ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the debate on the report of the Safety Research Council on forensic care. We have reached the deadline of the Minister for Legal Protection. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about two reports that appeared last week from the OVV and the joint inspections, reports on the detention course of Michael P., reports with harsh conclusions. The reports sketch a painful picture, first and foremost for Anne Faber's next of kin. They live every day with the grief and pain of her absence. After the terrible events of 2017 they now get this for their own good. Their anger and defeat must of course be enormous. That is why, before the reports went out last week, I apologized to them during a visit. The reports are also confronting the organisations that were responsible for Michael P. during his prison time and treatment. The government has failed to protect society, and that is hard for me. The question that lies on everyone's lips is whether Anne would still have lived if no mistakes had been made. That's a difficult question, and it gnaws at me, too. The reports do not answer that question. Of course, I understand that people think: if those mistakes had not been made, would Michael P. have walked freely at that time and in that place? Maybe. Probably not. But we sure as hell don't. And what would have happened if he hadn't walked around there, but had gone into treatment at another time and then got freedoms? These are tough questions. To the answers we can only guess. The answers the reports do give don't lie. They're hard conclusions. Mistakes have been made. The government has failed. In the treatment and rehabilitation of Michael P. in that treatment, there was too little regard for the risks and dangers to society associated with them. That shouldn't have happened. Mr. Chairman. I am responsible as a minister for the protection of society and I am politically responsible for everything that officials do, for everything that people do in organisations that I am responsible for, and also for what my predecessors have done. That is also one of the reasons why we never talk about human consequences here. You speak to me as a chamber. I feel that responsibility in every fiber. From day one, from the beginning, I knew that this was one of my most important tasks: to protect society from people like Michael P. I realize that no measure can be taken that can undo the terrible event of 2017, even though that is what we may all want most. But what we can do is show that we are doing everything we can to avoid repeating mistakes made. Let it be a tough lesson. Everyone understands that 100% safety cannot be guaranteed, but we must do everything in our power to ensure that the Netherlands is safe wherever you are, even in Den Dolder, even if you live in a municipality where there is a clinic. Mr. Chairman. Your room has asked numerous questions. I'd like to treat it like this. I believe that the questions can be grouped together along a number of themes. The first issues are about the wider issue, the comparison of this case and these reports with the cases of Philip O. and Bart van U. The other point, also in the wider issue, is the relationship between the shortcomings in Michael P.'s case and the discussion about finance and workload in forensic care. Then I would like to zoom in on the reports as such, starting with the approach of non-observatories, the discussion on tbs imposition. Then by going into the population screening. Excuse me, these two I turn around; so first the screening of the population and then the approach tbs. Then there is the debate on how to ensure that risks are and remain better seen. Then there is the debate on responsibilities: who makes what decision at what time? To conclude with the questions that have been asked about the provision of information to municipalities. I will always go into the questions that have been asked, looking back at exactly what has happened and where things have gone wrong, account for them. Then I will look forward to each topic: what measures do I want to take to avoid repeating mistakes in the future? Mr. Chairman. In the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	Before you go any further. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The introduction seems excellent to me, but I would like to know which block the medical information is covered by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	This is covered by the "risk in view" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. In the debate, almost all spokesmen made a comparison between the Michael P. case and two other serious incidents, namely the case of Bart van U. and the Philip O case. I understand that equation. These matters seem to be on the same themes as those highlighted in the reports on the course of Michael P.'s detention. These are themes such as safety and care and the interface, and themes such as information sharing and chain cooperation between different organisations. In addition, in all three cases we are dealing with very serious issues with terrible consequences. Cases in which the victims and their families were, in part, suffering horribly, even here today. It's things that have shocked society. At the same time, when you zoom in on the details, you can see that these things also differ substantially from each other in parts. The reports we are discussing today describe how things went wrong during the execution of a prison sentence and the treatment in a clinic if someone is in charge of the prison system. The report of the Hoekstra Committee on the Bart van U. case shows shortcomings prior to the execution of a sentence in the judicial proceedings of a forced admission under the BOPZ. These shortcomings therefore relate in particular to the execution of prison orders, the reduction of cell material and informing the BOPZ judge of any aspects of danger. These are all points where various measures and actions have already been taken which you have discussed in detail with my colleagues, the Minister for Justice and Security and with the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. In the Philip O case, it was someone who was released after his sentence. He stayed at the AMC in Amsterdam on the basis of a detention order followed by a judicial authorisation based on the BOPZ Act. This is a matter of civil law measures. On the basis of the BOPZ Act, decisions on treatment, but also on leave and dismissal, are made to the medical director of the establishment concerned, in this particular case of the hospital. However, it is necessary to examine the coherence between what has happened and the progress of the judicial process prior to O.Stay at the AMC. That is also the reason why the Justice and Security Inspectorate is currently conducting an investigation. The aim is to complete this research in the second quarter of 2019. I believe that, in the light of the final report of the Hoekstra Committee and the investigation of the Philip O. investigation, we should resume the debate in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then what are the important, cutting themes? I think it's important that we do everything we can to learn from mistakes made. Working in this sector is about working together. Collaboration involves sharing information and discussing responsibilities. In other words, it's human work. Where people work, mistakes can also be made. That cannot be justified, but it is not possible to exclude those mistakes. That is why it is so important to keep looking very seriously at the incidents that have occurred, as we are doing today on the Michael P case. But I think we should do that by default. If you want to learn from something, if you want to make improvements, if you want to avoid mistakes, I'm from the school that this starts with facing and accepting that things haven't gone well, in an open debate. I hope to have that with you today. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Nispen have asked me where the main concern lies. Where's the most important challenge, you might say. What are we supposed to be looking for? We're gonna talk about all kinds of measures later. I am glad to hear that there seems to be support for a large part of these measures on paper. But how do we ensure that this also lands in practice? I think that's very important. How do we ensure that the urgency of implementing measures remains high? The point is that we're not just scared today. In the coming months and years too, if these things are to be implemented, we must emphasise this double and cross-cuttingly. I would like to propose two things. I would like to inform you regularly, periodically, of the progress we are making in the measures proposed today. Let's discuss it here regularly and get it back. Then you can question me critically. The other point is the role of the OVV. Mrs Kuik, but also Mrs Van Toorenburg, suggested that the OVV should also look at Philip O.'s case. I find that a difficult one, because the inspections are now quite a long way off to complete this investigation, in the run-up to the summer. I also note that there are two reports in the Michael P. case which are very similar in substance. But I can ask the OVV to look at the cutting themes on the basis of these three cases. What are the lessons we need to learn about these individual incidents and terrible events? Where are the structural vulnerabilities? Because I think it's important that, in addition to learning from things that go terribly wrong, we get a lot more to the front, to recognize things before they go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	That research by the OVV to look at structural errors seems to me to be a good suggestion, also because I think the Minister's own analysis is too limited. In particular, he looks at the differences between the various issues, while I see, above all, systematic errors, in the area of information sharing and the transfer of responsibilities. To give you an example: Philip O. was in a judicial process. He never finished his measures. That never came up in his later criminal career. Besides, when Philip O. got out, he actually had to go to a forensic clinic, but it didn't happen because there was no place. So I would also like the Minister's confirmation that this really is a systematic error, that there are more similarities than differences and that this really requires a structural approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	I agree with Mrs. Chicken. There are differences between the different cases. Measures have also been taken on each of these cases. In the past, there was Bart's case with you. You know that the Hoekstra Committee reports on progress over and over again. But I also see these cutting themes. As you know, I cannot give orders to the OVV, because it determines its own agenda, but I can talk to the OVV to see what the cutting themes are and what the lessons we need to learn from all these individual issues and whether we can also be in favour of structural vulnerabilities at the intersection of justice and care, which is one of these themes. I'd rather have a discussion with you about vulnerabilities and things that aren't right before terrible things happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	Of course we agree on that, but it does start with the realization that something is really going on. The Hoekstra Committee is also not satisfied. They are extremely critical of the progress that is being made. And I also asked a question about the inspection report. I understand that the reports prepared by the AMC are not included in the inspection investigations. That means half an investigation and not a full investigation. That means half work again and maybe look away or hide away. Why isn't that taken directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	I think it is very important that it is taken. My colleague Mr Blokhuis has already informed you about the IGJ's report on the Philip O case. I myself was somewhat surprised by the fact that, where we are used to giving justice full disclosure of the reports and the things that have gone wrong, this is happening in health care in much more limited form, which has to do with medical professional secrecy. Now it is not the case that the OVV has more powers or looks at it in a different way than the inspection, but I would very much like to talk to my colleague Blokhuis and the IGJ about how we can ensure that when the safety side is examined, both parts can be fully debated. Once again, if things have gone wrong, whether on the justice side or on the care side, we must be open about it and learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	For the people listening: OVV is the Research Council for Security and IGJ is the Inspectorate for Health and Youth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	To conclude on this point, Mr President. We are happy to be informed about it or that is accessible to each other. There is no point in an inspection report unless all the information comes up. That's why I'm getting off to a critical start. When I hear that it is said of "there are not quite any similarities and there are a lot of differences," it feels like we are not taking it seriously and as if there are excuses to make some things less common than they are. And that can't be the intention. This is the momentum. The bottom stone has to be upstairs. There are systemic errors and they need to come to light, because that is the only way we can really move forward now and come up with real measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	I agree with Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	I think we will get further in the debate on these system errors. The Minister also said that it was a question of taking responsibility and ensuring that it landed in practice. Then he mentioned that we are going to discuss it periodically. I wonder how that is going to happen. In view of market forces, but in any case in view of the way in which we often discuss reports, it is about figures and settlement standards. How does the Minister intend to discuss with us periodically how responsibility is taken into account in forensic care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	What I have in mind is that we are going to talk about this later too, and that whole package of measures we are taking is on top of a number of other things that we have already started. I'm looking for a form to maintain urgency, and to speed up and keep pace. And I inform you every year, so that you can ask me about it and say, "You promised that this and this would be done, then and then. Why hasn't that happened yet?" Or that you say: "This measure has been introduced on paper, but has it actually landed in practice? Is it between the ears of the doctors and the selection staff?" So I am looking for a way that we can now have not only the debate here today in Parliament, but, as far as I am concerned, periodically, so that it comes back every time and so that we can monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u17	Yeah, I'm looking for that way, too. Because what we do not want is, of course, that new things are imposed and that they are only ticked off. We want, of course, to have a better view of how things are going in practice, because we have seen that it is sometimes lacking in that, in this case it has been very horrific. My question is, however, and at some point I would like a little more clarification from the Minister: how are we going to have a discussion here in this Parliament about how responsibility is actually taken? Otherwise we're gonna ask, and then the Minister says, "No, we're really gonna take responsibility." But what does that show?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u18	For example, what I am thinking about, but that is not yet fully crystallized, is that I am not just giving updates on what is going on with the implementation of measures and the regulatory adjustments that are needed in response to these reports, but that we are also asking someone outside for one or two years to do some kind of evaluation of compelling eyes. To those we say: "We have the reports of the OVV and the inspections in hand here. We've moved on for a while now. What's the situation?" This also gives us an independent opportunity to do so. I think that works well towards me and towards my people. Keeps the pressure on. That is one of the ways of holding on to that urgency, but that may also give you the confidence that the real progress is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u19	Just like the last thing the Minister says, I think that is a very valuable commitment. For in this case of Bart van U., too, we noticed that, in addition to the reports from the government, it was also very valuable that Hoekstra once again said: yes, that is what the Minister says, but this is not so easy in practice. So that's very important for our controlling role from the Chamber, too, I think. So I'd like to support it if he would report that to the Chamber in that way. I saw that the Research Council itself says: we would like to hear what has happened to our recommendations in a year's time. So maybe we can pool all of that, too. So at that point, as far as I am concerned, things are really going in the right direction. That also helps to keep the urgency in mind. But I also wanted to come back to another point of the Minister, namely to look again at these overarching or cross-cutting issues, as he called it. Hoekstra has actually said something about that in the Philip O case. He said, "There is one thing that is clear. That is that it always goes wrong when it comes to a good and timely exchange of information within justice and certainly between justice and care." So there is already a very clear theme. What could happen on this subject? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yeah, I see that. I also see that every crisis, every major and serious incident, leads us to find new vulnerabilities in this area of information. On the one hand, you can say that's part of what you see in those chains. At the intersections between organizations, at the places where cooperation is needed, where things have to be transferred and where you are talking about different responsibilities... who does exactly what? And about communication between organizations, you see that if things go wrong, this is actually one of the Achilles heels. What I would like to look at is that I could include in that proposal that I'm going to talk to the OVV about, about what we can do to draw some cutting lessons.... is much more what we can do in front of information to be ahead of things. Of course, I do not want things to go terribly wrong before something happens for once. Actually, I'd like to see what you can do out front. I see sectors where that happens. We do stress tests with banks, because we want to make sure they don't fall over when things go wrong. Why can't you do some kind of stress tests for the provision of information, for example at the intersection of justice and care, so that, before something terrible happens, you can see where the weaknesses are and so that you can fix them prematurely, where you can?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u21	That appeals to me, but can you do it a little sharper? Can the Minister say: I recognize that this is just a theme that we need to pick up and look at? How, for example, is it that information exchange does not take place because people think that this is not possible? Is that really true? Is that in those rules or not? I also made that point in an interruption to Mrs Van Toorenburg. Can we really look at that more broadly, so that we do not say in the Bart case of you: yes, but this is just another segment and another piece? Can we look at it in width now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u22	Absolutely. With these cutting themes this is probably with a dot at the top, just because it comes back every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u23	We're grateful to the mayor of Zeist for asking the OVV to prepare that report. I do feel that we are ignoring the fact that the OVV has looked at this matter very critically and systematically alongside the inspection. If the Minister speaks to the OVV, will he ask that not only those kinds of satreps are being used, but will he ask the OVV themselves to do so? I think there are many more similarities between Joost's horrible death on the subway and Anne Faber's death.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u24	I'm willing to do that. That also seems to me to be a better approach than asking whether the OVV is going to do that case specifically from a to z. I saw it on Michael P's case. I know that the OVV does this very autonomously and says: if we do something, we do it on our own, from the beginning to the end. That has lasted over a year in this case. I would like to weigh this up, also for the Philip O case: is it wise to take so much extra time, knowing that the inspections will come up with a report on this before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u25	That is good, if that question is made open to the OVV. Because it really shouldn't be, perhaps the Minister can verify that at the time of the inspection, that the inspection is only looking at that little piece of Justice, because there you might have probation stuff again that doesn't work. In addition, the health inspection of course only looked at the part of health care. Then you don't have the exchange Mr. Van der Staaij and I fight so hard all the time. It must therefore be a broad request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u26	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u27	It is right that we should look ahead to how we are going to ensure that things are really going to change, but I will start looking back now. Let me look at the parallels, which the Minister rightly mentions: a lack of cooperation between authorities, the risks not properly assessed, responsibilities not clear. That's what was going on in all these cases. And it is not, of course, that we did not think in those previous debates that something really needed to change. At that time it was also completely serious, for everyone, for both the Minister and the entire Chamber and for society as a whole. What's the big difference? Now that things have gone so horribly wrong this time, why are things really going to change? What gives the Minister himself that confidence that it is really going to change now, as everyone is asking repeatedly and explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u28	By taking serious measures, for starters. I'm shocked by the reports. We don't shove the mistakes under the carpet, but we draw lessons from it. And that also means concrete actions, including to improve information provision. The specific vulnerabilities surrounding risk assessments, around files going from A to B in prison to clinics, all need to be addressed. Mr Van Nispen's question goes even further. He says: this is a recurring theme. I agree with him. I would also like to look at what we can do to improve this information on many fronts, preferably before something terrible happens. That's what I'm going to do, including the D.A.'s office, to see if we can do some kind of analysis there. We should actually take some kind of cutting-edge themes that we say are vulnerabilities; if we know that, can we foresee that, can we be in favour of? At the same time, where there is cooperation between organisations, this is always one of the Achilles heels. Nobody is waiting for another serious incident, but if anything happens again, we are not waiting for it, but of course that opportunity is really present; we all know that this is one of the themes that will continue to return. That doesn't mean you shouldn't do anything about it. Nor does it mean that you should not try to be ahead of it, but it remains one of the vulnerabilities where there is a need for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u29	I would also like to look back at the role and responsibility of the Ministry. We have pointed out the recommendations made by, among other things, the Research Council. When you read them, they're so obvious and logical. I mention better risk assessment and better information sharing. It is that kind of self-evident thing that was not taken for granted, because it was simply not in order. I would like to ask the Minister: how can it be that all this time it was not known so urgently to the Ministry that it acted on it? Does the Minister have an analysis on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u30	The reports provide a good analysis of this, namely that there was a series, a series of errors that piled up and led, under the line, to a terrible derailment. In addition, it was partly in a blind spot that originated. At some point the emphasis was too much on care, too much on treatment, too much on resocialisation, in which the risks and dangers for society were actually overlooked. So that also has something to do with the question: are there sufficient safeguards and safety valves in the system that it is corrected when people make balancing or judgment errors? You yourself pointed out the point: is there enough time to do so in a careful way? I think that's very relevant. Are there enough checks, compelling eyes on the outside that look a bit off during a treatment? This case is painfully showing that there is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u31	Indeed, the Minister is now describing the analysis which can be read in the reports. I've seen that, too. However, I do not think that the Minister has given sufficient consideration to the role of the Ministry. Then let me make it concrete. We may come back to that point of privacy later. Since 2010 it has been warned by one person alone ten times at the Ministry that something was not right and that we would be missing information. Only one person has warned about this ten times since 2010. So the question was, and I ask it again: how can it be that such obvious shortcomings, risks that were known to the Ministry, have not been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u32	But here I'm gonna push back a little bit. It's not like they didn't face it. In fact, at the time of the terrible incident and the murder of Anne Faber, there were laws in the First Chamber that provided solutions to these structural bottlenecks. So there has also been work in recent years on legislation and regulation that also makes information provision easier and better. Only, in this case, that law was not yet there and we see that it has been one of the vulnerabilities that has led to that series of mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u33	The report, but also, in fact, many of the debates we have had here before and the input of the PVV, my group, actually shows that we have both a structural problem in the justice chain and in those treatment centres, as well as a cultural problem. I understand from the Minister's introduction that he does not want to do so much about this structural problem for a moment, other than progress reports and compelling eyes. But he doesn't want to say goodbye to the system of engagement that rules those clinics. So that's what we're gonna park. But now for the cultural problem. Because now the Minister also said something in his introduction that I have difficulty with, namely that we cannot discuss the human consequences in this matter here in the Chamber. And now we have a problem. If the Minister does not resign on his own, because he is standing here today, he has not yet resigned, must he at least send the responsible people, who are also responsible for this whole culture, directly out of the way? Why isn't that prison warden, who lied, kicked ass? Why wasn't the treating psychiatrist, who used the wrong treatment method on that Michael Panhuis? Why didn't you intervene and can't you share it with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. We have made good use of the fact that we are talking about things in this Parliament and that one person is ultimately responsible. I'm ministerially responsible for what happened and the mistakes that were made. I'm also responsible for the organization. It is not the officials who are responsible here. You must address me. That is also why I will never discuss any human consequences in debates with the Chamber. You must address me to what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u35	A mitigating circumstance for this minister is, of course, that Michael Panhuis struck before the minister took office. So ministerial responsibility, all well and good, I could address you, but I would like to address you on your own actions, as well as on your own actions. If you cannot share with the Chamber what measures you are taking to at least that culture that prevails, that is the culture you quoted just as well in your reply to Mr Van Nispen where so resocialization outweighs the security of society... So if you don't tackle that culture, at least you can't prove to us that you're gonna take it up and take it up and take it up, how can I weigh whether you're gonna stay in your place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u36	That's another question. That is: what are you going to do to restore that balance between treatment and care on the one hand and safety on the other? The balance that has been lost is shown by these reports. I'm definitely gonna do something about that. Two things. Firstly, the measures we are proposing. Better checks, more risks in the picture, the careful steps to be taken when freedoms are granted, that you have the full picture and can also make a good assessment of those risks. They also provide a correction in culture. The risk awareness will increase. But that's not the only thing. We not only take measures in the structure, in regulations, in procedures, we also need to think about what you can do in your assumption policy, in your training, in the training of people. Last summer, 2018, I made extra money for this. I have sat around the table with the forensic sector and said that we need to make more money, including for better personnel policy, for recruitment, for attracting good people, with greater attention to safety and the risks. So that's definitely something I'm working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u37	I must disagree with the Minister, and I must warn him. If the Minister does not address culture, not the responsible people who have proven to have failed, not only failed, have also lied in this file, have also lied to the Minister, and therefore the Minister has misinformed the Chamber... If you do not tackle this culture, and you can only do so by firing those people, then unfortunately we will be back here again. Paper's patient. You can have the OVV examined until they weigh us, you can look sharp yourself, you can have 100 compelling eyes at all those agencies that work under you. But as long as you don't take care of the people responsible, kick ass and never let them work under your responsibility again, you're not gonna solve anything. And unfortunately, unfortunately, we're standing, I hope I'm wrong, but probably I'll be right here again, because another innocent person has been murdered or raped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u38	I leave the qualifications on Mr Markuszower's behalf, and we also disagree on the measures. I agree with him that not only do you have to stare blindly at measures, rules, structures and systems, but also think about how to take care of the good people and how to take the cultural dimension into account. This has to do with assumptions and that has to do with training and training. And that's something we're definitely doing something about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u39	I would like to ask the Minister what has happened to the conclusions of the study Weighed risk of the rapporteur on trafficking in human beings and sexual violence. Already in February 2017, it is concluded that the risk assessment of sex offenders in the Dutch system does not take place according to the best predictive method. So we don't know well enough how relapsed a sex offender is, while there are methods available that better predict. I am very curious to see what happened to those conclusions at the Ministry and perhaps even when the Minister himself took office in October 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u40	You received a response from me on 5 March 2018. There are some of the things we've done, too. For example, the NIFP has identified the SSA, which is one of those instruments, as a standard risk assessment tool for all sex cases. The behavioral experts at the NIFP who have to do these indications are also trained on this. Also due to the probation, the SSA is now taken as standard by sex offenders and it is also included in the opinions. The employees are also trained for this. I announced in my letter of 5 March 2018 that the measures to be implemented in the first half of 2018 will be evaluated after one year. The evaluation is now delayed, because the probation has started a little later with these instruments and I want to see what their effects are. I think I can send it to you in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u41	There is a serious problem in this answer, namely that I suspect that not much has been done at the beginning. Those conclusions were harsh and crystal clear. I find it really remarkable that it is being pushed forward and that we have a response a year and a month later announcing measures. I would also ask the Minister to see whether we should not have done so earlier and whether we have not deliberately endangered the society he was talking about and about which he said we did not adequately protect it. Could it have been better if the risks had been better assessed in the beginning and acted accordingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u42	Apart from the broader discussions that the National Rapporteur is doing towards the Public Prosecutor's Office and towards the NIFP and the probation, we must of course note in the report on Michael P. that if things had been done there, if, for example, those risk assessments on the index crime had been mandatory, there would not have been the mistakes that the reports now detect. But that is also why I am taking real action now. In practice, we are seeing an increasing number of risk assessments being carried out. That's a good thing. That is also a field that is developing; there can be more and more scientifically. There is also more and more work on it, but it has always been done on the basis of the individual assessment of a handler. He says: I need one of those valuation tools to complete my image. We now see in the case of Michael P. that it would have been good not to let that be optional, but to make it mandatory, because you have that blind spot somehow... then you can always think cross-eyed, huh. If a handler thinks in a manner of speaking "this is aggression" or "that his behavioral problems".................................................................................................. If you had applied sex instruments to that, it might have given you a different picture. It is the reason why I propose this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u43	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u44	I very much welcome most of the Minister's proposals. I'm still looking. The reports from the inspection and from the OVV are hardcore. We already knew some of the conclusions, some of the assumptions and some of the recommendations. There has simply been no proper action between the publication of the report and the transfer of the cabinet and the appointment of another ministry. I don't know why, but it's just moved forward. I am left with the question: could we have prevented things if we had been more alert to the results of the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u45	My observation is no. The reports of both the OVV and the inspection really show new things. Both bodies have vetted the entire case of Michael P. from a to z with a whole team of researchers. This brings new vulnerabilities to light. I haven't been idle for a year and a half. We've done an incredible amount at the fpa and in a policy sense. The things I now read in the report are partly new to me, hence the additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u46	I try to listen very carefully, Madam President, but I keep hearing the same thing: things have gone wrong and we are going to improve it in the future. I'm left with the question whether it really, really, really couldn't have happened sooner. You've been there a lot longer. This isn't good to talk about with "we're gonna do better in the future"? It should have been better now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u47	I understand the question very well, but I knew from the beginning that this would be one of the biggest things. I've really looked at what we can do from the beginning, based on the ever-new information we get. When it happened in Den Dolder, all sorts of measures were taken immediately at the fpa. The inspection was on top of it and measures have been enforced. The population there has been vetted. A number of people have been removed and no serious cases have been sent in the meantime. We have also said, more broadly, genericly, that we are going to tighten up certain procedures in relation to the transfer of prisoners from the prison system to clinics. We also said that we need to speed up some of the laws that we have in the pipeline. One of the first laws I passed across the Upper House was the Forensic Care Act. That law is going to remove some of the bottlenecks that have now been identified. We've done more things. I would like to draw attention to the approach to non-observatories and to alleviating the financial pressure in the forensic sector, precisely because I was afraid that it would be detrimental to safety in the sector if we allowed the situation to continue. Now there are two reports that really show new things on parts. I've taken immediate action since I got those reports. It is not that we could have known everything in those reports a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u48	The Minister admits that his hands were itching a lot earlier. That's nice, but why didn't he yell off the roofs what went wrong? Why didn't he punch the fist on the table then? I understand he says he has to wait for the First Chamber, but this is about the safety of society. We're talking about people's lives here. Then you wait for nothing or no one? Don't you get so pissed off that you're taking measures at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u49	Totally. That is why I welcome the support you expressed at the time. What we quickly realized is that Michael P., for example, effectively avoided his tbs by refusing to cooperate in an investigation. That's what it all started with. I didn't sit still for a minute not to do anything about it. The first law helped. In the middle of last year, we submitted a whole package of measures to the Chamber. This has been widely endorsed. I believe that this was because everyone saw the urgency of these measures, given what had happened to Anne Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u50	I followed the debate and I think it started a bit with the question that the Minister rightly asks: how do you ensure urgency in the implementation of the measures? I think that's a very important question. A number of colleagues have asked questions about this. I hear a number of elements. The Minister will periodically inform the Chamber; fine. The Minister would like the Research Council to make a cross-section of the problem; I also understand. He points to the money. But I think that all of this is a bit about the question that the Minister himself is asking. I am looking at the past, at the Bart case of you. Mrs. Kuik pointed that out as well. In that debate, Minister Van der Steur said: I promise to get better and come up with measures. Then I will take up Mr Hoekstra's report from August, in which he says: I have not found that there is any urgency in the implementation of these intentions. My question to the Minister is very brief: how can it be that in his department, or at least in the departments of his department, that sense of urgency is lacking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u51	You have also discussed this in detail with my colleague, who has the lead in this. I don't know if he fully shared that there's a lack of urgency. In any case, I note that the urgency is there. That will really apply to the other case. No one wants this kind of horrible thing to happen again. It's about human work and everyone understands that we can't guarantee 100% security, but we have to do everything we can to prevent this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u52	Is the Minister saying that he does not really agree with what Mr Hoekstra is saying and what I think we find with several colleagues, namely that we do not have a sense of urgency as far as we are concerned? I think that is the outcome of the debate. Or does the Minister share that conclusion, but does he say that this time he's really going to do something completely different and that this time he's going to be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u53	With me there is no need for urgency, nor with my people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u54	Then the only conclusion of this debate is that, in my view, it makes it a little uncomfortable that the Minister refers to another package of measures and that we in the Chamber should trust that this time this urgency is behind it, while the past does not show very much positive in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u55	You can take care of what I'm gonna do. I said: it is one of the most important tasks of my ministry to protect society, to protect people from figures like Michael P. I think you have seen that, in the last nearly one and a half years I have been here, I have also taken substantial steps. With what I promise to do today, I really want to get to work. I just want to finish this job. It's my honor to let this go to waste. But keep me sharp. If you have the impression that there is not enough urgency, call me to the Chamber. But I know how I'm in it. I am motivated to put pace behind this and to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u56	That is precisely the key question, because the Minister began by saying: I feel in my fibers that this must be done. Then the driver came up in him, who said: they may be incidents, it is still human work, and I have already taken these measures. It felt as if there was irritation, as if there was only defense, when we needed that sense of urgency with each other. At the end of this debate, we must have the confidence that every fibre feels that this is a structural problem, that this is not yesterday's problem, that this problem requires immediate solutions. If we continue the debate in a game of defense and do not feel that it is a mentality problem, a cultural problem, an urgency problem, then this debate is actually pointless. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u57	I am fully aware of this and I am going to make sure that the organisations for which I am responsible are really getting to the point of turning the things I am proposing into concrete measures and concrete actions. I don't want us to have another repeat of moves, I don't want those mistakes to repeat themselves. That takes a lot: the things that we have already started, but also the things that we are going to start to do by adapting legislation and regulations. I hope that together we will be able to keep the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u58	I am also going to listen to the answers we are about to receive to questions on specific issues. Then I simply want the recognition where the mistakes were made, where things should have been different and what will happen in the short term. Because it's not just a matter of human error. If that had been the case, we wouldn't be here. It happened not only in the case of Anne Faber, but also in the case of Joost Wolters, Els Borst and all the other people we are not discussing by name, but who have also become victims of a system that we want to improve with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u59	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u60	The minister says he wants to do everything he can to prevent similar horrible murders in the future. But what I don't understand is the story of Joost Wolters' family, which I heard with Jinek last night. Apparently, that family really wants information. There have been WOB requests and the family's attorney will get back a piece in which everything has been wiped out. Actually, there's gonna be a piece you can't do anything with. For example, the name of the body that failed in that case will be wiped out. If the Minister wants to do everything in his power to prevent similar cases in the future, I do not understand that essential information is being wiped out. Because in a culture in which everything is decided, you cannot, of course, discuss with the Chamber, Ministry and family what really happened and how that can be prevented in the future. You can now answer directly to the question as to which authority failed in that case. The Wolters are here, waiting for that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u62	And why did your ministry get rid of all that information? Why aren't we just being honest about what went wrong under your responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u63	I have already said something about the IGJ, which belongs to my colleague from VWS. I note that there is different work there than in the case of the Justice Department; that is what I am talking about. What happened in the case of WOB requests, for example, that names of individuals are painted away, does not mean that I do not think that the bottom stone should come up. Because that is the case. That is also one of the reasons I have said together with my colleague: this is also something that the Justice and Security Inspectorate should investigate, precisely in order to get that bottom line out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u64	According to my information, not only names of individuals have been erased, but also the name of the failing instance. That also rhymes with the story we understood from the OVV report, namely that Den Dolder did not want to cooperate with the investigation at all, wanted to water down the conclusions and also did arrogantly against the OVV. Once again, we have a cultural problem, but I think we also have a problem with the Minister, who does not now promise that he will simply give up that information that has now been wiped out, and that he will publicly tell us who has failed there, and in particular which body. Then we can all do something about it. If you keep it a secret, there's nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u65	It must be clear where mistakes were made in the Philip O. case. Which instance failed and where exactly? That's exactly why I asked the inspection to do that investigation. But that investigation is still ongoing. Of course there are important questions. I'm also watching how it happened and exactly what's going on. But I think that should be properly investigated. That's exactly why we're getting that investigation done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u66	Last short question: can you now promise that tomorrow a new piece will go to the Wolters family, in which at least the painted-off body will be released? 'Cause that's what that family's asking, and I think that's the least you can do for that family.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u67	I do not know the document to which Mr Markuszower refers. What matters to me is that I believe that the bottom line in this matter too should be clear where the mistakes have been made, at which authorities. There can be no discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u68	I think that because the Minister has had contact with Anne Faber's family, he can also get in touch with Joost's family to find out where the pain is with regard to the document. I think the Minister can do very well. Then he can also make sure that the document is finally unlocked when the investigation is done. I just want to get back to what the minister said. He said he's doing everything he can and that there's every urgency. I can see that, too. I can see it from all the steps that have been taken; I've figured it out. But what I don't understand is how it is that the scheme for the reluctant observers isn't ready yet. I think the President also remembers: it is almost ten years since we had a father here in the Chamber on the initiative of Mrs Helder and myself. And we're still not ready to have that arrangement? I can't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u69	That arrangement must be carefully made. The fact that it takes longer has also to do with a very explicit request from the First Chamber to involve the Chairman of the Advisory Committee in the development of the scheme. The chairman was recruited after the legislative proposal was adopted. The scheme was then made. We have been asked to put this informally. This means that it comes to the Chamber before it is submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. As far as we're concerned, we're really moving forward. You can also have a significant role in this, namely that we treat it quickly when it comes here. But it's not a question of non-violence. It only takes time to do it carefully and to honour the commitments I had to make to the First Chamber, namely to build in some additional safeguards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u70	Then I think we should get the proposal as soon as possible so that we can deal with it directly. Our President can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u71	It's not gonna be that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u72	I'm sure it's not that. Can the Minister give us any insight into a date on which we can expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u73	I expect the draft decision to come to you in May. If it can then be dealt with quickly, I expect the committee to be able to start on 1 September this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u74	Then we have something to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u75	When we read the reactions of next of kin, I notice that next of kin are looking for and asking not only the measures we are taking but also their application by the people involved, the people who are actually working on our behalf for the return of people to society. The question they are asking is not just about reports and debates, but about getting out of here and working on change for the people in the workplace. If that's what you want, you're gonna have to put the people in the workplace in position, too. I asked a question about, for example, the financing of the intake in a clinic like that in Den Dolder. Would the Minister like to answer the question I asked about this? Is he planning on doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u76	I think that's a very good question. It is also immediately a bridge to the next issue that I would like to address, namely the question, regardless of relationship and comparison between different cases, whether there is a link with, for example, the pressure on funding and the financing system. Maybe you'll allow me to take that on my next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u77	Certainly I will allow you to do so. I would also like to put a follow-up question to it. I think it would be a good idea, in the report you intend to send to the Chamber, to address the question of how the staff respond to the measures you are going to take in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u78	Sure. Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that several Members of Parliament have the question of whether there is a relationship between shortcomings in the Michael P case and the finances, or the possible lack thereof, and the workload in forensic care. Let's say forensic care is human work. This means that people must also be able and able to carry out their work and the considerations they need to make carefully and carefully. The reports show that the focus was too one-sided on care and socialisation, with a blind spot emerging for the risks and dangers to society. The OVV speaks of a culture of care, while prisoners in forensic care, of course, also serve a sentence. Forensic sharpness and safeguards in the system to detect errors earlier were missed. When I look at the relationship with finance and with workload, I see that the reports do not explicitly explain this relationship, but that is without prejudice to the fact that several spokesmen rightly point to the high workload in the sector. I have already noticed this myself in connection with the survey of AEF and the inspections last summer. Several problems were identified, such as human shortages, also due to a tense labour market. It's just really hard to attract and hold good staff. Financial pressure and high administrative burdens were also noted. So these themes cannot be separated from this issue of workload. I have done a number of things on these points. Last summer, with the multi-annual agreement, I allocated a small amount of EUR 30 million, precisely in order to provide some relief. In addition, a new funding system is being investigated by the Dutch Healthcare Authority. Mr Drost also asked for this. My ministry is also involved in this. So it's not just a VWS issue. For example, it is referred to that the intake would not be in the funding. We have asked: take that with you and see if you can give that kind of parts a place in it. I will therefore ask the NZa to ensure that this possibility is properly developed in the development of the new funding system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u79	Was this the issue of finance and workload?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u81	Then I'll go to Mr. Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u82	Several colleagues, but at least myself, have pointed out the importance of a warm transfer, in which you not only send an e-mail but also sit together. I hear the Minister say that the reports do not explicitly establish the relationship between the problems identified and the workload. But then I'll look into the inspection report. On page 68, it says explicitly: "PPC Vught chooses not to include the treatment coordinators because of the workload." To be honest, I cannot follow the Minister's answer very well, because in my view, these reports do make that relationship explicit on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u83	I think that Mr Groothuizen is right here and that, of course, it has a relationship, but it is not the main theme in the report. The OVV says there was too much focus on treatment and rehabilitation. The risks were out of the picture and there was too much of a culture of concern, while here they were also people who were serving a sentence. Of course, there is also a relationship with the workload. I think that this is perhaps a very specific point where this may come up, but it is not the case that the main conclusions in both reports say that the main cause of what has happened here has been a lack of money. That really had to do with other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u84	If I look at this case and look at the discussions we have on justice and security more and more, I feel that there are a lot of people working in this sector who feel that they can no longer do the work in the way they would like to do it. My question to the Minister is actually: do you acknowledge that and do you see that there may also be a relationship with this case and that people simply can't show the professionalism they really want? That broader, wider professionalism might not be everything but would help a lot in the goal we pursue with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u85	Sure I can see that. That was also the reason for me last year to pay extra money, precisely to give a little more financial air with those rates, including for the other forensic care we are talking about today, the FPAs and the FPKs, so that there is room for this kind of thing. I can see that for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u86	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u87	That's profit. I'm glad the Minister can see that, too. I think it's more than just money, by the way. I think it is also about bureaucracy, appreciation, the feeling that you are making a very important contribution, or that it is a very complicated job, and that is precisely from the department, because that would be my appeal to the minister, not on things that sound beautiful, tough or decisive, but on the perfect execution of the core tasks that lie ahead. That, I believe, is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u88	I'll tell you what! I have asked Bas Eenhoorn, who has a lot of knowledge in the field of forensic care, to lead a joint task force of the Ministry and GGZ Netherlands to monitor progress on this. There are actually three important parts. 1. Ensure a good labour market campaign: how do you make forensic care attractive to students, to good people? 2. What can you do about training programmes, for example in the field of safety? Then you can do something about that culture issue. 3. What can you do to reduce the administrative burden? They're just too high now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mr Markuszower, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u90	In the question put by Mr Groothuis of D66 and the answer given by the Minister, it seems that money has caused the director of the prison in Vught to lie, but that is not being appointed at all. It's just being said, there wasn't enough money, so he had to push that Panhuis towards a clinic. That's not my analysis. My analysis is that the warden lied. He made a very warm recommendation to Den Dolder, in writing, while Panhuis had just committed crimes in prison. So my question is: are we going to throw it at money or are we going to go hard on the prison director who lied and cheated under your responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u91	Then you also asked in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u92	But now all of a sudden it's being thrown on money. Then it's even easier for that prison warden to get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u93	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u94	It's in my eyes and-and. If we want to improve forensic care, it is not just a matter of money. I just tried to make that clear. When I look at the reports, a number of parts do raise workload, but that is not the main feature of the story. On the other hand, I do not want to say that there is no relationship at all. If people don't have time to do their job, to carefully weigh it up, and if it's too hasty, the risk of mistakes is also greater. So I want to do both. That's why extra money went to the sector last year, but that's not the whole story. On top of that, we must also take additional measures, and I sent them to you last week in the letter in response to these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u95	Too much emphasis is being placed on the fact that mistakes have been made. Can the Minister give a value judgment on the lying letter the prison director wrote to Den Dolder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u96	Those are your qualifications. I am going to go into more detail about the information and risk provision. Mistakes were made there. That is also noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u97	I find the Minister's response to this important point really disappointing and far too defensive. The Minister may say that it does not appear explicitly from the reports, no, but there were previous reports which already stated that there are staff shortages, the workload is too high and there is far too much bureaucracy. It is obvious that safety is human work. So if we are going to ask employees to better assess the risks, to share the files better and to ensure that they recognise the prisoners and know exactly when a responsible person can start working on freedoms again, it is obvious that it will not help if you have stacks of files next to you that you still have to deal with in good time? Isn't it obvious that labour pressure and staff shortages play a role here? "The staff is tired and loses their trust. We are daily working to make the Netherlands safe, but are treated like the drain," a member of staff from a prison wrote to me. Someone from the forensic clinic we're talking about here, Den Dolder, writes: "It's just really been gambling with safety. As long as it goes well, we save money." This is the feeling that lives among employees. I find it disappointing what the Minister has said about this today, but above all that he has barely responded to it in his policy response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u98	I hope to meet Mr Van Nispen by indicating at the very beginning of my speech that, where we are about to go into the depths of the conclusions in the report, there is, of course, a relationship with the workload in general. It is not the main theme of what the reports conclude, but it is the context in which it happens. I have already seen this in relation to other reports, and I have also taken measures. Last year I made specific funds available for this purpose. So yes, this is a matter of concern. But, yeah, I acted on that, too. I just want to prevent us from narrowing this down to a discussion about only money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u99	Before there are any misunderstandings here, because Mr Markuszower tried to do the same: no one here says that money can solve all the problems. I just want to prevent the Minister from saying: we come up with new laws, protocols and even more rules and that solves the problems. 'Cause that's not how it is, of course. Yeah, it's both. So let's not pretend that someone here says that with a bag of money everything can be fixed. It's not, because with a bag of money, you don't have penitentiary edge yet. Everyone has to solve it and everyone has to take responsibility, but we cannot deny that there is also an important role to play in the austerity of the past. It amounted to 80 million, just forensic care. And I am not talking about ggz-breed or about the cuts in prisons. Indeed, the Minister acknowledges that 28 million has come back for this. Of course, that's out of proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u100	Well, that did bring relief. We have agreed with GGZ Nederland that this has been a very important step. And then I actually taste less of a difference between Mr Van Nispen and myself, because we both say it's en-en. Then maybe it's still in the measure, because he says, "Turn it all back." My view is that, with the 30 million extra allocated last year, we will be able to really work in the near future to reduce the workload combined with a number of non-financial measures that can contribute to this, such as reducing administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u101	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u102	The question is, however, when will the staff in the prisons be aware of this, because that is not about the 30 million. The shortage of staff in forensic care is actually only getting worse, so there is not yet the relief that we would really like to see. And when I see jobs today on the Fivoor site where students are sought to help in the summer months to treat tbs, I am very worried. I can't imagine the Minister doesn't share those concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u103	I believe that there should be well-qualified staff on people who are at risk to our society. I have also sent you the inspection report on the improvements that have been made in Den Dolder, which show that the fixed workforce is back on its feet. As far as I'm concerned, that's the way it's supposed to be in every clinic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u104	The minister mentioned the NZa's investigation into finance. I wonder whether, in this investigation or elsewhere, what is the reason why people are increasingly being placed in the fpa's, in the very lightly secured departments, rather than in the heavier departments? In my opinion, these are soon more expensive departments. So how is it explained that there are more and more people going to these lighter-protected FPAs, whose whole purpose is resocialization and where they are actually already coming out of the walls, because the work and living are not in the same building? What is the reason why the fpas are increasingly used? Does that have a financial reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u105	Fpas are forensic...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u106	Forensic psychiatric wards. They have a lighter security regime than, for example, the forensic psychiatric clinics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u107	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u108	We actually have three levels, Mr. Chairman. The fpcs are the tbs settings with the highest security measures. They are the most intensive and also the most valuable. The middle category are the fpk's, and the lowest are the fpa's, where Michael P. was. I'm from the school: hard where we have to go, we also have the heavy regime for..................................................................................................................................................................................................... What we have seen here is that due to all kinds of mistakes, there was someone at great risk in a too light regime. I understand Mrs Buitenweg's point. She says that errors of assessment have been made and that may be an explanation, but are there no perverse incentives in the system? In the funding system that the NZa is now developing, including forensic care, I will at least be very keen on that. They can't exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u109	Yeah, because it's not an incident. It's not like only Michael P. is there. It is structural; we saw that last year in the Forensic Concerns report. The number of patients in the fpas is really increasing. So I'm glad this is included. I hope that there will be an explicit response from the Minister, however it may turn out, so that we can really see why the FPAs are increasing the heavy population.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u111	I'm gonna keep going at this point. As a result of the debate we are having today, of course more people are expressing themselves in forensic care. They say that they are sometimes deliberately not informed, for example because a patient or a prisoner needs four men to be able to guarantee safety. Then one person does that, and then they'll find out later that the transfer didn't go well. When they are complete, they also know that an inmate cannot be placed in a clinic because, for example, the people do not have it. Did this consideration perhaps also play in the transfer of the PI Vught to the clinic in Den Dolder? Maybe they deliberately withheld information because otherwise Michael P. wouldn't be placed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u112	I understand the question very well. If that had happened, it would have been very reprehensible, but I do not read it back in the report. I really see in the report that there has been a series of errors of assessment and that there was not some kind of malicious intent to tell only half of the story so that he would be accepted there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u113	Then I'm gonna have to take that for this case. At the same time, I can hear those sounds from other forensic health clinics. That is why it is important in this broader view that this is really taken into account. Are conscious choices sometimes made not to share information because you know you don't get someone posted when you want to lose someone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u114	Let me be clear. I will be incredibly keen on this because it completely undermines my whole philosophy of ensuring that you always have risks throughout the chain. Because then two things happen. You then withhold information necessary for the treatment. Two. Someone comes into a lighter regime than would be good for the inmate. Mrs Kuik really can be sure that I will also be keen that this is not going to happen, but on the basis of the reports I do not have the reason to assume that this would be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u115	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u116	Finally, Mr President. Many people in the forensic care that I speak are partly angry because sometimes harsh words are uttered around the harsh reports that have now appeared and at the same time they all realize the analyses that are being done in them. That tells me two things. They're just as worried and they don't feel free to express themselves. So we really need a change in culture and mentality. I would like to challenge the Minister, in the sense of how we are going to ensure that people dare to speak, so that instead of not wanting to cooperate in research, we are now saying: this is the time for open doors, open shutters, this really has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u117	I can't agree more with Mrs. Chicken. I hope that this debate, too, is an example of being honest about the things that have gone wrong. Many questions have been asked about Fivoor's preparation, even at the time of the investigation, about the people who were escorted to the interviews that have taken place and about lists of corrections to the report of the OVV. This also shows that at least at this institution there is still something to gain from an open culture where you admit mistakes. Not to saber people down, but to learn from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u118	However, I would suggest that the Minister move forward now, because he has a list of subjects that he still has to discuss. He is now standing here for almost an hour and a half, of which he has actually spoken for fifteen minutes and has only responded to interruptions for the rest. So I'd like to give the Minister some space to answer the questions you asked in the first term. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr. Chairman. Then we'll actually get to the case ourselves. I would like to raise the issue of the screening because there was also an urgent question as to whether the information that was available at the time was sufficient to take action at any time. Questions have been asked about the 24 detainees, whose freedoms have been revoked or suspended. Why the recent screening of the current population? The reports clearly show that the balance between treatment and safety had gone too far towards treatment and that measures were therefore needed. We are talking about the total number of measures, but there were a number of very vital things in it, for example, that I now propose that a validated risk assessment should always be made on the index of offences. Another example is that I have decided to withdraw the freedoms of detainees placed under Article 15.5 of the Penitentiary Principles Act. This had to do with all the uncertainties that had grown between the two titles for placements. I also sent you a letter yesterday to show you how that went. There were growing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u120	Please continue. I just said I'm the minister... No, no, no, Mrs. Chicken!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u121	I have a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u122	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would nevertheless like to give the Minister the opportunity to conclude his point. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to finish this issue. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. I can hear you say everything outside the microphone, but you do not have the floor at all, Mrs Kuik. I'll give the Minister the floor. You'll have an opportunity to ask your question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u123	This is a matter of: take the urgent first or take the measures first. I have no objection to briefly zooming in on the measures, going through them from start to finish, and then focusing on the question of why we carried out these checks. I myself had the impression that that was urgent for you and that you wanted to know, Mrs Kuik, but I do not mind turning that around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u124	I just want there to be that screening...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mrs. Chicken! You'll have the floor. You're not taking the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u126	I do want that check, but above all I want to know how that check was carried out and I want to answer the questions that have been asked. And then I would like to talk about what measures the Minister has taken, because now it was again the flight forward. That was my very polite request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u127	Then I'm gonna go on with what I wanted to tell you. Look, we did that screening because at some point, following these reports, we came to the conclusion that additional measures were needed. When that was clear to us, and with the draft reports in hand, we had also formed an image for ourselves of what measures it should be, of course, we also wondered: but if you are going to do so on the future transfers from prison to treatment, how does that relate to those who are sitting there now? That's why we did that sweep. That is what we have done with some of the measures. We're gonna go a little deeper on that. But that means that, following that package of measures, I have said: I want to put all the detainees who have been placed on the two legal titles, 15.5 and 43.3, past that review framework. That was not because I had specific signals that there was a particular danger from this group. But I wanted to make sure. I wanted to rule out people like that being in the middle of it. Moreover, I have had the opportunity to ascertain whether incidents have occurred during the last 18 months during the freedoms of these titles within the heavier category of detainees, and that is not the case. But for me, that was the reason I did the population screening. That led us to say for all the prisoners who were under Title 15.5: with the new measures in hand, we believe that they should only start their freedoms at a later date, and so we have withdrawn those freedoms. So they still get treatment, but no longer with freedoms. And with that group under Title 43.3, where those freedoms were originally meant in the legal titles, namely treatment for rehabilitation, we started looking at the dossiers. Are they complete? Has there been a recent risk assessment on the index crime for all these cases? Have all process steps been carefully completed? And where that was not the case, we said: we are suspending freedoms there until it is in order. And I also expect that when it is put in order, the majority of these cases can go on with the treatment and the freedoms associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u128	Was this the subject of population screening? Did you answer all the questions raised by the Members of Parliament in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u129	No, there are two more questions about this. One is Mr Van der Staaij's question: did this screening put an end to the too easy granting of freedoms? The answer to that is a definite yes. No more freedoms will be granted when Article 15 (5) is placed. For example, there was a lack of clarity as to who should decide on this issue. The reports also reveal a lack of clarity towards the Public Prosecutor's Office, namely that the Public Prosecutor did not know whether it was giving advice on the treatment or on freedoms. These uncertainties are avoided if you go back to the original meaning of Article 15.5: this is meant for treatment, but not with freedoms. That is better guaranteed in the other legal basis, Article 43.3. I have now said: you must always have a hard advice from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the probation and, in the case of re-socialization, in the case of the freedoms introduced, there must also be probation supervision. The second question was from Mrs Van Kooten. She asked: have you looked retroactively at those who have ever been in FPAs? We have not done so, because they are people who have now been poured out and whose punishment has now come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u130	There are still a number of questions open. One: why wasn't that screening done before? Already after Bart van U., after Philip O., after Michael P., we knew there was a flaw in the screening here. This has been reflected in every debate, including in the mid-term debates. So why wasn't that done before? Two: how large has the population covered by those two categories that you have checked? At least those questions were still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u131	We started to do that screening when we saw on the basis of the reports that there were vulnerabilities in it. Then we introduced new measures, which we then stopped against this population. It was only with the new insights these reports provide that we could do that screening. It was also important to think about the new review framework: what is that, what are those measures that you want to take on everyone? In the past, for example, such a risk assessment was not mandatory. That's what we want to change now. That means that where that valuation did not take place, you must take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u132	Yeah, but I'm surprised, because we knew a year and a half ago that screening hadn't gone well. I am therefore very surprised that it took you two months to publish that report, in which you were consulted, before you started to do those risk assessments. Why wait so long? Because this was known. It has also been discussed in the debates. This isn't new, this isn't from the reports, we knew this before. Then why haven't those risk assessments been done before? What risks have we been exposed to? You say there have been no incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u133	Indeed, I have had the latter checked; I have to say that. I don't know what risks we've been exposed to. That also depends on the additional review we are doing now. I want that in order to be sure. It's a precaution. Mr. President, let's go back. Mrs. Kuik says we already knew that screening wasn't in order, but I'm really getting new things from these reports. If I'd known this before, I'd have done that check before. Risks were associated with the practice as it had grown. The growing practice, in which the two legal titles were glued against each other, was a formalized practice. This is described in detail in the reports by the inspections. There were even directives on it, with the best intentions. It was said that in some people you need not twelve, but eighteen months to make sure that a treatment is effective. This report now seems to contain enormous vulnerabilities, because this has led to uncertainties. These uncertainties have only just become so impregnating with the reports that are on the table. Well, that has prompted me to take additional measures. And then I put the sitting population against that measuring bar. So what is it really about? Then we are talking about 28 people who were under the title 15.5 of whom 15 had no freedoms, so there was nothing going on there, but 13 did. We moved it in. This concerns 53 persons who were under the heading 43.3 and 11 found that, for example, a risk assessment was missing or not all process steps had been properly completed. They may not have been mandatory at the time, but they are now with what I am going to propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u134	With the number mentioned by the Minister, I am not reaching the 120 people Mr Joustra was talking about. So I'd like another explanation of what that hole is in. But I cannot escape the impression that you say: now we felt the pressing need. This is not the first murder, this is not the first horrible event that led us to see that steps had been taken in which screening was not in order. This raises the question of whether the urgency is sufficiently felt. We shouldn't just let it depend on final reports. At any time such a thing occurs, you must take immediate action. And that's for later, too. All these recommendations are taken on board. Is the Commission aware that it is also necessary to do so in the very short term? I'm rounding up. That pressing necessity was there a year and a half ago. It was there almost two years ago. Why wasn't it felt before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u135	I've always felt the need to do what with the information we had at some point. Despite the similarities between the various points raised by Mrs Kuik, which I have said I would like to look more closely at, one cannot say, for example, with regard to the Bart van U.: you should have known that things were not right here. It was on the intersection of justice and care, but it really had something to do with something other than the relocation of a prison to a clinic. We took immediate action at that clinic after the event in Den Dolder. We also screened the population there. The inspection also showed that it wasn't in order at the clinic. Then we took precautions, broad and generic, when it comes to tightening up the procedures of relocation. We've taken different policies. Now there are reports showing new vulnerabilities. This also leads to a complement, to new measures. That is why we have now put the current population against this measure of new measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u136	The Minister says: I really didn't know it before and once I knew it, I acted. Well, I guess so. But the question is also: shouldn't the Ministry have known sooner? More than four years ago, such an appointment was made with GGZ Nederland. That's a formalized deal. So there have been all kinds of people together, perhaps on several days, meeting about the fact that they are going to treat these two titles in the same way. Didn't the question ever come up there: gosh, what about supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u137	I have to say that I haven't. I note that on the basis of the reports that were there. For me, new things really come out. When I look back, I see that there's been a growing practice. You asked me yesterday in the scheme to put that on paper. I sent you a letter this morning and said: I cannot say that we did not know this way of working. In fact, it was formalized, so the people in the organization knew. So I'm politically responsible, I knew it, too. But that that brought with it such vulnerabilities, that besides good intentions there were also weave errors in those appointments, I really knew that only now with these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u138	I conclude from that that all kinds of agreements are made, but very important agreements, with great consequences, without proper thought or without proper analysis for the safety of the Netherlands. Just as we are now very quickly reaching a different conclusion, namely that no one can go outside on the basis of Article 15.5 and you can also say: that should be under strict supervision. So the question is basically: is there now panic football going the other way? It is absolutely right that a measure should at least be taken temporarily, because we all want supervision. Or has there really been a proper analysis of the consequences for the safety of the Netherlands and the prevention of recurrence in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u139	Yes, Mr President, and I do not mind discussing this at another time, because this is not some kind of ideological dogma that I am trying to carry through here. I can only observe that putting these two titles together, with all good intentions, has led to a number of institutional vulnerabilities. Let me briefly mention them. The granting of freedoms under these two titles is something different in law than in that triangle between the Pi-Director, the Individual Affairs Division and the treatment workers. That leads to a lack of clarity. This is now apparent from these reports. At least in the Michael P case because he had an execution indicator, an opinion was requested from the Public Prosecutor's Office when he started with 15.5. That's the advice the state's attorney's office gave. Then it was thought in the prison system: "They seem to agree to starting that treatment, including freedoms. That does not appear to be the case in this report, because the Public Prosecutor said: "We thought it was treatment, but we did not know that there were freedoms." The third is the continuous line of parole. Because 43.3 is a title of treatment with resocialization there was also the probation. Originally at 15.5, because it was mainly treatment with small freedoms, it was believed from the prison system that that would be freedoms under supervision and under the supervision of the clinic itself. We see that under 15.5 in this case much greater freedoms have already been given, so under 43.3 the probation was used, which actually did all kinds of things you might have wanted to have that probation with earlier. Mr. Chairman. These are three things that really only come out so urgently and so specifically with these reports. Then we could have done two things and we really weighed them down. It is not at all that on day one, when you receive such a report, you immediately have your measures ready. So that's what you talk to people about. At that time we said: we can, on the understanding that this is a growing practice and that there is obviously a need for it, better arrange it and correct all these looming errors. We've given that some serious thought. In the end, we did not choose to do so, for a number of reasons. One is, I also think it is important that we look at what was once the intention of the legislator. The intention of the legislator was not as it was in practice arranged. So if we have to change that, then as far as I'm concerned, through the front door. Then we have to change the law. Then you should see if you can give more time under 43.3 for that, by the way, punish and protect the part that is also included in the bill, which hopefully we will be talking about soon. Two is that there would also be a weird discrepancy if you were to grant freedoms even under 15.5 because you would get the situation that if you had a disorder and went to a clinic, you would start with freedoms rather than if you had no disorder and stayed in prison. That's a weird thing, too. At least these two things led me to say: "No, we go back to the original intention, 15.5 without freedoms, 43.3 freedoms, but with better supervision."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u140	Finally, I wonder what the Minister thought when it appeared that there were three other people he had not mentioned before. Would we have known that if I hadn't asked for the letter? And what does he expect in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u141	You would have known that, because I would have said it here in the debate. In drawing up this letter, a great deal of attention has been paid to prisoners with these titles whose freedoms have been revoked. We are talking about three people who have withdrawn the entire title. And by mistake, that was not included in the original letter. I wanted to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u142	Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that only the population of out-of-town detainees convicted of serious violence and sexual crimes has been vetted? And that this has not been done retroactively with ex-convicts, who may not have had a complete risk analysis and therefore pose a risk to safety in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u143	The screening has been wider. We have looked at all the placements based on the two titles 15.5 and 43.3. That's all the inmates on these titles in forensic care. We have not done so retroactively, because it concerns people who no longer have a criminal title. There is no longer any possibility of doing anything with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u144	So, if I understand correctly, it is possible that there may be ex-convicts at the moment who have been convicted of serious sexual and violent crimes, without having had a proper risk analysis. If they have not had it, and if those people are at large at the moment, they may have received the wrong treatment and thereby pose a danger to society. So that's not in the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u145	That's a really quick conclusion. But the question is, how far back do you go in time? For example, let me take the risk assessment. That really is a scientific discipline that is getting better and sharper. At first, it was optional to apply it, and I now propose: do it by default in the case of violent and sexual offenders. Because those instruments didn't exist ten years ago, you couldn't apply them then either. So as far as that goes, looking back a long way... Quite apart from the fact that you no longer have a legal title, because a sentence is finite and stops once and the question is what to do when it comes to a finding, it is also not so that we can conclude one-on-one that there was not a good look at it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u146	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u147	I very much agree that a punishment should end at some point, because that is how criminal law works. But I do think it's important to have the risks sharp. If it is found that there may not have been a good risk analysis of certain ex-convicts, at least the risks to society should be in the picture. There will have to be a certain way of keeping the finger on the wrist, even if there is no criminal possibility to deal with it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u148	There are other ways and agencies for that. For example, for people who are a danger to themselves or others, you have the possibility to apply a forced care measure through the BOPZ if there is a disorder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u149	I'm still a bit searching: is the tragic death of Anne Faber a human failure of some people or is this much wider in the chain? If 27 people are retrieved after we have done an analysis based on 15.5 and 43.3 and have looked at everything, it is the question whether it is wider. Are there any misconceptions being made? Are the wrong instruments being used? Are people being sent wrong? Do they have to deliver long lists? Have there been too high administrative burdens imposed by the Ministry? How does the Minister see the relationship between one-off and structural? Were they incidents or a structural problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u150	In my view, the reports show that there is something structural. One case has been zoomed in, but I believe that the OVV literally says that it has enough signals to assume that this is also happening in other areas. We can't say that it's an accumulation of mistakes, that it's an incident. You have to take structural measures, and so do I, such as the compulsory risk assessment and the separation of those two legal titles with all the uncertainties. I take many measures, such as those relating to the refusal of observers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u151	What if that means that we have a structural problem here that has put society at great risk? Fortunately, 27 people have been taken back. To what extent is that due to political considerations and choices that affect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u152	I don't see the latter immediately. The choice and political balance is now that we saw that there were looming errors and that we are proposing measures for the future. I have decided at some point that, because it is measures for the future, I have also begun to apply them to those we have now. I am not doing this because I have concrete indications that there have been enormous dangers and risks, but precisely to rule them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u153	Then we get the somewhat talkative euphemistic remark about looming errors. That word was invented in the past by some consultants. I've been hearing that for about 20 years. I think that's too easy. In 27 cases, the Minister has chosen to withdraw the leave because it is not clear whether a good, valid risk assessment has been made. Then we can't say there's been a looming error. Well, that's a lot wider, isn't it? That was also part of my first question. To what extent did we just build a wrong system here? It's not a weave error, it's just a wrong system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u154	Apart from the words everyone chooses, I note that the reports show that there was a practice in which the use of the scientific risk assessment tools was increasingly applied but not standard. It was actually up to the individual handler to consider whether that was necessary for his judgement or that this could also be clinically. That has gone wrong in this particular case. If it had been done, signals might have come to light sooner. We need to learn from that. That is precisely why I say: in that system you have to implement a measure that is no longer up to the individual handler to make that assessment, but that the standard is imposed, that it is mandatory. That's what you do to get everything out of the closet to make the picture of risks as complete as possible in the case of serious violent and sexual offenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u156	I come to some steps in the process, starting with tbs. Michael P. effectively escaped his TBs measure. In his previous criminal case, he refused to cooperate in the investigation, the observation at the Pieter Baan Centre. The judge was therefore not given full advice on his state of mind. You know from me that the problem of refusing observers is a thorn in my eye. As with many spokesmen in the Chamber, I also believe that those who are eligible for TBs, for whom this is necessary, should also be given this in the interests of society, but ultimately also in the interests of the prisoner himself. Earlier we discussed several possibilities to redesign the imposition of tbs. The two-stage model has been put forward here by Mrs Van Toorenburg. I also mention the possibility of imposing TBs during detention. That suggestion was made to me today by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Kuik. We have taken some of these options seriously before. I asked Erasmus University if there are any improvements to this. Are there any possibilities in this that can be further developed? They conclude that some of these proposals, including subsequent imposition of TBs, have serious legal complications. That has to do with someone being convicted once, a coincidence of cases and so on. In practice, this may not have the desired effect and may even have undesirable side effects. Of course, that is not the end of the matter, because the need to do something about these problems is not over. That was the reason for me to announce a number of measures last year. They're in a number of places, starting at the front of the criminal trial. For example, I have clarified the legal requirements that determine when you can and must impose TBs. I have decided that the refusal department of the Pieter Baan Centre was already piloted when I started this job, as far as I am concerned, would be continued if the evaluation was somewhat positive, and that was it. The regulation, which Mrs Van Toorenburg has just asked for, also helps because it offers the possibility of breaching medical professional secrecy in the event of refusal. All these things help the judge get as complete a picture of the suspect as possible and determine if TBs are in place. It also makes it clear to me that it is important for officers and judges not only to look at the disorder of an individual suspect in the past, but also to consider the dangers and risks to society in the future. This has now been achieved by the Court of Justice. In that respect, we are really more than ten years ago. I think it is important that this is also clearly enshrined in the law. That bill is coming your way right now. These measures are, in my view, a huge improvement, but then too, you may wonder if they are completely conclusive. There's always a chance someone's gonna slip through it. And then what? What else can we do during detention? A few things. First of all, during detention, it is possible to place a prisoner with a very serious disorder before treatment in a tbs setting, not with the endless extension that Tbs with coercion entails, but at least with the treatment you can focus on. In addition, conditional release will be more likely to be used for treatment. One of the elements of the Punishment and Protection Bill is that conditional release is not granted by law, but that if it is necessary and there is a risk to society, you can decide that the treatment will continue and that someone will be stuck for longer if necessary. And since last year there has been a new legal possibility with an independent supervisory measure under the Long-Term Supervision Act, with which you can also impose some back-up, namely a mandatory treatment as a condition for a new judicial review. As far as I know, that measure has been imposed twice since then. We monitor whether this possibility is actually being used in practice. Mr. Chairman. This creates an approach which makes effectively avoiding TBs much less likely and which makes refusing to cooperate in research much less attractive and significantly reduces its impact. I also see that in the number of tbs imposed. Of course, that number is not an end in itself; I understand that very well. But you do see a rising line. In 2018, in 237 cases TBs were imposed, the year before 205 and the year before 171. So you can see that judges can find their way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u157	There are questions, but I'll see if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u158	I do have several specific questions that have been asked. Shall I go through with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u159	You can wait, can't you? Yes. I suggest you answer these questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u160	An interrupting debate between Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Kuik discussed the so-called observation measure that would have been taken out of the law. That observation measure referred to by Mrs Van Toorenburg was not part of the Forensic Care Act, but of the Mental Health Act of the State Secretary of VWS. In criminal law, the observation measure is well embedded. For example, a suspect for the purpose of preparing a PJ report may be required to be included for observation. The maximum period has also been extended from seven to fourteen months. Mr Van Wijngaarden's question was: should you not extend it further? If you don't either after fourteen... I just said months, but I meant weeks; excuse. If you have not been able to establish a good indication after fourteen weeks as a psychiatrist, then it is a question whether you are able to do so if you make it 15, 20 or 30 weeks. The evaluation carried out on that special unit in the PBC shows that those fourteen weeks in combination with new treatment methods are actually quite effective. It's not the only thing we do. Soon there will be a breach of medical professional secrecy and clarification of the title. Even without a medical indication of a disorder at the time of the crime but with, for example, directions in court or directions that the judge may have when he looks at the crime "I see too many risks for society in the future" The judge does indeed have a title to impose TBs. That is, in my view, a final approach. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked that the maximum period of time for the TBs should not be deleted, or that some kind of hardness clause should not be introduced. I doubt that will ultimately have the desired effect. Maximised TBs can be imposed especially in the case of relatively minor offences, for example, where there is no violent crime. If you leave that unmaximized, you run the risk that a judge will say: we will not impose the measure. I'm afraid if you take off the maximation, it could have the opposite effect. Then Mrs. Van Kooten asked if you shouldn't turn all the forensic care into TBs. I've misunderstood her, I'm making up her reaction. I'll do my best to answer her question properly. If I don't do that right, she's gonna correct me with an interruption. It is precisely the different levels of security that provide fpa as the lightest and fpc as the heaviest and the tbs-clinic that offer the possibility to choose, looking at the risks a prisoner presents, a heavier form with heavier security or a more lighter form. What's important is that you make the assessment of the risks better, at least better than Michael P's case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u161	I'm looking at the minister. Have you come to the end of this section? Then I can give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u162	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u163	No, I didn't say that at all. I was just asking about this. If you look at the conclusions in the OVV report, it seems that all care should be transformed into something suitable for a TBs. That was my comparison with the tank on the bike path: you should not make the bike path safe for the tank, but you should make sure that the tank does not get on the bike path. In other words, someone who does not belong in the light care should, first of all, not get there and if he did get in by accident, you have to get him out of there as soon as possible, I think. Does the Minister agree with me? By the way, that was a quote from the lead researcher of the Van der Hoeven Kliniek in Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u164	I fully agree with this. Major high-risk cases don't belong on an fpa. They'll have to go to a more secure regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u165	In my speech, too, I mentioned the possibility of Article 15 (5) of the Penitentiary Principles Act. I hear the Minister announce all kinds of measures, some of which may be sensible within the current system, but I wonder whether the possibilities offered by this article have been considered to the maximum. I am referring in particular to a kind of repair tool that the Minister has if a judge has not imposed any TBs. In fact, psychologically disturbed people can be sent to a psychiatric hospital by the Minister, and this can actually be considered as long as necessary. I do not know whether the Minister has looked closely at these possibilities. With Michael Panhuis it has obviously not been looked at, but has the possibilities of this article been looked at since? This gives the Minister a means to intervene if judges have wrongly not imposed or have been able to impose TBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u166	That can indeed be done on the basis of that article. Unfortunately, this article was also used in the case of Michael P. My proposal would be that this title should no longer be accompanied by external freedoms. That was the growing practice. From now on, I want it to be used only for treatment without freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u167	Mr. Markuszower? Yeah? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u168	No. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u169	Well, I'm almost distracted, because that also means something for the clinics where people go. However, we will probably be able to discuss this further if the Minister's plan is to be better worked out. My question was actually the following. I know that colleagues are making proposals about the TBs, to see if they can still be imposed if they have not been imposed. The minister said: that's complicated because of ne bis in idem; you can't be convicted twice for the same crime. That is how I understand Erasmus University's research. But my question is: if a new incident occurs during detention, which makes it think that there is such a disorder that TBs is justified, is it possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u170	If an incident occurs during detention that is so severe that you are convicted of it, and that is also a TBs-worthy crime, it could indeed be. But you can't say, on the basis of what someone has already been convicted of, after two or three years, that we can see that there is a disorder; we'll put some TBs on top of it. Tbs is, in our view, a treatment, but is seen in international legal practice as partly a penal measure. In any case, there is a relationship with a criminal measure. You have to do that once, at the hearing on the original crime scene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u171	Then I am curious about the Minister's position. I simply do not know what my group thinks of these proposals. I would like to think about that, but I am curious about the Minister's position. What does the Minister think of the possibility, if new incidents or offences occur during detention, to ask the judge to convert the measure into TBs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u172	That is possible when it comes to a TBs-worthy crime, but the TBs-worthy crimes are the serious violent and sexual crimes. And if someone's in detention, he's locked up. Of course, he can always do something horrible inside the prison, but the chances of him doing that outside shouldn't be there. That is why we must learn from the mistakes that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u173	This requires that we are aware, even in this whole forensic care, that there is a need to report it. But because there are so many people with a disorder together, the practice is that there is no report. We hear that a lot. There have also been incidents in Den Dolder such as rapes and serious assaults, which have not been reported. Will the Minister undertake to ensure that, if this motion is adopted, there is a growing awareness of the need to press charges? 'Cause then you can do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u174	I really agree with that. If there are incidents, including within the walls, and criminal offences, it should simply be the standard option for the security of the staff but also just to show the prisoners that the rules apply outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u175	Very good, because that really requires a sense of awareness, because people are used to everyone reacting insanely and they often deal with it in the handling atmosphere and not also in justice. I have another question on the inspection report, because it says very strongly that if the defendant does not cooperate in his investigation, the position of the court is that he will be punished and that no personal circumstances will be taken into account. That's the court's point of view. That was then. Of course, this report will also have its own life. Can the Minister, therefore, today indicate how this policy has actually changed within our courts and that the position is no longer 'not tbs' but that the position is 'take everything out of the box to ensure that it succeeds'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u176	You know I can never sit on the judge's chair. You are not asking me to do that either, but when it comes to the interpretation of the law, I believe that the TBs article should be interpreted more broadly and that it can be explained. There's case law on that, too. That is why I want to make this explicit in the law. What we then do is to ensure that this comes between the ears of prosecutors and judges who are dealing with cases of this kind. We are therefore in contact with the College of PGs and with the Council of Justice to ensure that the way in which that article is to be interpreted is applied in practice as standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u177	Also during Michael P.'s detention, of course, aggressive behavior occurred on his part. I have a question about ne bis in idem. It's okay to be exactly about that. I do not think there is any light between what this Chamber says about it and what the Minister says about it. That stands as a house, but while in custody, of course, new facts may arise which may also give rise to a title to re-assess whether there is a lack of development or sick disorder of spirit abilities. That is the situation we are talking about here. So it is not a matter of two times for the same thing, but of a situation where there is something new. With regard to the abolition of the Maximized TBs, I would like to point out that the judge still has to see whether the TBs can be extended even in the case of non-maximised TBs. In that sense, there is always such a weighting moment. The question is how we come to that, but the point is that the staff must be aware of the need to report and what freedom-taking opportunities there are. That point was also made by Mrs Van Toorenburg and I would like to get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u178	Mr Van Wijngaarden is quite right. I believe that, in the case of serious crimes, standard reporting should certainly be made. So I'm picking up that point. Then the question is always again whether it is a TBs-worthy crime, regardless of the point that the prosecution must pursue and make its own decisions in it. That does not alter the fact that I agree with you that staff should be aware that the policy is standard in the event of serious incidents and that there is always a chance of prosecution. When it comes to a very heavy TBs-worthy crime, you can still impose TBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u179	This is also an important part of the debate, because it is about where people who are dangerous end up, so that society is protected from them. I agree with "tbs where that can be done," but as far as those clinics are concerned, I am assuming a situation where no Tbs are imposed and where someone ends up in the clinic at some point. The Minister said very clearly that the risks should then be put first. The risk assessment must of course be good. On the basis of this, we determine how tough the security must be, whether it should be a psychiatric ward or a psychiatric clinic; well, this is about all the models we have. I agree: the risks must be at the forefront. But that has not always happened in the past, of course. One of the consequences of the last round of austerity, which we were also talking about, was that people ended up in a lighter regime earlier because it was cheaper. How is the Minister going to ensure that, from now on, purely, purely and solely, risk assessment is looked at, and that money does not really play a role in this? In any case, there should be no financial incentive to leave someone less secure, because it is cheaper. What guarantees are there for that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u180	I think we should look at that together. If you're going to a new funding model, you need to see if there are any perverse incentives in it. You always have to look for a balance. Let me give you an example. At some point, the treatment time in the tbs Michael P. didn't always increase in tbs. Then you saw reluctance on the part of judges to impose TBs. There was also doubt among experts. They said, "Is that all necessary?" This has led to the fact that, in conjunction with the sector, it has been said: for as long as it has to, but no longer than is strictly necessary. That always calls for very sharp risk assessments. We need to look very closely at the dangers we run and always look for the right balance. Eventually, the content must be guiding. I think Mr Van Nispen and I really agree on that. Let us keep each other on that in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u181	We're definitely gonna keep that sharp. I had said in my contribution that there are signs that clinics sometimes do not send the dangerous people back to prisons, because that would be loss of income. So that's also a perverse financial incentive. It should also be part of the investigation. I hope the Minister can promise that. Finally, I would like to ask whether there is any reason to tighten up supervision of clinics or perhaps organise them differently. For example, I'm getting signals that forensic customers sometimes also live protected in trajectories. I do not think that is the subject of judicial supervision at all. I'm afraid that's organized differently in every municipality. Is the Minister prepared to see if that is justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u182	The latter is a special theme. If Mr Van Nispen says that he sees things there that I need to take a closer look at, I am happy to accept. I need to see if I can get back to that at another time. Then I go into the first, the perverse incentive that clinics would be on their inmates or patients, because that is financially attractive and that they would not send them back to prison if, for example, incidents occur. I'm not getting that out of the report. I don't know those signals. I'll be focused on that. My impression is rather that there is a waiting list at these kind of forensic clinics and that the rooms and beds are always well filled than that forensic clinics have to do with open spaces. If you tell me to look into that, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u183	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u184	Then I would like to move on to the risks: they are one of the important themes in the reports. In prison and forensic care work is done with the most difficult people in our society. These are dangerous people who pose a risk to society. The same society can expect protection from our system and the professionals who work in it. People can expect society to be protected from sex offenders for the duration of their detention. At the same time, they can expect us to make every effort to minimise the risk of repetition after detention. There is an inherent tension between these two cases. Anyone who wants to reduce the risks of recidivism after release must accept that the risks during detention will never be zero. You always have to look at how to minimize the risks. But even a small risk is not zero. The weighting of risks must, of course, always be careful and accurate according to the most recent and current professional standards. A system of protocols with checks-and-balances should enable professionals to perform that heavy task as well as possible. I note in this case that we have failed to do so. The guarantees are insufficient. Mistakes have also been made in the implementation process. You could say that there has been a series of errors in this case without a correction or without it being noted. That aspect of vice increasingly disappeared into the background. That scared the shit out of me. I would like briefly to highlight three things. I would like to briefly mention the lack of attention to the background and the sex crime of Michael P. Two: the incidents in Vught that were not reported. And three: the information that wasn't shared with the clinic, because Michael P. refused to cooperate. First of all, Michael P. was convicted of a sex crime in 2011, managed to avoid TBs and was not treated during the first part of his detention. He was in a regular prison. At some point in 2013 he was transferred to the PC in Vught, because diagnostics and treatment were deemed necessary. In that indication it was noted that in the long term he could also be transferred there to a vice department, as it was in Vught. In the end, Michael P. was placed in a structural department. There were two reasons for this. First of all, he wasn't very open about his sex crimes. At that time, the traders said: it makes little sense to place someone in a vice department, because the essence of the treatment lies precisely in it. Secondly, it was found that he had problems of aggression. Before that, he could be treated in that structural department. The conduct of the subsequent psychodiagnostic research and the implementation of that risk assessment have then focused on that problem of aggression. The PC in Vught offered Michael P. various treatments, most of which focused on learning how to deal with tension, anger and revenge. It was a treatment that wasn't aimed at any sexual problems. Slowly but surely the problem of vice in the PC turned into the background, we now have to observe. That has been decisive in this case. The decision on relocation to an FPA was taken on the basis of incomplete information and thus partly wrong assumptions. I spoke earlier about the rigour with which these risks to society should be considered in the short and long term according to all standards, protocols and checks-and-balances, but they have not worked properly here or were absent. Mr. Chairman. In the case of convictions for serious crimes, in cases such as Michael P., in prison, in the PC and in the clinic from the beginning to the end, I would like to see the possibility of repeating the original crime. That is also why we are now going to make two mandatory prior to the expulsion of detainees. The first is to make a good risk assessment. This scientific tool must therefore also be used. That risk assessment should be made not only on the offences for which he is being treated, but also on his original crime. That could have made sure that at least that blind spot that had arisen would have been broken by looking back at how he had originally arrived there. We note that this has not happened. That's a flaw. The second is the crime analysis. There must be an instrument that also focuses on the crime committed. There is more and more possible these days. A crime analysis makes clear the circumstances under which a crime was committed and the risk factors involved. I'd like to record that in the Decision forensic care. There's been a late crime analysis in this case. It is partly transferred to the fpa and is then not involved in the treatment. We have failed in that too. I believe that with these two measures we are doing everything we can to get a better picture of risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u185	Mr. Chairman. How does the November 2018 coverage relate to the conclusion of the OVV that there is no agreement on the appropriate instruments for risk assessment? That was a question from Mr Krol. As you know, in the TBs there is talk of a review by the Avt. For an application for leave within the TBs, which is a much heavier regime, the use of risk assessment is always mandatory. At present, risk assessment tools are increasingly used within other forensic care. My proposal in response to these reports is that this should no longer be optional for the person treating someone, because then there could be a blind spot and something could be missed, but that could actually be introduced by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u186	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u187	I'm gonna head back to the Penitentiary Facility Vught. If I read the report correctly, it's actually just a coincidence that he ended up in Vught. I think that's weird. After a crime like this, someone refuses to cooperate in an investigation. He ends up in a regular prison and because he wants to live close to his family he ends up in Vught. That's where people happen to know him and they know he committed a sex crime. That'll get him into trouble and he'll ask for help. They're gonna see what's really going on with him and see that there's something really serious going on with him. He'll get to the PC. I think this route should be different. I'll ask the Minister to take a look at that. I believe that consideration should be given to whether people who have committed a serious crime, who refuse to cooperate in observation and who therefore do not receive TBs treatment, should by definition be offered to a PC, because there will soon be the expertise to make a good analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u188	I find that an interesting thought. In this case, avenged that someone didn't get TBs but a bald prison sentence. A lot of things didn't go well in this case. In itself, it is good that at some point during his prison time it was found that he did have a disorder. Otherwise, he wouldn't have gotten into the PC. I would like to take Mrs Van Toorenburg's suggestion to see what you can do if there is a refusal. By the way, we are trying to mitigate all the effects of refusal as much as possible, but there should be something of alertness, so that it can be picked up more quickly. Then you can always say: go to a PC. In Vught happened to be a PC, but also from a regular prison you can always send someone to a PC.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u189	I told you before we'd be back at Vught, especially the prison director. Before that, here's the thing. The minister went through everything that happened in Vught very quickly. I think the minister skipped over Michael Panhuis' serious misbehaviour there. He's committed crimes, he's been using drugs and he's also shown sexually deviant behavior. None of that came up. So I would also like the Minister's assessment of the value of the treatment workers who have not noticed all this and who apparently have not written it down. They have treated him for aggression, I hear just as the report said, but we have to note that this treatment has apparently not helped, because later Michael Panhuis committed a murder, not only from a moral background but also from an aggression background. In the clinic in Den Dolder, he also showed problems of aggression. Apparently, the treatment guys in Vught aren't that good. What's the Minister gonna do with those treatment men? They failed. That's point one. Point two is the prison director. If I quote the minister correctly, he just said that incomplete information was passed on to Den Dolder. But that's a very sweet qualification for that lying prison director. He lied. He didn't mention that Michael Panhuis committed serious crimes in prison. I still want the Minister to go much deeper into the role of that prison director.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u190	There have been mistakes made at different times by different people in prison, at the PC, in the decisions about his transfer and in his treatment, a series of errors. Some of them had to do with the nature of the treatment and not using available instruments, and with getting more and more into the background of what he was originally convicted of. This does not mean, however, that at any time when a file is being processed, it is not simply capable of what its original conviction was. That's just judicial information. In his treatment it was only said at a certain point: it may be that this rape was done from aggression. I don't want to justify it all, but this is what I read back in the reports. Mr Markuszower is referring to something else. There have also been incidents, for example a scuffle with another inmate. By the way, that has been notified, also towards the fpa. But in addition, there have been two incidents of threats. At least he told an employee he was going to attack them. One time he didn't follow a lead from the staff. That wasn't reported to the fpa. There's two things going on there. At some point, Michael P. was in a PC. There are people with all kinds of serious disorders or behavioral problems. I don't want to justify it all, but there are these kinds of incidents on the order of the day. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't report them, that you shouldn't register them, or that you shouldn't give them, but that's the context in which this happened. It does not explain that the qualification is then given that he would be a model patient or prisoner. I think that's an inimitable qualification. Moreover, I cannot find an adequate explanation in the reports as to why this has happened. However, I would like to avoid that certain facts do not go along with the transfer, just because they would not look at it in a PC. Socially accepted behavior and standards must always lead the weighing of behavior, I think, especially in the preparation of the stage in which someone goes when he has to resocialize. Well, then, those things must be known. With the amendment of the Judicial and Criminal Data Act, since 1 January this year it is also possible to share with clinics the penitentiary file of convicted persons for these serious crimes. In hindsight, you would have liked that in this case, but I note that we have a real improvement in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u191	Afterwards, very briefly. Okay, the Minister admits it's inimitable what that warden did. Can the Minister tell the Chamber what the penalty is for this inimitable behaviour? My suggestion would be to get this man out of the way. Then I would also like a brief response from the Minister on what he is going to do about those failing treatment men in Vught. They have misdiagnosed, developed a mistreatment plan, which has been proven to have not worked. I would nevertheless like to qualify the actions that the Minister is going to take on these individuals who work under him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u192	As I said at the beginning of my speech, I am never talking about human consequences, not positive and not negative. We have a debate. You may address me. I'm politically responsible. What I do see is that in prison and during the transition a series of mistakes were made by several people, and that the sum of those mistakes led to a very serious error.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u193	Mr Markuszower, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u194	With the danger of repeating itself, I am speaking to the Minister himself, and he is now saying again that he is not prepared to dismiss the people who have failed and who are therefore responsible, directly, for the murder of Anne Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u195	I think we're falling into repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u196	The Minister said in general that a lot of mistakes have been made by a lot of people at a lot of different times. I was wondering whether he also covered the subject of the Individual Affairs Division, or whether he was going to go into that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u197	I'll get to that in a minute, when it comes to responsibilities. Because that too is a vulnerability. Turns out on the next block. I just said something about incidents. A number of other questions have been asked, for example by Mr Van der Staaij. He asked: if you are going to draw up reports and grant freedoms on the basis of those reports, why are those files so limited? That's exactly one of the reasons we're saying with the new legislation that your entire detention file should go to such a clinic. Because at all times, from the beginning to the end of the sentence, regardless of whether you're in prison or in a clinic, you're also serving a sentence. Anyone who takes care of you, who is working on you, who is responsible for protecting society, must always have the full picture. Then the point of not leaving because Michael P. refused his permission. This is specifically a part of the crime analysis which, by the way, was taken at a rather late stage within the prison, within the PC. That crime analysis contained medical records and they are subject to medical confidentiality. The main rule is that such data may not be shared without the consent of the person in question. And Michael P. didn't give that permission. However, there are exceptions to that basic rule. For example, the care provider may break the obligation of professional secrecy in the event of a conflict of duties or exceptional circumstances, for example where the care provider suspects that the person concerned is a danger to another person. Whether this is the case depends on the individual consideration of the health care provider. It is difficult for carers to be very cautious in this respect, because they are also people who are BIG registered and subject to disciplinary law. I see that sometimes there is more restraint in care than perhaps we would like to see from a safety point of view. I note that the weighting in this case has been wrong. The answer from the PC Vught to Michael P.'s refusal to transfer the files could and should have been: then you stay where you were or are, in prison. That's not what happened. As far as I'm concerned, this can't happen again. Sharing important information should not depend on the individual controller or the consent of the inmate. Here always applies to me: security over privacy. I want treatment professionals in this sector to have the penitentiary data, the criminal data, as well as the treatment data, if necessary. Since 1 January 2019, the Forensic Care Act provides a basis for sharing the treatment dossier. That's the law that was passed by the Upper House in early 2018. I think it is very good that these principles are clear. It is precisely in order to say to those traders that it is necessary, "it is in the law, so it is allowed; even more so: it must." I believe that this information should be freely available from now on. In the short term, the Decision provides for the transfer of the treatment file to the new healthcare provider, irrespective of the consent of the inmate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u198	Where are you on this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u199	Mr. Chairman. I still have a few questions to ask, then I finished the block. Maybe I can go through it briefly. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why these signals had not been responded to earlier. This has been dealt with before, which was precisely the reason for the Forensic Care Act, which was not yet available when Michael P. was in detention, but which is now there and which in my view is also necessary to prevent this kind of thing in the future. Several people have also asked how privacy can play such a big role; Van der Staaij, Van Toorenburg and Van Wijngaarden asked this. I have already made it clear that, as far as I am concerned, the starting point is always security over privacy. Privacy barriers should simply be removed. If treatment information is available in prison, it should be transferred to a clinic, so that a clinic can also take care of it at any time. Finally, Mr Drost asked whether AICE, the execution part of the CJIB, could still play a role in the full transfer of files. AICE has been made for the sharing of execution decisions, so that in the future it cannot be so that one OM-parket has known that someone still has part of his sentence open, while one does not know that someone in another part of the country has another part open. We want to bring this together more centrally, so that at one time you always have the full picture of which fines and penalties are still open. That too is an improvement. But sharing the treatment files is regulated by another way, namely the Decision forensic care that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u200	It is good that the privacy barriers are finally being addressed, because also in Philip O.'s case we saw that he has partly sat down on his own medical records, which has blocked information. But this does raise a question, and with that I'm going to sit in the "why." What makes it so that PI Vught had the power to decide not to forward it, but that this didn't happen anyway? The authority was there, so they didn't have to do it. One couldn't share the medical records, but one could have said: if you don't cooperate, that's your bad luck, because then we won't forward you. I still need to be in that "why" for a while, because there are a lot of issues of this kind in this whole case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u201	Yes, I understand. I've been wondering this, too. Why this decision? I refer to the main conclusion that emerged from the report, namely that there was too much emphasis on treatment and resocialisation in the treatment of these prisoners and then on forensic patients, while the risks were too low. I imagine it was thought: "The end date is in sight and someone is heading towards his provisional release. If we leave him here in prison, we have a huge risk that he won't get the right treatment. The danger that he will walk out and be a ticking time bomb is enormous." I can imagine that an error of assessment was made at that time, in which people thought: even if we have this defect, we are going to try to transfer it. That is also one of the reasons why I propose in my measures to remove the hard deadline for conditional release. Then, if necessary, treat it longer and longer if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u202	The latter is good, but I think it is very important to keep looking at the why-question in the screening of forensic care. Was that parole indeed the argument? That may be an argument, but it may also be that people thought: we want to get rid of him, so play him on, information or not, because it has been a good time. If that's the case, we're having a very different discussion. I can't guarantee that that didn't matter here. We're not taking it back from the report, but this does raise the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u203	I understand the question, but I'm not taking it out of the report either. And about the people who work in prisons: a lot of mistakes have been made. People have dropped a lot of stings, and I'm really not gonna make it up to you. I'm having some serious conversations about that. But I do see with those people a drive to do the right thing, to protect society, to work hard on resocialization, also from the point of view that it is ultimately in the interests of society's security. Well, that didn't work out right here. Again, mistakes have been made, but I do not doubt the good intentions of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u204	Me neither. No one rose up with the idea one and a half years ago: I am going to do it completely wrong today. However, it is important to see all those elements that can ensure that people make decisions and recognise that it is more than just an unconscious mistake and that there are other motives for sending people through though files are not in order or they may not be quite ready for it. In other prisons and forensic health clinics, too, we really need to have that in mind. We need to tackle this in a structural way. This is also about the mentality and culture that Mr Markuszower, among others, referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u205	I fully agree with Mrs Chicken on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u206	I would like to put a brake on the Minister's enthusiasm to use this case to advocate his bill of punishment and protection. He pretends that by definition the shortening of conditional release is a solution. We can talk about that, but the big problem we saw here is that someone has not been properly judged, that someone has not been treated properly and that adequate protection measures have not been taken for society. That's another story. I think it would be better if we stick to the facts here instead of trying to get this for another cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u207	I fully agree with this, but fair is fair, at the same time I see in the report also a time pressure on traders. Someone walks towards his vi-date and then it is automatically so that it is not automatism because there are also now possible exceptions to two-thirds of the sentence saying that the punishment is over. I want to get rid of that. I want to go to an individual assessment. If it is necessary to treat someone longer, as far as I am concerned, it will continue in the future in that vi-period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u208	I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u209	But we're gonna have another discussion about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u210	Exactly. That's what I was gonna say. We're not going to take an advance on a bill that still needs to be dealt with in the Chamber. You made your point, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u211	Yes, because it's relevant to the extent that it wasn't at the time of the parole. There was another misanalysis of what was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u212	When the reports came out, everyone found it very strange that prisoners can apparently decide for themselves what information about them is being transferred to the clinic to which they are being transferred. That has aroused a great deal of indignation. When I said at the beginning of the debate to the Minister that the Ministry had been warned about this, at least ten times since 2010, by one person alone, the Minister said: I will then push back for a moment, because that is what we acted on and took action on. This is in the Forensic Care Act, which came through the Upper House in 2018 and entered into force in 2019. The underlying decision in which this is resolved is still not in force. Then why did the Minister consider it necessary to push back at the beginning of this debate when I said: take a critical look at the role of the Ministry? All these years this has not been resolved, when we could have long agreed that it can never be the case that a prisoner using privacy can prevent the transfer of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u213	Mr Van Nispen and I fully agree on this. What I wanted to point out is that the law was in the Chamber when this terrible crime occurred. After the adoption of such a law, lower regulation must always be made. Again, we are very busy working on this, but there are also consultation periods and deadlines. I'm not gonna let a minute pass. We're gonna speed that up. It must be arranged as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u214	I get it. I know the history of that Forensic Care Act. I know it took a lot longer than anyone would have wanted and hoped for. I understand that, but wouldn't the Minister have been able to get that part out of the law and send it to the Chamber sooner? I thought there were other solutions to that. Certainly such an underlying decision goes much faster than such a law on forensic care. I understand you need that foundation, but couldn't the minister have arranged that sooner? Can the Minister still reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u215	I understand, but here the First Chamber has also asked for a number of due diligence requirements and for an informal hearing to be held, apparently also because at the time the people's representatives were the consideration: all nice, but this is also a far-reaching law. Then we had a huge discussion about breaking medical confidentiality. I managed to get it through there with reasonable support. I do not know what your party was like at the time, but I think that all the parties there have at least had a genuinely honest debate. It has been said at the time: if you are going to do so, then these are far-reaching measures and we want you to talk to the sector and to keep it informal. That's exactly what I'm doing right now. But again, I really don't want to waste time on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u216	Please continue. According to you, you've come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u217	Responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u218	Yeah, and procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u219	Yes, because there are mistakes and vulnerabilities there too. Maybe I can take two parts, because we have already talked about legal titles in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u220	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u221	I would still like to zoom in on who is actually responsible for placement and granting freedoms, and what about the check on that. Mr. Chairman. In order not to be unclear about the responsibility for placement and the granting of freedoms, I suggest that the director of the p.i. take responsibility for all these steps. Now I noticed in the debate that some people said: but he was already. Yeah, part of it. I see that the reports make it very clear that, in the practice of relocation, there was no clear picture of the role of the director, the selection officer in the Individual Affairs Division and the medical director. I want to get rid of that ambiguity. It's the director who makes the decision on freedoms. In my view, there are a number of good reasons for this. One is that the warden sees a prisoner from day one. He's in his institution. He can follow that. At the same time, he has sufficient distance. So he knows someone, but he's not the handler. So it can actually act as a good, critical check. Three is that he is also able to take action. In the event of incidents, a director can intervene and say, for example, when transferring to a clinic, that someone should return to my institution. I heard the member Van Toorenburg in her contribution ask whether the Advisory Committee on Leave Assessment Tbs could not play a role. I understand that all too well, because you're talking about an independent look. Force strange eyes. That can help with decisions on freedoms. That could make them better. Is the prisoner really well or, for example, is there any reason for doubt? I do have reservations about using the Avt specifically in those decisions on freedoms. That has to do with the procedure of the Avt taking a lot of time. That is fine in a tbs treatment in itself, because with a tbs you are treated as long as you need, while sometimes you are working on this by a date. This is not necessarily the case with treatment in detention. It's limited in time. The risk with the use of Avt is that there is insufficient progress in resocialisation, so that is a dilemma. I believe that, with the things I am proposing now, measures are being taken which, at least in two ways, correspond to what Mrs Van Toorenburg is trying to achieve in my view. First of all, the Director is advised on the granting of freedoms by a new Committee on Placement and Freedoms. What you want is that, like the Avt, there's someone in there with behavioral expertise, so it's not an administrative review, it's also a substantive review. That strengthens that judgment in my view and gives an independent view of the judgement of the forensic institution on the progress of the treatment. Moreover, in the new procedure I propose, a check must always be made when granting freedoms, a current opinion from both the Public Prosecutor's Office and probation. In any case, two things are brought together: through the behavioral expert in the new placement and freedoms committee and on the security side of the case through the Public Prosecutor's Office and the probation. The second is that the inmate is also seen by the independent indicative author of the NIFP when deciding where to go, an fpa or fpk. The director of the p.i. In this way, a full, professional and independent judgment is provided, but he is also sure that not only has the file been reviewed, but that a handler has also been able to look him in the eye. I believe that this combination will at least partly respond to Mrs Van Toorenburg's suggestions. I have a few other questions. I'd like to suspend them, but I'd be happy to deal with them first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u222	I would suggest that you answer these questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u223	For example, Mr Van der Staaij asked what exactly is meant by taking social risks into account when granting these freedoms. So that's how you put all these puzzle pieces together: the risk assessment and the crime analysis in the file. And in the provision of freedoms, which has not gone well in this case, this is always: advice from the Public Prosecutor's Office, advice from the parole board and also supervision by the parole board. Then there is Mr Krol's emergency braking procedure. Yeah, I totally agree. There is indeed a need to intervene if something is not going well. The Forensic Care Act also contains a number of obligations that need to be taken into account and signals that need to be picked up. We are talking, for example, about reporting unauthorized absence or other special occurrences, such as possession of prohibited substances. That's what's in the file, and you can act on it right away. Mr Van Nispen spoke about the involvement of the parole board. I answered that question. Mrs Buitenweg asked whether supervision during unguided leave was adequately arranged. With my proposals, if you go outside under 43.3 there will always be probation supervision. You thus overcome the vulnerability that is now present in the combination of the two, where the probation is only late in boarding. That's gonna be right from the start. Finally, and then there may be some interruptions. Mr Groothuizen asked himself in the new protocols, new responsibilities and new rules how to ensure that this does not again lead to new bureaucracy or bureaucracy. That is a very valid point. I have looked into whether, if we impose obligations, they are really necessary. I find that in some of these cases. Before I went outside with this letter, I had contact with GGZ Nederland. In doing so, I had an agreement, including in the context of the multiannual agreement, to try to reduce the administrative burden. But they too felt that the measures we are now proposing are really necessary to prevent this kind of error from happening again. I have a strong impression that there is agreement between the Ministry and the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u224	Were you done with this? I shall go first to Mrs Van Toorenburg and then to Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u225	I'll be clear from the start that I'm not convinced yet. I'm not convinced because, unfortunately, I know the practice too well. There are very few directors who are able to walk around their institution every day. There are facilities of 600, 700, 800 inmates. The mental director doesn't know his inmates anymore. I used to be four-in-a-row with them. Nobody does that anymore. I also notice that we already have the suggestions made by the Minister. We already have a committee on freedoms. You might be able to rig that up a little bit, but then there's still a piece of advice to the state's attorney's office. Well, you can do that now. The Public Prosecutor's Office is not an expert in psychiatry. The parole is too far away. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he will at least undertake to have the Advisory Committee on Leave of Leave of Tbs examined whether it could play a role in this, because the suggestions that the Minister is making are all still internal. I really think we need to face the fact that only strange eyes can force it. We've been talking about this for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u226	I'm always willing to investigate, because then we can see what fits and what doesn't. You can also see if you can learn something from a methodology of working and whether you can incorporate it. I have tried to give at least parts of that Avt procedure a place on the Committee on Freedoms. There's no treatment expert in that right now, which makes it too much of an administrative exercise. That is also apparent from the reports. At least that will strengthen that part. But I'm willing to take a good look at that again. I say that to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u227	Then I don't have to mention that point anymore. That's good. I see that it is much easier for the Minister to look ahead than to look backwards, but this is also a debate of accountability. I have asked a number of questions, including on the Individual Affairs Division and on the fact that officials were satisfied to take decisions on the basis of insufficient information. I would still like information from the Minister on this. He specifically said that someone from the NIFP should actually see the prisoner from now on. To be honest, I find it strange that this did not happen before and that such important decisions were only made on the basis of a variety of dossiers. My question is: isn't that a subject that has been discussed in the Ministry before? Surely there are more people who think that someone really needs to be seen before you make such a judgment? Didn't that ever come up there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u228	Try to avoid abbreviations as much as possible, because a lot of people follow this debate and really drop out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u229	The NIFP is the Netherlands Institute for Forensic Psychiatry. This is the advisory body that the judiciary uses when assessing, for example, whether someone should go to a TBs clinic or to a lower-level institution, a fpk or an fpa. Those are three abbreviations, by the way. On both parts, I have to say that this kind of consideration has been made on the basis of dossiers. Of course, there's an incredible amount in that. There could be risk assessments in that. There could be crime analysis in there. There could be incidents in that. You name it all. You can, of course, make a decision on that basis. I can only see that two things have gone wrong here. First of all, it became too much of an administrative process in the Individual Affairs Division. Because the files were incomplete, a decision was also taken on an incomplete basis. I think that's a vulnerability. I would prefer the final responsibility to lie with the director of the p.i., because at least he is still in the institution itself. He could walk to his department. Even if it's a big prison, he can go check it out. That's a really complicated case from the Ministry. The second one's in the NIFP. There too, indications are made on the basis of the files. There are, of course, expert people there, but it can help, for example, to see someone for a moment and to have a conversation, which is not the current procedure. For example, you can see that the handler has overlooked things in a PC. That's where it went wrong in this case. I think we should learn from that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u230	Firstly, I believe that assessing dossiers on the basis of incomplete information is not only a vulnerability, but unacceptable. But I think that's what the minister meant. The psychiatrists at the NIFP gave advice on where someone should go on the basis of files without seeing anyone. In my eyes, that's bizarre. My specific question to the Minister is: hasn't that been discussed in the Ministry before, that it should be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u231	The answer is no. The NIFP includes treatment experts, psychiatrists who also rely on the information they receive from their colleagues. There are experts at such a PC, for example. However, we can see here that the risks were not in the picture, and that some of them had started treatment that looked at the problem of aggression and not the problem of vice. Then there are vulnerabilities and mistakes, as we have seen. I find that insufferable, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u232	Thank you for the answer to the question about bureaucracy. Good thing that was discussed with the ggz as well. My question is short and simple. Can I draw the conclusion that this 'anti-bureau-cratiser operation' is continuing in full? It may even be that the Minister says: 'I give this very much priority, because I want to get rid of these unnecessary rules as soon as possible'. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u233	The short answer is yes. The clarity I seek with these measures can make a great difference. The lack of clarity about this can also be seen as administrative pressure. If it's clear that there's an obligation that you have to do certain things, that can also give you rest. So I think it is necessary, but it can also work positively in terms of perceived administrative pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u234	That's good. Does the Minister agree that, in order to get rid of unnecessary rules and bureaucracy and paperwork, we should focus on what I call the "accountability bureaucracy"? I have great concerns about this: the system that I believe people are hearing from, and which is mainly intended to exercise all kinds of control over them and which does not really serve any meaningful purpose. In my view, this is one of the major problems experienced not only in forensic care but also elsewhere in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u235	I couldn't agree more. Sometimes regulations are needed, but these are unnecessary rules and administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u236	There are two more questions to which I would like to hear an answer. I asked a question about the GPS ankle band, and I also asked if there has ever been an investigation into a home clinic for forensic care, so that all conditions could be much better guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u237	I think that probation is so important there that you have to consider on a case-by-case basis the need for supervision of a specific inmate. It may be that the parole board concludes that it's someone who has a restraining order, or someone who needs to be able to be followed. Then an anklet is in place. I think it's a little too far to do that standard for all inmates. There were a lot of freedoms here before the probation even came on board. Their role has already been much less than I consider desirable. That's what's missing. If that probation is going to play a more solid role, Mr Krol is going to be absolutely right: then you can apply that kind of thing from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u238	But did those more than 20 people you've had recalled all of them have an anklet? Or were those people we thought, "Well, let them walk?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u239	That differs from one case to another. These are all very different cases. In addition, it was not only an issue that there would be no supervision. Some of them were covered by Article 43 (3) Pbw, and the probation is involved, but we found, for example, that there was no risk assessment. It's possible. In the old regime, that was not mandatory either. In the new regime as far as I'm concerned, yes. So I want that to be put in order for the incumbent population as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u240	Mr. Krol, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u241	But if you call these people back now, there's enough risk of at least wanting to know where these people are? I really don't understand how you can rhyme one with the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u242	Just so we're clear, those 24 cases no longer have any freedoms until everything is in order, so we can just look at what security measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u243	Honesty commands me to say that I get a bit itchy with expressions like 'we're going to reduce the burden', 'the administrative burden' or 'the bureaucracy'. Then I do not think you are doing justice to the serious situation that has occurred, to the deadly victims, and to the debate. So I find it a little too easy, as I say to the Minister. So there are people who come up with rules. Those rules are being introduced. That's what's under consideration. They're people who studied for that. It's on the control side. And then something serious happens and we say to each other: yes, that load pressure is so high, we are going to clean it up. That is not so easy in practice either. However, I would like to return to my question, Mr President-in-Office, to my contribution in plenary. I asked whether the Minister had taken specific measures against the person responsible for the p.i. in Vught or at the forensic psychiatric ward in Den Dolder. I am not concerned about the people, but have specific measures been taken, because there have been huge mistakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u244	Measures have been taken. And I'm taking action. Those are described in the letter. If we are talking about human consequences or human measures, then I refer back to the answer I gave to Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u245	Just to be clear, here's what else. Measures have been announced and the Minister has done so in his letter to the Council, which applies to all situations and also to other institutions where that occurs. They are not specifically grafted on the PI Vught and the fpa in Den Dolder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u246	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u247	I think you've come to the last...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u248	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Only one specific question has been asked about the provision of information to the municipality. But I am going to answer that, because the mayor of Zeist asked in response to the OVV report: what can and should we do to improve the provision of information to municipalities, so that local measures can also be taken to improve rehabilitation or to use police for extra supervision in the interests of public order? Mrs. Kuik and Mr. Van der Staaij asked: what are you going to do in concrete terms to better inform those mayors? I'm not going into all kinds of other things, but I'm going into the big points. There is a specific regime under which municipalities should be informed about this kind of thing. It didn't work well. There was an administrative error, so Zeist didn't get the signal that Michael P. was on leave. That has now been solved by digitizing that system, so that that kind of human error can no longer be solved. That helps. So that's an improvement in that system. Two. We see that not all municipalities are connected to it, because it is a voluntary connection. 10% to 15% of the municipalities in the Netherlands do not yet use them. So I am going to talk to the VNG to make sure that a covering network is created in the Netherlands. Three. I want to see what we can do to enrich that information. Then it's not just about signals at first leave. Then it is a question of reporting more often, so that a better picture can be made of what happens to people who are granted freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u249	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u250	Mr President, I come to the conclusion of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u251	Fine. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We have arrived at the second term of office. Mrs. Kuik, there's something you'd like to say. You can do that at the microphone. That is a point of order, when I hear it like that. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u252	Mr President, I actually need a ten-minute suspension. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u253	I'll take a look around and see if there's any objection. That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u254	We will continue with the debate on the report of the Safety Research Council on forensic care. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u255	Mr. Chairman. We have had a debate with each other on two very hard reports on a horrible case. We also found that Anne Faber's case is not on its own. We also have the sad issue of Joost Wolters. Before that, there were the issues of Elst Borst and others that we did not discuss in this debate. I said in advance that it is extremely important for me that we look back. We must also, above all, have the confidence today that a state that accepts its responsibilities and takes away the culture and mentality of not taking responsibility. He must ensure that real measures are taken in the short term, so that we can guarantee more that this kind of horrible thing does not happen this way anymore and that we get the mistakes that are now in the system out of it. Mr. Chairman. That makes me give this minister the confidence to deal with and solve that task. I'll do that with a certain degree of hesitation. I do need to see results in the short term. The Minister has agreed to come forward with an annual evaluation. That seems good, but since things have been promised in the short term, I would like us to see where we stand in six months' time. What does the timetable look like until then? That is the only way we can show each other that we are serious and that we want to make progress. Other colleagues will be tabling a number of motions which I support, including on tbs and post-end tests. I'll file one motion myself. It's about the leave. I believe that leave in forensic care should be treated in the same way as in the TBs. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Advisory Committee on Leave Examination of Tbs (Avt) independently and with expertise reviews requests for leave from Tbs from primarily the safety point of view for society;]] [[considers that the provision of freedoms in forensic care should be subject to an equivalent risk assessment;]] [[considers that the expertise and experience of the Avt can serve as an example;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the Avt could also be given a role in the case of leave applications for stay outside a forensic psychiatric clinic or department,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u256	I thought it was a difficult, heavy and loaded debate because the government failed to protect society and because the deaths of Anne Faber and Joost Wolters caused so much grief and indignation. There's some hard conclusions. Big mistakes have been made. Just because we didn't discuss this for the first time, the intrusive question was really: why now? Why are things really gonna change? We have also previously had promises and commitments in response to very serious errors with major consequences. The Minister strongly said that there is no lack of urgency, we must not let this go away, so keep me sharp. Well, we're definitely gonna do that, because it's very serious to all of us. This debate must and will certainly be continued periodically. The Minister also said that we need to learn from mistakes and that this requires openness. The establishment of the clinic in question gives me little confidence, at least as far as the clinic is concerned. The clinic does not fully cooperate with the research and has a laundry list of comments on the results of the independent research. The Minister said quite euphemistically: there is still a world to be won here. I expect a little more in that regard. Should we not, for example, tighten up or otherwise organise supervision of these kinds of clinics? I notice that a large part of the Chamber is becoming increasingly critical of the purchasing relationship with those clinics and the entire funding system. It is very good that this is being investigated now. Let that be good. Let the Justice Department be involved in that, too. We think this is very important. Finally, I continue to be deeply concerned about the staff and the ability of people to do their job properly, because safety is human work. At that point, I found the Minister to be too defensive, too defensive. I regret that, because we want a lot: a better risk assessment, so that we know whether or not people are dangerous, whether or not people are in the right place, proper treatment and file sharing. That is why we need these people, these people who already have too few colleagues and too much work. The Minister is not making enough work of this. It has to be. I would like the Minister to have at least another thorough investigation into this, what the situation is, what the state of affairs is, because it is precisely in the interests of society's security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u257	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u258	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In the opinion of the SGP Group, this response was clear and trustworthy. It is a very difficult matter, but the Minister does point out the urgency of this matter. A lot of measures have already been taken to improve everything that has gone wrong for the future as much as possible. I must say that I appreciate that approach. It does not take away anything that has also come out clearly today: too many things have gone wrong, too many things have gone wrong, that it is very painful and that it must make us determined, persistent, to see as a Chamber that all the measures that have been put forward are implemented. The Minister has undertaken to report annually on this issue and to involve strange eyes in it, so that others can look at it and see what has been promised. In the first term, I referred to the Research Council. When I looked into that, it turned out that those were supposed to be the inspections. The inspections say in their report that they expect a report from the forensic care sector on the state of improvement measures by 1 October 2019. My question to the Minister would be to go along with it and thus to come up with a first feedback earlier than after a year after today, at the end of the year, as soon as possible after this report. That was another specific question that I have to ask the Minister. Finally, I would like to table another motion on one key point. This is a key issue which is indeed very important, and which has also been discussed here today or earlier in the Chamber: the importance of the proper and timely exchange of information. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the investigation reports on the Michael P case show that crucial information on sexual offences has not been exchanged between the authorities concerned;]] [[noting that similar conclusions have been drawn in other cases;]] [[considers that legislation and implementation practice should aim to ensure that information on offences and risks is exchanged in the interests of society's security without being hindered by recourse to the privacy of the offender;]] [[calls on the Government to examine which elements of the security domain, including the interface with the care domain, there is a risk that recourse to privacy may hinder the exchange of information necessary for the adequate identification of risks, as well as to inform the Court of Justice of the legal rules and changes needed in practice to ensure the security of society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Drost, Mr Kuik, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Groothuizen, Mr Azarkan and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u260	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u261	Mr. Chairman. It has been a difficult debate in several respects. My aim was to be able to look each other in the eye at the end of this debate and say that we are taking the necessary measures. Mr van Nispen also pointed out how the measures in practice were in the countries concerned. I therefore reiterate my appeal to the Minister to remain closely involved in the cost investigation that is now being carried out by the NZa under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America. There's a lot of lessons to learn. I'm filing two motions with points of interest. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the entry into force of the Forensic Care Act has made it easier to impose tbs on non-observators;]] [[noting that further offences may occur during detention, indicating that there is a lack of development or disease of the detainee's mental capacities;]] [[considers that it would therefore be desirable for detainees to be subject to TBs after the judicial decision by the criminal court in the event of new offences justifying TBs or other restrictions of freedom;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare measures or legislation to allow such detainees to be subject to TBs or other restrictions of freedom where possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u262	And then there's a motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pursuant to Article 38d of the Code of Criminal Law, TBs can in principle be extended indefinitely;]] [[believes that this will improve the safety of society;]] [[noting that Article 38e of the Code of Criminal Law also allows the court to impose maximum TBs which cannot be prolonged indefinitely;]] [[Considering that this may cause the undesirable situation that the TBs treatment has not yet been completed but that the TBs should be terminated, even if there is a relapse in sexual or aggressive behaviour;]] [[noting that the Federation of Survivors has also called for victims of violence to be not only legally and politically known but also to land in the heads of the operators concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to make it easier for forensic personnel to understand what measures can and should be taken to deprive of the maximum freedoms to those convicted of Maximised TBs even after the end of TBs, if their conduct justifies it;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Drost and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u263	Yes, a brief question on Mr Van Wijngaarden's first motion. He had a first-term debate on this with the Minister for Legal Protection. The Minister's reaction was: that's possible; for example, if someone commits a murder in prison, you can then, of course, impose tbs. So what exactly does Mr Van Wijngaarden intend to do with his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u264	A murder is a fairly obvious case, but it is a different kind of violent or aggressive behaviour which can create a title to refer to the court or not to impose TBs again or to take other, less severe restrictions on freedom. We are concerned that this is happening, that is to say that there is a report and that, if necessary, TBs are still being imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u265	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u266	But does Mr Van Wijngaarden now intend to report this, or does he say that I see a need for a new package of measures because there is a gap now? In my view, the Minister's answer was that when a criminal offence is committed in prison, if it is sufficiently heavy, you can impose tbs on it. When it comes to a small theft from a co-convict's cell, it won't be a quick matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u267	There can indeed be a great deal, but the whole point of this debate has been: is it happening? This is an incentive for the Minister to make sure that it happens where it can. Can't tbs, then at least other freedom-absorbering measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u268	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a direct link between the Minister's policy and the murder of Anne Faber. Just as the murders of Els Borst, Joost Wolters and others could have been prevented, Anne Faber's murder could have been prevented. Today's debate showed that this minister is not prepared to take maximum measures to really solve the structural and cultural problems in the judicial chain. The Minister refuses to dismiss the officials and officials responsible. He also refuses to withdraw all outstanding engagements in the clinics and TBs institutions until he has had all those institutions vetted by the OVV. The Chamber has been misinformed by this Minister. I regret to conclude that Sander Dekker cannot become the minister who offers the Netherlands the protection to which the Netherlands is entitled. Of course, many measures need to be taken to correct the structural errors in the chain, but those measures, I say, are by no means welcome to be taken by another minister. The Minister has lost his credit with my group. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister was aware of the errors in the judicial chain and had not acted adequately in the last year and a half;]] [[noting that the Minister misinformed the Chamber about Michael P.;]] [[noting the Minister's refusal to take the appropriate measures to ensure maximum protection for society;]] [[declares confidence in the Minister for Legal Protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the answers; almost all the answers, because despite the reminder at the end of the first term, I have not yet been given an answer to the question of whether it has ever been investigated whether an own clinic for forensic care could not be useful and, if not, whether such an investigation could then be considered. Then about the deployment by professionals with a lot of experience working in the rehabilitation process, the emergency brake, or "red flag," as I called it. In response to this, the Minister mentioned that there are already obligations to report cases, such as unauthorized absence, but it is precisely the undefined issues that I am concerned about, the things between the rules: giving room to professionals who, on the basis of their experience, say that something is not right. Hence the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are moments during a forensic resocialisation course where professionals in a forensic clinic have doubts;]] [[Whereas laws, rules, distributions of responsibility, division of tasks and protocols cannot close everything;]] [[Whereas there must be room to respond to a feeling of uncertainty;]] [[calls on the government to introduce a red flag that professionals can raise in a forensic clinic at the time of questioning and doubting on the basis of their experience, in order to stop the resocialisation process until clarity exists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u271	Then the ankle bracelets with GPS. 50PLUS attaches great importance to the safety of society. It must never be put under pressure because of errors, which seem to be more common than we would all like. That's why there's motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the safety of society must never be forgotten during forensic re-socialisation processes;]] [[Whereas a GPS ankle strap is an effective means of increasing the safety of society;]] [[calls on the Government to use a GPS ankle band for all forms of leave during a forensic rehabilitation process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u273	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister. Mr Van Nispen was right to say that it is a very heavy debate, but it has been a bitter necessity for us to have it. We started to debate the TBs, because at least Michael P. tbs should have been imposed. I think we could still ask the Minister for one solution to analyse whether it is possible. That's what my first motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has become apparent that there is a need for opportunities to impose TBs at a later date, where it appears that the safety of society and offenders benefit from this;]] [[noting that juvenile offenders may be subject to conditional measures;]] [[noting that there is a system in German law of including a conditional form of TBs in the judgment of the court;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether and how it can be made possible for the judge to impose conditional TBs, so that a judge can decide at a later date that TBs is desirable, and inform the Court thereof in 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u275	We mainly came to this thought, because we know that Joost's perpetrator eventually got detention with youth and that it was later converted into a pij. So it's possible, Mr. Chairman! With regard to those refusing observers, we have received an important undertaking, namely that we are looking at whether someone can access those PCs. We're gonna get the deal on the TBs in May. We have co-signed the motion of the Labour Party on that advisory committee, because we want to put a little pressure on it. Maybe we can keep it if we get a clear commitment. But we also have a concern about the penitentiary psychiatric centers. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after several incidents the safety and quality of forensic care has been investigated;]] [[Whereas many structural problems in forensic care have proven to be problems currently being addressed;]] [[noting that the reports of the inspections and the Safety Research Council also show deficiencies within the psychiatric penitentiary centres;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a similar investigation as has been carried out on forensic care to assess the safety and quality of forensic psychiatric centres,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Van Wijngaarden, Buitenweg and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u277	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a long and intrusive debate. Whether it is a good debate, whether we have asked the right questions and whether it will lead to better care, honesty commands me to say that we really have to wait and see. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Mr. Chairman. A lot of mistakes have been made in the cases surrounding the deaths of Anne Faber, Joost Wolters and Els Borst. In particular, the transfer of information between the authorities concerned, which had to assess the risk of recurrence, is a major defect. And I find it undesirable that relevant information does not get through properly between these authorities and the judicial chain. As far as I am concerned, the authorities concerned should have unrestricted access to relevant information on that risk and the dossier. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that much has gone wrong in the transfer of information between the various authorities, which had to assess the risk of recurrence;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that relevant information does not pass well between those authorities;]] [[Whereas the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Judicial Institutions Service, the Penitentiary Institutions, the Pieter Baan Centrum, the Netherlands Forensic Institute for Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology and the Individual Affairs Division should have unrestricted access to relevant information on the risk of recidivism;]] [[calls on the Government to put in place, in the short term, an electronic offender file or a variant thereof, thus preventing information from reaching the appropriate authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u279	Mr. Chairman. The minister went through the dust at the beginning. He really did his best and I appreciate him for that, but the question is whether enough responsibility has been taken, because the various reports of the OVV and the JenV Inspection also show that the government has been seriously failing. The conclusions are harsh, crystal clear and gnawing at conscience. The Minister has acknowledged that he is responsible for protecting citizens and society. It has also recognised ministerial responsibility for the authorities concerned. The Minister has also indicated that these are not incidents, but that there are structural errors in the sector. And this is largely caused by political choices by ministers, and this Minister is responsible for that too. That is why we will support the PVV motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u280	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions that have been put in the debate today. I found it, with a few exceptions, a good and dignified debate on an intriguing matter. I have seen a minister who says he wants to proceed with the speedy implementation of the recommendations of the inspection and the OVV and of the measures he himself proposed. D66 will follow this Minister closely. The findings of the Hoekstra Committee and the follow-up reports call for such a critical attitude, because it sometimes seems to lack a sense of urgency. It is, of course, a good thing that the Minister will periodically inform the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, it is also very sensible for him to look at the intersections and the similarities between the various cases that have come to light today. In the end, however, it is up to the Minister for Legal Protection to ensure that the system improves structurally. As far as my group is concerned, the most important thing is that the professionals in the system should be given room again in order to do their job properly. As far as I am concerned, it is a gain, if you can put it that way in a debate like this, that this Minister has seen and recognised that today. I hope and expect the Minister to put the announced measures into effect quickly, provided that this is not already done. I welcome the commitment that this will not stand in the way of the much-needed fight against bureaucracy in forensic care, and I am actually thinking more broadly. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister one more question. I would ask him to include that element, the fight against bureaucracy, in the regular reports to the Chamber, so that the Chamber can really see that the right steps are being taken in this area, that unnecessary regulation is being cut out and that only what is necessary to improve security remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u282	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. Then I go to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u283	Thank you, Madam President. It was indeed a difficult debate. But I'm glad we could have it together, because it was really important to think about this so extensively. On the basis of the reports that have been presented, the Minister could have chosen to take responsibility by resigning. He didn't. He has made a pride of new proposals and indicated here that he is motivated from head to toe and really wants to work on improving forensic care, to make society safer and to limit recidivism. I sincerely hope he really is going to take those steps. The Minister has promised a large number of things; matters which I find very important. For example, the study of the possible perverse financial incentives will also focus on the transfer and intake conversations, which now appear not to have been funded and which is partly a reason why they are sometimes lacking. I think it's important that there are. There is also attention to possible perverse incentives behind the fact that many people are being placed far too lightly at FPAs, when they would actually need heavier protection, or we should be more protected against them. I expect a very explicit policy response on all these points. The Minister wants the responsibility really to be taken by people in care and says to report periodically on it. I would like to be more clear about what that is. Because I don't want any more boxes that can be ticked, no more numbers. I want professionals to have the space to practice their profession. I want them to actually do that. And I want to know how we're gonna talk about that. So the Minister has promised a large number of things. I need a letter clarifying what we can expect for the coming year. Mr. Chairman. I'm critical of the Minister, though. I noticed he'd rather look ahead than back, especially where it affected his direct responsibility. Because how could that Department of Individual Affairs make decisions without knowing full files? Why didn't the Minister know? How could the minister never know before that the NIFP made decisions without anyone always being seen in person? How was it that the DJI made agreements with GGZ Nederland about unsupervised freedoms, without alarm bells going off? In short, the Minister will have to discuss this in his ministry. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister himself is now under supervision. We sincerely hope that he will keep his promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u284	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive and careful response and commitments in this loaded debate. Good to hear that he also expressed his sympathy and regret in a personal conversation with the relatives. I would also like to thank the relatives of Anne Faber and Joost Wolters for their presence in this debate and wish them every success. The Christian Union now considers it important to ensure that the measures are implemented carefully and expeditiously, including the ownership and support of the people in the sector. After all, they must do it and prevent the measures from being merely idle procedural changes rather than the much-needed, real change of practice in protecting our society. In order to put the people in forensic care in place, my group believes it is important that the method of financing should also be in line with what we are asking them to do. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in response to the reports of the OVV, IJV and IGJ, the Minister for Legal Protection indicated its intention to take additional measures to increase risk awareness in DJI and in forensic care;]] [[Whereas it is important that these measures involve a real change of practice, not only on paper but also in practice, as advocated by the Federation of Survivors of Violence;]] [[noting that the Justice and Security Inspectorate states that a complete personal intake in the forensic psychiatric departments is rare, partly because the funding system does not provide for this;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a system for financing the intakes in forensic psychiatric departments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Drost, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Groothuizen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Buitenweg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u287	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u288	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u289	Mr President, thank you, too, for my part. Thank you for the way in which, in my view, we have been able to conduct this debate in a very good and thorough way. Two questions have been asked and then I shall deal with the motions. The first question is specifically about the return report: when exactly am I coming to the Chamber? I want answers along two lines. I say to Mrs Buitenweg that I think it would be wise to come before the summer recess with a follow-up to the letter I sent last week, which contains a number of things: a timetable and a plan of action, including for the months and years to come. We also need to look at what would be a good time for this independent review that I mentioned in the first term. At some point we have to have compelling eyes from the outside to see whether everything is being properly taken up and whether there is sufficient urgency. I am prepared to do two things in the periodic reports we are going to send. On the one hand, I shall be joining in on Mr Van der Staaij's first follow-up reports, which will come at the end of the year. Well, that's the rhythm. I think we can give a first progress report by the end of the year. I also take up Mr Groothuizen's point about the effects on administrative burdens. Mr Krol is right. In the first place, I have forgotten one of his questions, namely whether we should look at whether we should set up national clinics ourselves. They're already here. Technically, ppc's state clinics are forensic care. We also know them in the TBs: the Oostvaarderskliniek and Veldzicht. We see no difference in quality between state clinics and private clinics. That is exactly why I very much hesitate to say now that we are moving towards a system debate. System discussions are dragging all the energy away from what really needs to be done, namely the launching of measures and the taking of the actions needed not to repeat the mistakes that have been made here in the future. Then I'll get to the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 46 by Mrs Kuik, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Buitenweg, who asks to investigate the role of the Avt in assessing freedoms and treatment modalities. I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber. That gives me room to check whether it is applicable or, if it is not, to see what we can learn from that way of working. The motion in part No. 47 has been signed by many, but first by Mr Van der Staaij, and deals with privacy and data exchange, wider at the intersection of justice and care. I am in favour of this and I would like to pass the judgment on to the Chamber. I have another enlightening question to ask, also to see how broad we need to fly that motion. Does he also refer to the problem of confused persons? There is also some discussion in this Chamber at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u290	The idea here was that you should do it a little bit wider than just on very specific segments. If the Minister says that we are already dealing with it for a particular segment and know it all exactly, there is obviously no need for duplication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u291	Okay, but I hear Mr Van der Staaij says: better wider than narrow, then we can include it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u292	Judgment Room, do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u293	Yes, judge Room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 48 members of Van Wijngaarden, Kikken, Van Toorenburg and Van der Staaij discuss the possibility of imposing tbs or other restrictions on freedom where criminal acts are again committed. I could use that. Judgment Room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 49, which says: at least make sure that people are aware of the possibilities available to take other measures. I could get out of my way with that. I am thinking, for example, of measures which the new law provides for long-term supervision, which are, of course, quite new. It may be important to ensure that this is also known to people so that those legal possibilities are actually used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u294	I was just thinking about the Minister's opinion on the motion in part No. 48. I think he said earlier in the debate: I understand what Mr Van Wijngaarden is trying to do, but he can do that, because if someone commits a TBs-worthy crime in detention, he can just go in the tbs. That seems logical and totally fine to me, but then I think the conclusion will be that this motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u295	I read it as follows: calls on the government to prepare measures or legislation allowing for etcetera, et cetera, et cetera. I have already said a few things about what is possible in terms of legislation, but we can do something about it. For example, we have had a discussion about whether standard reports are made in the event of incidents in prison. Not always, we have to observe. I think that should happen. That is an example of a measure that you need if you then want it to lead to persecution, condemnation and thus to a further restriction of freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u296	I note, then, that the Minister says: in so far as there is 'legislation' in the operative part of the motion, that is not really the issue anymore, but if I interpret'measures' in such a broad sense as to include the making of a declaration, which has indeed been discussed, then I shall be able to do so. Is that the reading of the motion minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u297	I've read her in such a way that they don't say here, and, and, and... It says "measures" or "legislation." I have understood the intention of the proposers as: if incidents occur within the walls, make sure that there is an opportunity to prosecute, condemn and take action against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u298	I had raised this point earlier because I just don't know what to do with it. As far as these measures are concerned, there is no provision for measures to make it possible for people to enter TBs. That would have been the case in the example mentioned by the Minister, namely that there are always reports. It says: measures to make it possible. I am still looking for what it says and how this relates to the report of the University of Rotterdam, which states precisely that it is not legally possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u299	"Wherein" or "why," let's not have an overly semantic discussion. I read this motion as follows: make sure that it is regulated, but that could also be done in measures, of which I have just mentioned a number of examples, which you will follow up if incidents occur within the walls or during the course of detention, with possible persecution, condemnation and, where appropriate, restrictions on freedom. That is possible, because then there are new crimes. It is also different from the opportunities that Erasmus University pointed out to us. That is to impose TBs for the fact that someone was initially convicted of. That's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u300	May I ask, just to be sure, whether the proposers promise to do the same? Then I can get out of my way with how I'm going to vote myself later. Because if a majority in the Chamber actually says anything other than what the Minister means, then I am still a long way from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u301	No, I can reassure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u302	Well, that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u303	I believe I have the motion in part No. 49 had already given judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u304	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u305	Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 50. I'm not judging, because that's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u306	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u307	Then the motion on...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u308	51.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u309	...piece No. 51. If I may explain the motion in such a way that professionals in forensic care can at any time send such a signal to the director of the p.i., who, at least in the proposals I make now, bears responsibility for it, then I can use it and give her judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I will not do that at the next motion by Mr Krol, in part No. 52. I have already indicated, for example, that a measure such as ankle tyres should always be subject to customisation on the advice of the probation board. They can really indicate when such a thing is necessary and when not. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 53 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Wijngaarden ask to examine whether and how it can be made possible for the judge to impose conditional TBs and to inform the Court of Justice. I do not know whether this can be done or whether it fits in with our legal system. I believe that's from Germany, but I'm willing to investigate that. That's why I'm judging Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 54.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u310	I have an enlightening question. I also find the thought interesting, so my basic attitude is that I am curious about such an investigation. I am curious what the difference is with the TBs with conditions, which we already know. Does the Minister now say that this will be demonstrated by the investigation? Or can the Minister say a little more about where the added value can be compared to what is already possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u311	I don't know the German system in detail. So whether that's similar to what we've already got here, I can't say now either. As I said last time, when we discussed in detail the refusal of observers: if there are ideas from other countries about how we can overcome some of these vulnerabilities, I do not want to miss any opportunity. In that context, I am more than willing to investigate this, because it can only help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u312	I think Mrs Van Toorenburg would like to explain something. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u313	Yes, if I may. A TBs with conditions means that you have to comply with certain conditions, but a conditional TBs is not imposed but conditionally imposed. If during a detention situations arise that you think "it should actually be imposed," then you can still do so. I have shown that this is easier for young people. Now they're doing the same thing in Germany. I think that is why we should consider whether this could be done in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u314	Please continue. So the verdict remains the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u315	Yes, judge Room. That is the same judgment I would make on the motion in part No. 54 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and other consorts. That's about a similar investigation in forensic care, but for the prison system, the PCs. I suspect, and for that I am looking towards Mr Van Nispen, although he has not signed the motion, that this can also help with a question he had: what about the pressure? Is there sufficient attention to safety, so that we will be given parallel routes? One section concerns forensic care under the task force now headed by Bas Eenhoorn. Another route is the research we are about to do. I can imagine things coming out that we could involve in that. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u316	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u317	It's a good thing the Minister will come back to that. If he really wants to respond to my concerns and if this research is the best we can get out of this debate, I ask him to do so as a matter of urgency. Can this be given very high priority? 'Cause that research on forensic care is already ongoing. Can this be done with great urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u318	As far as I am concerned, everything we are discussing today is in one place. This is part of it. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan asked for an electronic file. I'd advise against it. Apart from the fact that ICT projects are not always a great success, I would like to focus on the measures announced in the letter. The motion in part No. 56 I can give judgment Chamber. That's about the funding system in relation to the intake. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can finish with some general words. I have already said that the conclusions of the reports have touched me, precisely because I, as Minister for Legal Protection, feel it is my duty to protect society. This is also something that thousands of people in prison and forensic care are committed to every day. I know and have also seen how much impact these reports have had on them. During the work visits I have made, I have seen the professionals, traders and PIW's who are working every day with the most difficult target group we know in the Netherlands. Reports make it clear that it really needs to be better. That also comes with the people, also at the PC in Vught where I have been and also at the clinic in Den Dolder. I have also seen that they have taken up the gauntlet and have taken advantage of this terrible cause to improve the provision of care and not lose sight of safety. I am confident that we have taken the right path. The measures I announced last week will also help them to do that work better. We're gonna show each other that we've learned a tough lesson. I believe that we owe this to the family of Anne Faber and to every resident of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u319	Thank you. Mrs Van Toorenburg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u320	I hate to do this right now, but it's too important, so that's why I'm doing it. We had another question open. There is a major investigation into the financing of forensic care. Only VWS does that, but do we now get a commitment that the Justice Department will interfere with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u321	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-03-tweedekamer-5.u322	Good. Thank you. Before I suspend, I would like to thank the family of Anne Faber and the family of Joost Wolters for their presence in this plenary room today. It must not have been easy for you to follow this debate so closely, but know that a lot of people have followed this debate. I wish you much strength in dealing with this terrible loss.
