ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the debate on pollution of the Wadden Sea caused by the loss of 291 containers by a cargo ship. The directors of Infrastructure and Water State and of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality are also present. We'll start with the first term on the side of the Chamber. First, Mr Wassenberg speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 2019 could not have started worse for the Wadden Sea. On the night of January 2, a mega freighter lost 342 containers and the disaster is enormous. The Wadden Sea and the islands will suffer the negative consequences for decades to come. Even after the disaster, everything went wrong. This started with uncertainty about the number of containers that had to be adjusted several times because MSC, the carrier, reported the number too low each time. They were 270 containers first, then 291, in the title of the debate there are 291, and now there are 342. We should not know what exactly is in the overboard containers, because the loading list is kept secret on behalf of MSC. The business interests of the bulk carriers outweigh the nature of the Wadden Sea or the interests of society. The MSC causes a disaster and in the following months is mainly working to secure its own position. And the government goes along with that by keeping the data on the shipment secret. I ask the Minister what measures she can take to ensure that the letters of lading are available to governments and mountaineers as soon as possible, at least in the event of an emergency. Because even the mayors of the Wadden Islands cannot know what's in the overboard containers and what they might find on their beaches. You will notice, seems to be the cynical position of the transport and container companies. Does the Minister agree with me that society should know what exactly went overboard? 'Cause, Mr. Chairman, we're talking about stunt-bulk transports here. Stunts with prices. Risky stunts, but these risks are there for nature and the environment by irresponsible sailing in shallow waters, by irresponsible stacking, everything to transport the stuff as cheaply and as quickly as possible from A to B. All this for a few cents of profit, even though it puts nature and our entire habitat at risk. The MSC Zoe sailed through the TE route during that fatal day, a relatively shallow channel. Large oil tankers have been banned for 22 years, precisely because of these major risks to the Wadden Sea, but other large transports are unhindered. That TE channel is actually made a highway for ordinary bulk transport and that route is not suitable for that, because it is too shallow, too busy and too close to the vulnerable Wadden Sea. Once again, the Minister does not give the Wadden Sea the protection it deserves. Salt extraction, gas extraction, fishing and transportation of machinery, chemicals and trash for the kitchen shop, it all takes place in or near the Wadden Sea. Mr. Chairman. We need to get rid of that mass transport so close to the Wadden. Can the Minister now require large cargo ships to take the northern sailing route over the Wadden Islands? That is safer because that route is deeper and not so close to the sensitive areas. Can the Minister himself indicate routes or close them for ships of a certain size? Is the Minister going to argue this to the International Maritime Organisation? There is much to be said about the control and enforcement of the loading of ships. At a hearing on the container disaster on 10 April it appeared that only 3.5% of container ships were controlled, that their 110 out of 3,000 ships were................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Not checking the contents of containers, but sampling. We hear there's a lot of tampering with cargo papers. Not always is in the containers that are in the papers or there is no concrete information given in the consignment letters at all but only global information. That's gotta be better, too. We must be open about this. Is the Minister prepared to intensify and extend the control and enforcement of ships, not only in port but also during shipping? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u3	Thank you. It was in time, too. Mr Laçin is now speaking on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the night of 1 to 2 January the MSC Zoe lost many containers, the beaches were littered with car parts, IKEA gear and My Little Pony's. In the following days, thousands of Dutch helped clean up the biggest mess. Meanwhile, fishermen and salvagers went to work to clear the channel. That's where it all went wrong. Because the cost of clearing the shipping route and the storage of containers must be declared to the insurance company that handles the damage. This leads to a lot of twitching. People haven't been paid to this day. And that while the work they have done is essential for the accessibility of our country, not to mention the fact that without the rapid clean-up, our beaches and the sea would be much more polluted. Their work is therefore of public interest to us, but for the settlement they depend on a private party, a much larger party, which also does not benefit from paying. That is a bad thing, we think. What are these people doing in the event of another disaster, knowing that they have to go through the entire bureaucracy of an insurer and are not sure that they will be paid for the work they are doing? They need to be able to trust that the government is at least on their side. Are these ministers prepared to create a compensation fund for this kind of disaster, in the interests of the mountaineers and fishermen, but above all in our public interest? The government is much stronger against an insurer than small individual parties. I'd like a response to this. Then the contents of the Because where it took us weeks before we knew exactly how many containers had been struck overboard, we still don't know exactly where part of the containers is and what's in those containers until today. A WOB request from RTV Noord and Omrop Fryslân has produced little detail, because of company information that cannot be shared with the outside world for competition reasons. These competition considerations really lose it from a clean nature and the safe operation of salvage work. How should mayors and security regions operate if they do not know exactly what is washed up in our waters and on our coasts? This is inconceivable on the road and leads to major discussions on the railways. Will these ministers ensure that, in the event of a disaster involving the loss of containers, all information must always be made available to the local safety triangle so that they can act adequately and safely? Finally, Mr President. Speaking of nature, one of the biggest problems we face today is the plastics that wash up everywhere. On the beaches this can still be cleaned up by sucking up the sand and filtering. But this is much harder or even impossible in the dunes and salt marshes. That's where the plastic stays and it falls into microplastics. This can have all kinds of consequences for people and the environment. The potential damage is enormous, but no solution has yet been found to clean the salt marshes. What is the Minister of LNV going to do to find a solution to this? Surely we cannot accept that our northern salt marshes are littered with plastic, and stay? Finally, Mr President. A disaster like that with the MSC Zoe is extremely damaging to our economy and our nature. Now is the time to learn from what went wrong, so that we don't run into the same problems and make the same mistakes as we do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u5	Thank you. Mrs Kröger has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u6	Mr. Chairman. On the night of January 1, the Wadden region was hit by a disaster. This disaster continues: beaches littered with plastic junk, and many and many more plastic and other substances in the sea. The question for me in this debate is: what have we learned from this disaster? What's really gonna change? Or does the Minister, and then I address myself to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, as an incident that comes with it when you have a busy sailing route off your coast? After a disaster like this, we can't just move on to the order of the day. I would very much like the Minister's undertaking that she will monitor container shipping for risks and that she will come forward with concrete proposals for improvement. Is she willing to do that? In the letters, it is mainly about dealing with the disaster that we have now had. What risks are we talking about? I'll start at the ports. Should there not be stricter rules on the loading of ships and the securing and monitoring of containers? Things like stacking too high, not looking closely at the weight of the containers, so that the heaviest doesn't always really go down, and the wrong declaration of weight and content should receive effective sanctions. What can we do as the Netherlands itself in that? What should European, what should the IMO do? Should a dangerous load not be in separate, but accessible containers, on lower stacks, and should we not impose higher requirements on containers with a dangerous load? There is also a call for the equipment of containers with gps and sonaring, so that they are easier to trace. Once again, what can we, as the Netherlands, do about it and what should we do about it at European level? Then the plastic granules. In the long term, they actually appear to be the environmental problem of this disaster. Shouldn't we just consider it a dangerous substance? GroenLinks wants much stricter conditions and requirements for the transport of these small grains. Our hearing showed that the ILT actually controls little: too little time and too little priority. Sjorren takes time and money and so there is a high risk that the edges will be removed. Is the Minister prepared to tighten up the rules and examine the role of inspection? Why do this kind of heavily loaded ships with dangerous cargo sail so close to a vulnerable nature reserve? My colleagues have already mentioned this. What are the possibilities of allowing these ships, like oil tankers, to take the northern route anyway? And if things do go wrong, how do we ensure that action can be taken faster and more appropriately? Should we not consider such a container disaster much more as an oil spill and should we not allow the same reaction and GRIP structure to apply to it? The cargo is still not known. There's still no public record of what was in it. This remains a secret for voluntary organisations and local authorities, which do organise the clean-up operations. As far as the cargo is concerned, we need to know as soon as possible, so that a plan for clearing up the mess can be made in a targeted and appropriate way. It was poignant to hear a plastic investigator say he doesn't even know what he's investigating. Then there is a specific question to the Minister of LNV about the commitment of fishermen. Couldn't they have been put up for payment much earlier to help clean up? Can't they still get that part? Could the Navy have played a role? Because in the first few days after such a disaster, isn't it about getting everyone mobilized quickly? Finally. I really hope that this disaster is the wake-up call we need to regulate the ever-expanding container shipping more. Stricter demands on cargo, more enforcement, more transparency and faster action if it does go wrong: these are the necessary steps, as far as I am concerned. I really hope that both ministers will see this as well and that there will soon be a plan of action aimed at preventing this in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u7	Thank you very much. I call Mr Schonis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u8	Thank you, Mr President. For lovers of an iPhone: that is without apostrophe nowadays. Mr. Chairman. Last January, during a not even very heavy storm, no less than 342 containers fell off the Zoe. 2.736 tonnes of mainly plastic washed into the vulnerable Wadden Sea. By comparison, these are 273 full garbage trucks. In D66's view, this is an ecological disaster, one whose consequences in the form of washed-up plastic waste will haunt us for years to come. How this disaster could have happened is currently under investigation by the Security Research Council. So today, in my contribution, I would like to consider the consequences of a disaster involving a container ship such as the Zoe. We do not need to wait for this research to be carried out in the short term in order to improve disaster response in the event of a container ship accident in the future. D66 asks the Minister to take three specific measures to make the consequences of a container disaster such as the Zoe more manageable in future. First of all, I would like to mention the establishment of a specific contingency plan. A disaster involving an oil tanker requires swift action. Mrs Kröger referred to this earlier. The Zoe disaster shows that a disaster involving a large container ship can be at least as damaging to the environment and that rapid and adequate action is equally necessary. The hearing in April already mentioned the introduction of a new level of scaling-up: the Green GRIP. How does the Minister view this? Following this disaster, does it intend to review the contingency plans of coastal safety regions? Cleaning up the mess from the Zoe has also happened with the use of volunteers and fishermen in the Wadden region itself. This commitment was quite ad hoc and was initially not coordinated. Is the Minister prepared to consider how to make the use of volunteers in this type of disaster structural in future? Specifically for the Wadden Sea, D66 has previously advocated the establishment of a Wadden Authority, a public body responsible for managing the Wadden Sea area as a whole. What's up with the Wadden Authority? Does the Minister, like D66, see a role for this new authority in coordinating clean-up operations following a container disaster such as the Zoe? It took a long time for the consignment note to surface. In fact, until today it is not entirely clear which cargo was carried in the containers. By digitizing the consignment note, information can be shared more quickly with emergency services. The chipping of containers facilitates the determination of which cargo has been washed away and is already helping to improve the efficiency of shore-based logistics. Does the Minister agree with D66 that the introduction of digital manifests and the chipping of containers should be made mandatory in the short term? Finally, Mr President. As I said, as a result of the Zoe 273 full garbage trucks with mainly plastic waste have ended up in the Wadden Sea. Especially the small plastic granules and styrofoam can hardly be cleaned up when mixing with the sand. That's why this disaster is pushing us right into the facts. A disaster with a container ship full of plastic soon leads to an unmanageable effect. Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Wassenberg wishes to interrupt me on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u9	Mr Schonis said 'finally', so I would like to give him the opportunity to finish his story. Then I just have a question after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u10	Well, come on, I'll finish the final sentences. As a number of people have said, with 260,000 shipping movements per year, the North Sea is one of the busiest sailing routes in the world. Another accident is in a small corner, and a container disaster can happen to all countries in the North Sea. D66 therefore asks the Minister to examine with other North Sea countries whether a ban on the transport of small plastics such as granules and styrofoam in sea containers is feasible. What you don't put in a ship, in case of calamity, can't come out like garbage either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u11	Thank you. Mr. Wassenberg, go ahead,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u12	I did refer to the words 'finally', but a lock can take a very long time or be very short. So that's why I was standing here for a while. Mr Schonis speaks of an ecological disaster. Those are words that I fully agree with. He's also talking about cleaning up and preventing it. Then he talks about a number of technical solutions, such as digitisation and chipping. But what I want to know is this. Of course, we have a channel that is very close to shore and that is very shallow. In a reconstruction, the ship is thought to have hit the bottom and thereby tilted, causing a number of containers to be released. Does Mr Schonis agree with me that in this kind of disaster we should not only look at digitisation and chipping, but that it would be even better if the soil could not be hit, so that the shallow channel, as with oil tankers, will not be used for too large cargo ships? I would very much like to know what Mr Schonis wants. So before he goes on to say that he is very curious about what the Minister thinks, I am curious about that too; I have also asked the Minister, and I would very much like to hear what Mr Schonis thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u13	Mr Schonis has the following comments. I repeat what I just said. When you don't put plastic or Styrofoam in a ship, you don't have the effects of disasters like this. That seems much more important to me. In this case, Mr Wassenberg refers to the northern sailing route. I don't know if that northern sailing route is better for container ships or not. After all, that investigation is still ongoing. I also understand that the wave and depth may have been decisive, that they have caused this disaster. But, yeah, I don't have any information to prove that. So I don't have an opinion on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u14	Of course, it's a lot more than plastic and styrofoam. There were batteries in those containers, too. There are containers of chemicals. God knows what's inside! 'Cause whatever chemicals they are, none of that's been made public. So it's a lot more than just Styrofoam. And by banning styrofoam and plastic, we're not there. So there's a lot more. That's why you can't look at what can and can't pass on a subject. That's why the question: should you say that too large ships shouldn't be allowed in that shallow channel? Oil tankers must not sail there either because they are too large and the risk of disasters is too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u15	Once again, if you say that a ship too large should not pass through such a trench, I would of course agree with you. However, I do not know whether that has been the case here. That's what I'm gonna have to wait for the investigation, and you're actually gonna have to wait for it. You're jumping to conclusions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u16	My question is about plastic granules. I find it very interesting to see if the Netherlands can make agreements with other leading countries about not transporting them by container ship. I do wonder whether Mr Schonis agrees with me that this kind of ball should simply be classified as a dangerous substance in European legislation, so that you can place much more restrictions on transport and on what you can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u17	I did not understand Mrs Kröger's question so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u18	Does Mr Schonis agree with me that we should classify this type of ball as a dangerous substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u19	No, I don't agree with you. In the case of dangerous substances, acute toxic effects on humans or on ecological values are very soon discussed. This may not yet be the case. Here's what I said. You mentioned leading group countries, but I called them North Sea countries. It is nice that Mrs Kröger qualifies countries in the North Sea as leading groups. We have the busiest traffic here when it comes to container ships. We can make arrangements not to transport those little plastics by container ship anymore. When the North Sea countries import this, you will see what has already happened in more places in the world: other countries will automatically follow us. I give the example of Siemens myself sometimes. At the time, the energy labels were introduced. Siemens had a new vacuum cleaner that had to have an A-label in Europe, because that is a European obligation. Siemens was then asked whether they were also going to make a much less energy efficient vacuum cleaner for, for example, Africa. Siemens said, "No, why would we do that? We also want to serve our customers in Africa." So you can see that a European standard is suddenly a world standard. I think that in this case, in other words, for the transport of plastic balls, we could do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u20	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u21	Hence my reference to a leading group of countries, but okay. Mr Schonis now refers to the fact that it has no direct toxic effects, but the debate on microplastics is about persistent, long-term effects on ecology. Should we not say, as we do for certain dangerous substances under REACH, that they are persistent substances for a long time? Shouldn't we include the microplastics?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u22	It could be. As part of this breakaway, we could ask to take this with us. I can imagine, but first of all I want you to prevent this kind of uncontrolled effects from happening by simply not putting it in there. Then we will see if it is desirable to impose such a ban, because plastics are of course also used in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u23	Mr Schonis called for a number of preventive and harm reduction measures. That sounds great to me. Now the association of Dutch and Belgian coastal communities has sent a letter, accompanied by a resolution containing a number of concrete measures to reduce damage and prevent it. How does Mr Schonis view these proposals from the coastal communities? Is he willing to embrace it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u24	I am prepared to embrace in the context of prevention all measures that would help to prevent the effects of a disaster such as this, because they are therefore not manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u25	Also the specific measures mentioned by the association of coastal municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u26	What specific measures are you referring to? It's a list, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u27	Yes, exactly, from that list in the resolution that was adopted. It calls for a number of national and international measures to reduce damage and prevent it. That is what I am referring specifically to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u28	Yes, I can hear you, but what measures are you referring specifically to in that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u29	Mr President, it seems practical to me that I should like to take this up with Mr Schonis in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u30	Yes, I think it would be wise for you to explain that in your term, then we have had that. Thank you for your input, Mr. Schonis. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Wadden Sea is a beautiful piece of the Netherlands, for which the PVV is committed with heart and soul. It is therefore sad that this container disaster has caused damage and nuisance to animals and nature. Mr. Chairman. The efforts of the many volunteers to combat pollution were inspiring and we can also be proud of the use of emergency services and Defence. The PVV would therefore also like to know from the Minister how it stands with its promise to allow volunteers to participate through good management in the fight against incidents. What steps have been taken to shape this? Mr. Chairman. The PVV would also like to give our great salvagers a heartbeat. They don't get much on the news, but move mountains with work to clean our seas. They deserve a big compliment. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there is always room for improvement. For example, the Wadden Society expresses its concerns about cooperation in the crisis phase of the disaster. An option to better shape this in the future is to create, for example, a Wadden Authority. The PVV would like to know from the Minister what she thinks of this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Other nature organisations also express their concerns and the PVV shares those concerns, because we can and should simply be better maintained on our waters. We need to be sure that container ships have secured their cargo properly, that the ships are using the right shipping routes and that it is possible to locate containers anywhere via the chip system that has been mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Our concerns are clearly expressed, and today the Minister can show that she is on top of preventing this kind of disaster. The PVV is therefore curious whether concrete measures have already been implemented. The biggest annoyance is that there has been a sympathetic ear in politics over and over again in this type of major incident, but that actions and changes have been carried out. That is why the PVV wants action and we hope that the Minister will be in the same position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u32	Thank you. Mr von Martels has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u33	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the CDA, too, I would like to say that I would like to pay tribute to the many volunteers who have shown how valuable they think that the Wadden Sea and the Wadden Islands can offer in a good way what they have always offered. I would like to pay a great deal of tribute to that. The PVV has also given that compliment and we fully agree with it. The use of defence should also be mentioned once again, because it is wonderful what they have done. But now the question is how did all this happen? The investigations of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the ILT and the OVV into the disaster are still ongoing. It is perhaps conceivable that we will be back here in a few months to evaluate exactly what has happened. Ten years ago, the inspection concluded that half of the inspected ships in the port of Rotterdam did not comply with the loading rules. It may be better than it was ten years ago, but I ask the Minister what improvements she thinks are still possible and conceivable. Mr. Chairman. It has surprised us greatly but also disturbed us that it took two weeks to know how many containers the MSC Zoe had lost, and that the ship's consignment note did not immediately become public. As a result, it is unknown which dangerous substances have been released. That really has to be different and that data must be available immediately. Does the Minister share that conviction? What does the Minister think of the idea of forcing trackers or sensors into the containers so that they can be located on the sea floor? Ships tend to take the shortest route. Saves costs. There are two sailing routes above the Wadden Islands. The MSC Zoe initially chose the shallower, but shorter and therefore cheaper route above the islands along. Only after the cargo went overboard, the course was shifted and the ship continued through the deeper, northern trajectory. The opinions on what is the best route are divided. The Waddenburg masters believe that the ships should not sail directly above the islands in relatively shallow waters. The Coast Guard could then conduct the ships to the northern route. However, the Coast Guard says that lost containers are more difficult to store at sea. There's no harm in stepping up traffic control. Especially in bad weather, the choice for a route should be clear. The Coast Guard is already interfering with ships if they don't trust it. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Then the volunteers. There were plenty of helping hands when it became clear how much crap washed up on the beaches. I told you, heartwarming initiatives came to fruition. But unfortunately, there was no line in it. There was no directing. The islands, the Wadden provinces, the land managers, the nature organisations, Rijkswaterstaat, they are involved but nobody is going over it. Does the Minister share that image? There has also been talk of a green GRIP, so that authorities can really go ahead in the event of ecological emergencies. Does the Minister wish to raise this with her colleague? Then there's the cost situation. The company of MSC Zoe says it wants to pay all the costs, but can the island communities recover the costs incurred on the shipping company? Does the Minister have a long-term picture of environmental damage? How do you calculate the less visible pollution caused by millions of tiny plastic spheres? We are also thinking of fishermen who catch the mess or who are left behind with broken nets. The Minister supports the Fishing for Litter project, which means that fishermen collect waste that they receive when fishing in their nets and then deliver it to shore for processing. These fishermen can and want to provide part of the solution to the problem, but they do need financial assistance. In the project Fishing for Litter, fishermen, ports, municipalities and waste processors work together to collect and process the waste from the North Sea. In this way, each year between 250 and 300 tonnes of material are reduced ashore. They do that with a budget of €90,000. Later that was reduced to €60,000. My question to the Minister is: can this be brought back to the old level? That leaves me within eight seconds of my speaking time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Wassenberg has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u35	I am giving Mr von Martels some extra time, because I would like to ask him the same question I asked Mr Schonis, with a slightly different introduction. Mr Von Martels talks about the shallow southern and the deep northern route. That's what I've been working on. That southern one is the TE route. Tanker ships are not allowed to sail there because of the risk of disasters when they hit the bottom. Then it is not said: if you lose your oil there, it is easier to clean up than at the northern route. If container ships are actually too large for that route, similar to those large tanker ships, does Mr von Martels agree with me that you should not allow them there? You might be able to find the cargo sooner if you lose her, but the chances of that cargo being lost are much smaller on the northern route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u36	This debate is getting deeper and deeper, and that is a good thing, because it is important. The MSC Zoe had a depth of sixteen meters. You might wonder if that's admissible in the waters close to the Wadden Islands. I fully agree with you on this point. We know the dimensions of the ships. You have to see which ships can take that shorter, cheaper route and which can't. It does not seem to me that it is difficult to set that in standards and standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u37	Thank you for your answer and your term. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the night of 1 to 2 January 2019, the container ship MSC Zoe lost 342 containers; we heard it on a regular basis. A disaster for the ecosystem of the Wadden Sea and the North Sea. The lost containers have caused havoc in the water and on the beaches. In the meantime, if I read the Minister's letter correctly, 284 containers have been recovered. In total, more than 1.1 million kilos of waste have been disposed of. The two containers of dangerous substances have not yet been found. In the meantime, we're months away. Are those containers safe by now? These two lost containers with very dangerous substances give us the most concern. One container contained 160 bags of 25 kg Perkadox; I had never heard of it. A full bag is washed up on Schiermonnikoog and on Borkum some empty bags are washed up. With certainty, therefore, Perkadox has ended up in the marine environment. The quick scan of the University of Wageningen shows that this affects invertebrates and fish. Can the Minister comment on this? The waste on the beaches is cleaned up thanks to the use of volunteers and soldiers, but parts of the beach are still not clean. Small pieces of plastic and styrofoam pellets are difficult to remove. The Minister states that MSC Zoe is responsible for the disposal route. According to the Minister, how has this process gone so far? Has there been adequate action at all times? Is the Minister satisfied with the communication so far between MSC Zoe and Rijkswaterstaat? The plastic in our ecosystem can lead to asphyxiation, internal injuries, blockages. Our eyes are on the whale with kilos of plastic in its stomach. We people need to deal with the environment much more carefully. Microplastics and nanoplastics can enter the human food chain. 50PLUS has taken note of the Package of Measures Cleaning up incident MSC Zoë. The coordinator of Rijkswaterstaat remains active until 18 months after the last container is recovered. Is there any way to check when that last container was recovered? And is there going to be an evaluation of the disposal route, or is that going to happen in the future? Has the research design been completed to investigate the impact of this incident on the ecosystem? There is a report to the Wadden Region Regielege, but I assume that there is also a report to the House of Representatives? It has just been said that the network of coastal municipalities has made suggestions for the long-term approach. I'll just mention them. Method of loading and securing containers. Set up and implement an adequate system for vessel traffic management. Mandatory that sea containers be provided with a chip that shows on the outside of the container the contents of the container and whether it contains dangerous or toxic substances. And the obligation to apply GPS markers to dangerous cargo containers. Can the Minister comment on each of these points, because these seem to me to be very logical points. 50PLUS wonders why this has not been introduced long ago. My colleague also referred to the project Fishing For Litter. That is a nice project where 300 tonnes of waste are collected every year. This must, of course, continue to be the case. Can the Minister ensure the continuity of this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u39	Thank you, too. Mrs De Vries has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of January, over the Wadden Islands, a total of 342 containers were overboarded by MSC Zoe. Some of the contents ended up on the Wadden Islands and on the Wadden Coast. That's terrible, of course. But it was also nice to see how everyone went straight to work: municipalities, provinces, Rijkswaterstaat, mountainers, soldiers, fishermen and many volunteers from all over the country. They cleaned up the first mess. For our part, we appreciate that. The offer of volunteers to clean up the waste has been large. But let us also be clear that the work of volunteers must always be complementary to that of professionals. Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes that whoever caused this mess, the company MSC, must pay all the costs, not only the costs of the authorities, but also the costs of fishermen and other shipping. The shipowner is and will remain responsible. Is it true that in the Maritime Accidents Act there is still a ceiling on the amount, and that ceiling will not be lifted until 1 July of this year due to a recent legislative amendment? The VVD assumes that the shipping company simply keeps its promises and statements it has made. The VVD assumes that the shipping company cleans up the mess and compensates for the damage, even if the compensation exceeds the legal ceiling. Rijkswaterstaat coordinates the liability of the shipowner. We are still hearing the necessary criticism, from fishermen, but also from the municipalities concerned. How's this going? How's the communication set up? How did the Minister arrange the meeting? This just needs to be arranged properly. Parties must have one clear point of contact. Is that what's going on? Can fishermen be compensated for future damage to nets or vessels by containers not yet recovered? That seems reasonable to us. Mr. Chairman. Future damage to nature must be limited as much as possible, not only direct damage, but also long-term damage. There are particular fears about the effects of the purfoam balls. What approach does the Minister of Nature take and what measures are being taken? The days after the overboarding of the shipping containers there was criticism of the role of Rijkswaterstaat. The Ministry would be too invisible. Can the Minister respond and reflect on that? What was and has been the alignment with the security region? The Fryslân Safety Region had the coordination. The VVD thinks this is right, also for the future. The VVD is not in favour of a separate green GRIP. If things have not gone well in the current way, then it needs to be adjusted and/or supplemented. Is it true that the security region has an independent evaluation carried out? When will it be ready and how will the House of Representatives be informed about this? Finally, on this point. To what extent are ships and shipping companies currently obliged to report the overboarding of containers? How is this settled and how are the authorities and parties directly concerned informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u41	I hear Mrs De Vries say that we in the VVD are not so charmed by a green GRIP. That is, of course, a position, but I also heard her say in this respect: all damage must be properly recovered and good agreements must be made. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that at the moment when we do have a green GRIP and we can limit the damage as much as possible, the shipowner and the insurer have lost much less cost? So one of those green GRIPs should talk to her, right? I don't understand this reaction very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u42	I do not know exactly what Mr Schonis means by a green GRIP. I understand that we are doing something quite different, new besides the current situation of the security region and the current GRIP structure. I don't think that's a good thing. I think that a security region is perfectly equipped to respond to disasters and problems that exist. It may be that very specific things come out of this that require an adjustment in the procedures that exist. Of course you have to look at that. I am prepared to do so, but to put something completely new on top of what is already there and where there is a lot of knowledge, experience and expertise, does not seem to us to be the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u43	Nor do I question the expertise and experience of security regions. I can only observe, with Mrs De Vries herself, that a container disaster is a type of disaster, a type of disaster in which the effects are very quickly out of control. It turns out so, because those plastic spheres and all that other charge spread over a very large area in no time. For oil spills, which are similar, we do have a separate protocol. We don't have that for container disasters. Does the VVD agree with me that for this type of disaster we should have what I called 'green GRIP', including for the manageability and mitigation of damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u44	I still do not understand whether Mr Schonis wants something special besides what has already been absorbed in the region and which in most cases works quite well. I also think it is important to have an independent evaluation of how this has been done and what needs to be done better in possible procedures and processes, in order to be able to respond to these issues as well. But I don't feel like putting up something else for that. Maybe we're talking side by side and we're talking about the same thing, but I think that coordination in these matters should be primarily with the security region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u45	Let's get to the same point. In my opinion, the simple question is: should we treat a container disaster in all protocols and do I know what more as an oil spill, given the ecological implications?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u46	I believe that we must have an efficient approach and an efficient approach to which we are acting and responding. The security region has taken on this coordinating role. I want to see what comes out of that evaluation. Maybe that's where things come from that need to be better. Then we can always see if adjustments are needed, but I would like to use that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u47	I understand that we can wait for an evaluation to see how you're gonna change it. I do not know whether this is so much about the role of the security region as about the ability to scale up quickly and deploy all possible resources quickly, as can already be done in the event of an oil spill. I mean, you actually have to consider a container disaster as an oil spill, and then we're going to talk about what that means for all protocols, procedures, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u48	I think it's gonna be a bit of a repeat of moves. Above all, we want to join the existing structures and stay as close to them as possible, rather than creating something completely new. We also need to see if things went well. I didn't get any signals that a lot of things went wrong. Of course, some adjustments may be needed in the way they are currently being applied, but I have not received any signals that a lot has gone wrong. Of course, there is always criticism during such a process. Communication is always complicated too, but I do think that the security region has done its coordinating work there well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u50	It is important that, first of all, the causes of the overboarding of containers become clear. Run the ship through a shallow route? Weren't the shipping containers well-stuck? Are the security measures good enough? Only when you know that can you see what measures you should take, although I understand the first reflex to create new rules in view of the impact. Any measures can only be taken in an international context. However, the VVD is so realistic to see that shipping and container transport are just part of it. Transport must, of course, be carried out safely and responsibly. The VVD first wants the investigations of Germany, Panama and the Security Research Council, which always advises us on these kinds of security issues. When will these investigations be completed? And can this be accelerated? It is clear, however, that in 2010 the inspection already found that there is a problem with the fixing of containers. Only 46% met. What's the deal with that? And what enforcement and inspection has taken place since 2010 and 2014, when the VVD has also asked questions about this in connection with previously overboarded containers? And what will happen there in the coming years? Finally, Mr President. Once again, our thanks and appreciation for the commitment of all those involved in cleaning up the mess and reducing the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u51	Mrs De Vries says: no new structures and no more rules. I get that. Next thing you know, you're building up a whole new system. My question to Mrs De Vries is as follows: does she think that this has been a well-oiled machine and that this disaster has been well-organised within the current organisation and with the current measures? Or does she agree with me that this has been a very incident-driven approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u52	As an outsider from here, from The Hague, I find that very complicated to judge. I therefore believe that it is important for the security region itself to carry out an independent evaluation, to properly evaluate it with the parties involved and who have experienced it and to see what should be better for the future. Because you must always learn from these kinds of coordinated actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u53	My question is whether we should not be more receptive to signals from governments. It is precisely from the municipal domain that a green GRIP has been advocated. It has also been established that a lot of parties are responsible, with the result that almost no one is really exclusively responsible. Doesn't Mrs De Vries think that if these investigations have been carried out later, we should look at them thoroughly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u54	In both cases, with regard to both the security region and the Security Research Council, I have indicated that we should take them seriously. We have experts and we have to take them seriously. The same applies to the Security Research Council. We asked them to look at that professionally. I also think you should take those advice seriously when they come. But let's give the Security Research Council some time to come up with those advices. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to the security region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u55	Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u57	I call Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Wadden area: a valuable nature reserve, declared by the public in 2016 as the most beautiful nature reserve in the Netherlands. Since 2009, it has been on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Nowhere in the world is there such a large contiguous ecosystem where low tide and tide of sandbanks and a special species richness has emerged. There are not only tourists; there are also millions of birds to forage. It hurts that this area was affected by the MSC Zoe disaster. My group would first of all like to thank everyone who helped to clean the Wadden as well and as angry as it went, especially all the volunteers. Without them, the impact of this disaster would have been much greater. Mr. Chairman. To this day, we have not been able to locate exactly all containers. Does the Minister also consider that the loss of containers by a ship should be reported to the authorities and that we should take precautions, such as chipping containers in order to always be able to trace them? Not only is many containers unknown where they have gone; we also do not know what is in them, what the contents of those containers are. All we know is what the content is. For the sake of business interests, the loading lists shall not be published. The Minister has made a trade-off between business interests and nature interests. My question is: how does the Minister weigh the interests of nature? Can it imagine that there are exceptional situations, such as this natural disaster, where it is necessary, at least for the authorities, to know exactly what the cargo is? When it comes to the routes, I can answer questions that have already been asked. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another group: the fishermen. They deserve great appreciation because they carry a lot of waste from the sea. The subsidy pot of Fishing for Litter is now empty because of the much larger amount of waste. My question, I think, is that it is for the Minister of LNV to ask whether the subsidy pot can be filled again, perhaps also by making agreements with the shipowner, because the amount of waste has increased considerably as a result of the container disaster that took place. I see there's been an interruption, but I'm gonna finish the point. I have received many e-mails, including from fishermen who have broken nets due to the waste in the sea. Will this damage be reimbursed by the shipping company? And is it clear where the fishermen can come forward? I often get signals that the handling of claims is not smooth. What can the Minister do about it? The same fishermen often want to help with the location of containers and the disposal of waste, but they feel they are being obstructed. Does the Minister know these signals and can she say today that fishermen who have, of course, taken the necessary precautions from the ILT will be granted an exemption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u59	Mr Dik-Faber asked the Minister about the balance between nature interests and business interests and whether or not to make such a load list public. Actually, I'm very curious about her own answer. Shouldn't you insist that those lists become public in the event of a disaster such as the Wadden disaster, so that all the organisations involved in cleaning up the information are in stock?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u60	I asked the Minister that question. Actually, asking the question is answering him. I would very much like those lists to be made public to those who benefit from them, to the authorities, to the security region, to the National Water State and to bodies such as the Wadden Authority, which is still to be set up. At the same time, I'm not a lawyer. I have therefore also put the questions to the Minister because I also want to hear her story. I want to hear why she made a certain choice. Then I'll weigh that in. But I can imagine a lot of it, because generally speaking, it just isn't really useful if we don't know exactly what's in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u61	It's completely bizarre; that's how I'd like to classify it. But I actually hear my colleague say: provided that this can be done legally, we must set up the rules so that those lists in the event of a disaster become directly public to the parties they need to carry out their work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u62	I didn't ask the question for nothing. I can very well imagine that I am going to answer the question that Mrs Kröger is now asking me with yes, but I am not yet able to look at all the ins and outs. So I would like to make it part of this evening's debate and perhaps, after this evening's debate, to obtain further information on it, but these are directions of thought that I also have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u63	I belong to the Christian Union, but actually Chamber-wide, very much praised everyone who has worked to combat this disaster and to clean up as quickly as possible. Mrs Dik-Faber also raised the question of what the Minister could do with regard to the resolution of the damage and the like. I want to go one step further. I have also included in my own contribution that in the event of such a disaster there should be a compensation fund and that in the public interest the government can also guarantee costs and damages that have been incurred, so that salvagers and fishermen do not have to conclave with a large private insurer to see whether or not they are paid out. Does the Christian Union agree with me that we should set up such a compensation fund, so that all the salvagers, fishermen and all those who make the costs are ultimately sure that the damage will be paid as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u64	I must confess to you that I am not quite enthusiastic about this point, because it was not the government that caused this disaster, but really that shipowner. I do think that we should put the responsibility and the settlement of damages at the place where the damage was caused, and that is really with the shipping company. Of course, I have a lot of questions to ask, because I do think there should be an easily accessible window where people can go to report their damage. I think that they should be dealt with, but I do not think it should be the intention to say tonight that we are putting the government forward as the first place where people can come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u65	We certainly do not argue for the government to pay out and then do nothing. The next step should then be for the government to tell the shipowner. It's an intermediate step, a compensation fund. That also helps those mountaineers and fishermen in the event of a future disaster. I hope it never comes, but when it comes, a lot of people start wondering: next time it was so difficult and now it's so difficult again. The government can then help with a fund and can then recover the costs from the shipowner, because the government is also much stronger than a small mountaineer against such a shipowner. Does the Christian Union agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u66	Of course, I understand that very well, but at the moment I'm just not ready to say that there should be a compensation fund from the government, so that the government can start battling with the shipping company. Anyway, the question was asked by the SP Group. I am very curious how the Minister will answer this question. Maybe I'll come to other thoughts with a sublime answer from the Minister. We're gonna hear it tonight. Mr. Chairman. The volunteers have proved indispensable. In the event of a disaster of this magnitude, we cannot live without it. The Minister of Infrastructure and Water State has promised to allow volunteers to participate in incident prevention through good management, but the organisation has not yet started. When's the Minister gonna start working on this? Mr. Chairman. Together with D66, the Christian Union has always argued for a single Wadden Authority. I know the Minister is working on this, too. One Wadden Authority can take control in the event of a disaster of this magnitude. Let's hope that's not necessary, but of course it can happen. What is the state of play on the establishment of this Wadden Authority? Finally, Mr President. We do not know what the long-term ecological consequences are. It is a good thing that, in my view, both ministers have research conducted on this issue. My group has two more questions about this. The first question is: is environmental damage now and in the future covered financially? This damage may be identifiable in a few years or maybe even decades; we do not know that. The second question relates to the fact that many fish, birds and other animals have eaten plastic grains. The grains are also almost impossible to clean up. Isn't there an alternative? Can this be investigated? Somewhere the first step has to be taken to phase out the use of Styrofoam. At least now that the Wadden region is so polluted, the Netherlands has good reasons to put this problem on the agenda at national, European and international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u67	Thank you for your input. Finally, Mr Moorlag has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u68	Mr. Chairman. If a wolf dares to walk into the Netherlands from Germany, the interprovincial wolf plan enters into force. This is a fully coordinated approach, a closed plan of 41 pages, a complete plan, which provides the basis for regulations and policy rules. The division of powers is very clear. That's a fully elaborate plan for one wolf. If a ship loses a large cargo and seriously affects the Wadden Sea World Heritage, then we have to establish that there is no coherent plan and that the approach is very incident-driven. There's a lot of uncertainty. It's unclear who's competent. Is it not time to develop a plan such as the one to combat oil spills? Why do we have plans for combating oil disasters and not for these types of disasters, which are very extensive? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the plastic junk, the administrative spaghetti became visible after this disaster. Many parties are responsible and, at the same time, no one is solely responsible. My colleague Gijs van Dijk has argued in the past, and I also hear Mrs Dik-Faber speak about this, for decisive direction in the form of, for example, a Wadden Commissioner. My question to the rulers is: is it not time for us to draw up a coherent plan and is it not time for a Wadden Commissioner to come? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group is deeply concerned about the handling of the damage. It is a good thing that a compensation window has been set up, but private parties such as fishermen must see for themselves how they will recover the damage and be reimbursed for their costs. Does the national attorney also work for the fishermen? The question to the two rulers is: do they think this is an acceptable situation? Is it not desirable to create a pre-financing fund, so that parties who stick their hands up their sleeves and make a lot of effort and make a lot of money, also know that they will be reimbursed? The same applies to the costs incurred by coastal communities. The prospect that costs will have to be incurred for years to come, because pollution can still take place on the salt marshes, beaches and sandbanks for years to come, raises the question: is it not time that we also set up a post-care fund? For how else is it ensured that resources are available for future damage, which may not manifest for five or ten years? Surely it shouldn't be the case that companies and governments have to claim their damages by civil law for years to come? And what do you do when the shipowner goes bankrupt? Again, the question to both directors is: do they share my view that it is time to set up a post-care fund? Finally, Mr President, what are we going to do about prevention? Can we force ships to take the northern sailing route? For example, can we give instruction to lighthouse guards so that in bad weather these ships can give the clue to take the northern route? Mr President, in the event of an interruption, I mentioned it: the association of coastal communities of Belgium and the Netherlands has adopted a resolution containing a number of concrete preventive and harm reduction measures. My question to both ministers is: are they prepared to embrace these measures and incorporate them into national and international legislation? Finally, Mr President. There is a Flemish proverb: whoever acts like a lamb will certainly be eaten by the wolf. I expect the two rulers not to act like passive lambs, but to make a real effort to protect the sea and our Wadden world heritage, and not to leave the individuals, businesses and fellow governments who have worked to fight this disaster in the cold. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u69	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to give the two leaders an opportunity to prepare themselves for the answer. That's why I'm suspending the meeting until 8:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u70	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the pollution of the Wadden Sea caused by an accident involving a container ship. I welcome the Minister of Transport again. Sorry, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. I'm stuck in that old title. The Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality has to do something else, but she will be here in a few minutes. In the second instance, it will answer the question. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u71	Mr. Chairman. On the night of Tuesday 1 January 2019 on Wednesday 2 January 2019 something terrible happened on the Wadden Sea. I think many of us will never forget that. Then the container ship MSC Zoe lost an incredible number of containers in the North Sea north of the Wadden Islands. That turned out to be 342. That has been mentioned several times today. Those containers and their contents have caused havoc on and around the Wadden Islands and the North Sea. I have to say that I must also experience it myself when I visited the affected area on 10 January. Among other things, former colleague Van Gent, who, with her presence here, stressed the importance of the debate, showed me some of this. Many interested parties have made an enormous effort to combat the consequences of the overboarding of these containers. Like all of you, I would like to express once again my broad appreciation, not only for the people who stand for it professionally, but also for all volunteers. I have heard from the islanders that they were sometimes surprised that people from all over the country felt the urge to go to the Wadden to help. It's heartwarming to see how many people have worked for that. Of course, I would also like to express my appreciation for the waterboards involved, the municipalities, the security regions, the land-based nature organisations, the fisheries sector, Defence, the Coast Guard and, of course, our own Rijkswaterstaat. They have all made a very important and indispensable contribution. Unfortunately, it is not yet known how the accident could have happened and what the long-term ecological effects are. There's still a lot of research going on. A number of Members of Parliament have also pointed this out for a while. There is another investigation by the Public Prosecutor into the possible criminal aspects of the incident. There is also an investigation by the Security Research Council into the causes of the incident. We understand that this is expected to be completed by spring 2020. There is also research by the independent Institute of Physical Security into crisis management by the security region and my ministry, respectively. It is expected to be ready this summer. Of course, there is also research on the long-term ecological effects under the direction of the Wadden Academy. I wrote that in my letter, too. The first findings of this are expected at the end of 2019, early 2020, so a bit in winter. Also, there is TNO research that I have commissioned to explore the possibilities to detect containers more easily in the event of incidents and to read the contents of containers electronically or not. As a result of previous contacts, I have already started this investigation. As soon as the results of all these investigations are known, we will of course share them with the Chamber immediately. Unfortunately, we do not know the results of a lot of these investigations yet. You mentioned a lot of topics. I'll just treat it one at a time. So I'm gonna go through the different subjects in the footsteps. A lot has been asked and said about the loading lists. In the media, too, there has been a lot of attention to this in recent times. What about the contents of those containers? All the general information I have on the nature and composition of the products contained in those overboard containers has been made public. What could not be disclosed is the specific product information related to the operation of the companies concerned and information on the marketing of products or the circle of customers or suppliers of the companies using the services of carriers such as MSC and Maersk to transport goods. To give an example, which has been made public, the information is that it concerned cabinets, but not from which store and which brand. That information is considered to be business confidential on the basis of the WOB and has therefore not been made public. This non-public information, which I would like to emphasise, is of course available in the context of the fight against incident and also in the context of ecological research. Therefore, through the security region it has been made available to government parties and to the researchers of the Wadden Academy, who also need this information in order to assess the ecological impact. I have also been asked whether I am prepared to make all the information available in the event of a disaster. Anything that can be shared, with due regard for the WOB application, we will share, but you will have to get permission from the person who has to consent to it on the basis of the WOB. I would also like to make a comment on this. Under the Maritime Accidents Act, the master must report maritime accidents to the Coast Guard as soon as possible and also provide information, so that information is also shared with all emergency services directly involved in the fight. That's what's happened now, so let's talk about the cargo information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u72	I understand what the Minister is saying. The example of the cabinets is very striking. I can imagine that as a volunteer you do not want to know at all who owned the closet and where it is going, but it is important to know what the composition of the closet is. With a cabinet you can think that it's made of wood, particle board or metal, but I think it's important to know what the product composition is and what raw materials and materials end up in the environment, as part of clean-up operations. What exactly is that about in the WOB? Has that been made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u73	Frankly, I don't know if every product is exactly on the loading list, so to speak. I don't think so. However, in so far as all such information can be made available on the loading lists under the WOB, it shall be made publicly available, and in so far as it cannot be disclosed, it shall in any event be shared with the safety region and the safety authorities, so that they know if there are dangerous substances and so on. That is why we could now find out that there were two containers in which there were also dangerous substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u74	So the Minister is actually saying that it is impossible to list exactly what materials a product is composed of, but when it comes to dangerous substances it is well known, especially to the authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u75	Yeah, that's how the rules work, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u76	In my view, the problem is that certain substances that are classified as dangerous, for example in Europe under REACH, are specifically mentioned, but if it says that the container contains household articles, they can be made up of all kinds of substances that can have long-term toxic effects if they come into the environment. It is not just those two containers containing specific REACH hazardous substances but the dangerous substances contained in all those articles contained in all those other containers. And that information wasn't shared, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u77	There is specific regulation for dangerous substances; what should and should not be reported. That's also known from the loading lists. In the case of other substances, you also assume that they are not dangerous, otherwise they will have to be reported. I also have a My Little Pony on my desk, because I got it to keep me sharp after this disaster. I'm not sure what all the ingredients are. It is not nice to see them lying on the beach in large quantities but they are not dangerous substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u78	That is exactly why those lists should be known. It is not just those dangerous substances that are registered under REACH and which are subject to a very specific protocol. If you're coordinating a team with volunteers, it's important that you know what kind of stuff washes up and that you can make your plan on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u79	That was also made public, but not exactly who it belongs to. Nor have I mentioned the issue of business sensitive information for nothing. I mentioned the example of the cabinets. It says there are cupboards in a container but not from what brand, where they come from and where they go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u80	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u81	The Minister now mentions the example of the cabinets three times in a row, but when it comes to household articles, for example, you know as an organisation that is cleaning up on that beach, absolutely not what exactly washes up, what the different elements of it are and what the priority in it is. The problem, in my view, is that it is only a global description of the contents of those containers. Shouldn't we make a much more specific move, so that you can also make your plan for clean-up actions more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u82	So that's another problem. Anything that can be made public is also made public but not business-sensitive information. If you say that we need to know exactly what is meant in household articles, then you come to the question of how you deal with the contents of containers internationally and how specifically that needs to be documented, but that is a different problem from what you then make public. The lists of cargo as known have been shared, except for the business sensitive, competitive information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u83	Still, about when substances are dangerous and not. We are talking about chemicals, but we can also talk about batteries and accumulators, for example. They are not dangerous, but at the moment they get into the water they are indeed dangerous. What about that? Is that all the information you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u84	Everything that was on the loading lists that was not business sensitive is indeed all shared with the security region and all relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u85	So also whether, for example, they were batteries and batteries and which batteries and batteries? Well, then it's a big deal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u86	The degree of detail in terms of the types of batteries and batteries, I can't tell you in this way, but the information on the loading lists is shared with the safety region. What could then be made public on the basis of the WOB has also been made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u87	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u88	A battery is not dangerous, but hundreds of thousands of batteries in the water are dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u89	That is why it is also important that this information on those loading lists should be in the hands of those involved in the fight against disasters. That has happened and they have been able to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u90	We have now, I think, heard eight times that the loading lists have been shared, but the problem is that the information on those loading lists is very brief. I see here, for example, that 700 containers that were left on the Zoe contained chemicals. Only chemical products were mentioned and this was not further specified. What if they fell in the Wadden Sea, too? So you have a loading list that says this, but that doesn't really mean anything. So the point is that the information on those loading lists is very brief, while we need to know as soon as possible what is actually going to happen in our environment and our nature, so that the security regions and all those volunteers know what to do. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u91	That is a very different point. Of course, I also want to know exactly what is in every ship. In this case, the ship was already in transit. I think we should look closely at how these laws and regulations work internationally. That is why I and, I presume, you are also looking forward to the results of all these investigations. Then we know better what caused this and what measures we need. However, it is of course also useful to look at the regulations concerning the publication of what should be on a loading list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u92	Yes, the investigations are running and the reports are coming: how did it all happen? Of course, I am curious to see that, but that is a bit different from the point that I think you have been trying to make, namely that anyone who works on this should know what is actually in those containers. From those loading lists that is not entirely clear, is the conclusion. So how are we going to make that clear? And that is why I have also said in my speech: business-sensitive information, I understand, but if there is a disaster, then the choice must be made for the safety of the environment and human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u93	Yes, I very much agree with Mr Laçin. You always want to know exactly what to look for when you have to deal with a disaster. As far as I am concerned, however, this is also part of the investigation: has there been enough information on those loading lists? Or do we say afterwards that we would have liked to know more about this? That is one of the aspects that you can take to the future: do you need to do something with it in IMO context? I think even wider than at IMO level, because these are containers which are then transported on a lorry. So the rules on information on loading lists on containers will be part of the whole: does that need to be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u94	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u95	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the conclusion is already clear: there is not enough on those loading lists. If you only know from hundreds of containers that it says "chemical products" and that is no longer specified, then the conclusion can already be drawn that it is not clear and that it must therefore be made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u96	I also want to check whether the rules have been followed that this information is so stated: was that enough? Have the shippers also complied with the rules in this respect? These are all things that need to be looked at first, and then you can see if you need to do something about it a, in an international context and b, what it should be. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the salvage operation. The owner of the MSC Zoe, the Mediterranean Shipping Company, I say only once fully, was held liable by the State shortly after the incident under the Maritime Accidents Act. MSC is, of course, responsible for cleaning up the remains of the containers and the cargo. They also started working on this soon after the containers were knocked over, and for that they also took up a storage facility. The tracking and storage of the 342 overboard containers and their contents are still in progress. Until 10 May 2019, a total of 288 parts of unique containers are stored. "Share of" I say, because they are not always neatly found in their entirety; usually not even, because of course they have actually fallen off a kind of apartment building. In total, more than 2.1 million kilos of waste and waste from containers have been removed from the sea and from the beaches. Of course, that's an incredible amount. The one container containing the dangerous substance dibenzoyl peroxide has been located and stored. But I also reported to the Chamber earlier, and Mrs Van Brenn also recalled that the container in question thus became open at the time of the ship's fall. That's what we found in the storage room. And at the storeroom, those bags of dibenzoyl peroxide were no longer found in that container, nor were they found on the sea floor nearby. The other container containing dangerous substances, which contains lithium batteries, has not yet been located. The survey of the entire area of about 3,000 km.. just for the understanding: that is about twice the province of Utrecht... is completed this week. This then maps the entire area and the possible objects from the MSC Zoe on the seabed in those 3,000 km. That survey resulted in an overview of objects that may have come from the MSC Zoe, because we have already noticed that other items have also been brought up. For example, we saw a very nice shipwreck that clearly didn't come from the MSC Zoe. We now have a so-called master target list. The storage facility works on behalf of MSC that whole list and stores those objects. That work, as I said, is still going on. MSC has announced that it is expected to complete the disposal of the objects of that master target list in the short term. That's what the calm weather we have now is helping with. But with that, of course, the total clean-up operation is far from complete. I'm sure it'll take some time. For example, what has been decided today, as I understand it, by MSC is going to be a test of fishing material from the sea floor and the beaches will still have to be structurally checked for wash-up waste in the near future. Rijkswaterstaat controls the effort and result of MSC. I trust MSC will continue to take responsibility and do its utmost to clean up as much material as possible. We will continue to appeal to them as well. Mrs Van Brenk asked about the containers containing dangerous substances. So one was found, but unfortunately without the content, and the other not yet, unfortunately. We hope that will happen, but it hasn't. Is there an evaluation of the recovery route? That's what Mrs. Van Brenk asked. Yes. The salvage operation won't be completed until that survey is complete. That is what we hope to achieve soon. If the target list is finished with objects, identification and storage at sea have taken place and the pilot of fishing to the smaller débris, which we are also going to try, is executed, there is still the control of the storage room. It consists of an inspection survey at sea, an administrative check and a final report check. If we have all done so, we will, of course, evaluate that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u97	It specifically states that there will be control until 18 months after the last container has been found. We are far from there, as it turns out, but will continue to be, even if we can't find that last container?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u98	Yeah, we're assuming that those 18 months are really gonna be necessary. We are, of course, in conversation with the shipowner and that conversation will also continue, because we know that we have seen in other disasters in the past that you can never continue until the very last part is found from a container. So you'll have to come to an agreement with each other about when it's finished. You're also gonna have to agree on follow-up damage, because what if you find another container in three or four years? Then you still want to be able to tell stories on MSC. All this will have to be worked out very well, including with the insurer. We will have to make very good agreements on this, because our commitment is, of course, to recover all the costs from the person responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u99	I really read in the Minister's letter that it continues until 18 months after the last container has been found, but perhaps I read it wrong. You say, "What if we find another container in three years?" Does it still apply: three years plus 18 months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u100	There's a difference between the salvage operation, where you really keep looking, and the stories of the damage, when something really proves to come from the MSC Zoe. If after eighteen months, but after twenty months, a container washes up somewhere, then of course we're just going to do the damage on MSC Zoe stories. But the active search stops at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u101	The advantage of an iPad like that is that you can take it to the interrupt microphone and read the text. I had heard the story before; it was in the newspaper. There were phone calls on the beach in the French Finistère plastic Garfield up to 30 years after a similar container disaster 30 years ago. I therefore hope, Minister, that these agreements will last for at least 30 years, because the effects in France are evidently up to 30 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u102	Of course, you can't limit that. So it is also important that we make these agreements very well with the MSC Zoe. So far they have also said that they will compensate for all the damage. We'll keep them on that deal, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u103	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u104	Mr Moorlag hesitated to interrupt, but now he comes forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u105	I hear the Minister say that the sea floor is basically being searched until the last object is found. We're gonna do a survey on the beaches now. But what about the sandbanks and the salt marshes? I haven't found anyone there who's really looking for plastic toys. Could it be that the organisations that manage the salt marshes will still suffer damage, because, as Mr Schonis says, it is possible that after many years all kinds of crap will emerge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u106	Mr. Chairman. This is a very nice little bridge from Mr Moorlag to the part I would like to bring up now. That's cleaning up and cleaning up the beaches. I was only talking about the underwater mountains. So I would like to go into that a little bit more. In the first days of the incident, Rijkswaterstaat assumed that responsibility...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u107	Minister, I'm interrupting. Mr Moorlag wanted to make another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u108	I have mentioned the word "beach," but I miss the sandbanks and salt marshes. These are areas that are very difficult to access.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u109	I understand the Minister will come back to that separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u110	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u111	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u112	In the first days, of course, Rijkswaterstaat focused on the safety of shipping, preventing collisions with floating containers and ensuring that gas pipes on the sea floor were not affected by containers. Of course, it was also about identifying the containers with dangerous substances and storing the containers in the Wadden Sea, on the sandbanks and in the sea holes. So the primary focus was simply to prevent further accidents and damage. Meanwhile, of course, all those volunteers, people from Defense et cetera and the municipalities were busy cleaning up the beaches. The water boards have concentrated on the dikes and together with the nature managers the attention has been paid to the salt marshes. The ecological but also social impact of all that waste on the beach was and is, of course, still great. Most of the larger waste has been disposed of with the use of the Wadden municipalities and many volunteers, but of course those beaches are not clean yet. That is what many Members of Parliament have said. Those little plastic particles and those plastic spheres remain a concern. There are still many spots on the beach with plastic particles and styrofoam grains in the sand. Recently there has also been experimented with the machine removal of those small plastic particles. There are so-called positive results, so we go back to those attempts after the breeding season. With all the parties involved, a plan of action was adopted in mid-February under the coordination of the Rijkswaterstaat with the aim of cleaning and cleaning, and I repeat, it is only once again a period of at least 18 months. Most of the actions of this plan are now underway. As a result, it is ensured that not only the waste already washed up is disposed of, but also that waste which will be washed up will be disposed of quickly and properly. The cost of all these measures will of course be charged to the MSC Zoe. I just said that we held the owner of the MSC Zoe liable for the damage caused on 4 January. Rijkswaterstaat then offered to coordinate the settlement of damages for other authorities and land-based nature organisations and also to assist them in submitting claims to MSC. For this purpose, a compensation counter has been set up at RWS. The submission of the clearly substantiated and complete claims must now also be a priority. RWS is happy to help with that. Of course, the actual justification of the claim must be domestically stated: the receipts are provided by the other authorities and the land-based nature organisations. The faster the well-founded and complete files are submitted, the quicker the payments can of course be made. 25 parties have now come forward at the RWS Damage Window. Thirteen of them have so far actually made a claim. Last week the first complete files were received. They have now also been submitted to MSC. So that process is getting under way. I have been asked whether I am prepared to set up a compensation fund. A fund is not exactly the solution direction we are thinking of. A fund, no matter how you shape it, cannot change the fact that every claim relating to cleaning costs simply needs to be substantiated. That is why we have set up the joint window. The owner is held responsible and he has also indicated that he wants to handle the damage neatly. There should be no need for a fund in this respect. Again, we've only had the first well-founded claims in for a week or a week and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u113	Good to hear that the first fully substantiated claims have now been sent. I know that this minister has recently been working with a mountaineer, including at my request. I've been there, and I've talked to people there. They suggested that they really are in uncertainty as to whether they are getting their money, yes or no, and whether they can declare the damage. I understand that the Minister is not thinking directly of a compensation fund. But suppose there are a lot of problems with the payout because the insurance company of MSC ultimately does not pay or partly pays. Is the Minister prepared to meet the people who make the costs, not only the land managers, but also, for example, the salvagers and fishermen, and then to take the money out to the insurer himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u114	I have learned by now not to go into too much as-dan questions. I have no reason to think this is necessary. The shipowner states that he simply wants to compensate for the damage. There are good conversations. We're just starting that process, so let's just see how that goes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u115	No, I'm not necessarily from the dance scenarios either. These are just signals that we hear from people who have been actively working there, so I am not making them up myself. I would like to stress once again that this is really about the public interest: our waterways, our waterways, our environment and nature. As a country, therefore, we are very much in favour of this being cleared up as soon as possible. Hence my request to the Minister to see what role the government can play in this, should there be any problems. So I'm already getting signals from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u116	Since the process is just beginning to run smoothly and we have just received the first well-founded claims and have continued to MSC, I would like to wait and see. If they suddenly don't pay anything, then we have another situation, but we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u117	I appreciate the efforts being made. On the other hand, I am concerned that it is not a final approach, not on two points. There are simply parties that have spontaneously entered into work or are suffering damage. For example, fishermen who have broken their nets or organisations using unsolicited equipment to clean up the mess. It should give you the comfort that their bills are paid. The second point is that this can have a long-term effect. Mr Schonis recalled that as well. For example, we have eternal aftercare funds for this type of risk at landfills. So why not fund-raising for after-care, for damage that only manifests after a long period of time? Why not provide a low-threshold facility to compensate the direct costs of fishermen and other parties who clean up the mess, where the Empire subsequently submits the claim to the insurer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u118	Mr Schouten will come back to the specific arrangements concerning fishermen, but you are absolutely right. If damage occurs years later, the shipping company has indicated that it will simply compensate the damage. So I have no reason to doubt that for the time being and to think that they would not. The well-founded claims are just beginning to come. We'd be happy to support everyone in that. That's what RWS is ready for, day and night, but let's really let that process take its course first and not assume in advance all the scenarios that it may not be paid or will only be paid far too late. I would really just like to give that a chance, because so far they have been constructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u119	I think there's been a repeat, Mr. Moorlag. I would therefore like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u120	I haven't asked a follow-up question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u121	I mean, I'm cool, but maybe I'm gonna get a little louder later, 'cause it's getting late. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u122	If the Minister has so much comfort in that, then surely you can be for the harming parties? If the Minister really believes that the damage can be claimed, I would simply do so. I would also like to make a comparison that the Minister of LNV might be able to comment on. If there's a bit of pork damage from geese, we have a complete fauna fund available. And now both fishermen and other parties who suffer damage, including future damage, do have the uncomfortable feeling that it is not covered up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u123	I hope that we will be able to remove these concerns in the near future. I am still confident that we will be able to get the shipping company to carry out its task properly. So far, they're saying we're all gonna pay for the damage. We are happy to help the co-governments and nature-management bodies, and they are once again coordinating for the people in the municipalities, for example. Normally, we have to be able to work that out. We're just getting started, so let's give that trial a chance first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u124	We have just begun, the Minister says, but those costs have of course been incurred over the past few months, and for some of the parties that are now bearing those costs it is a lot of money. They want to see it again soon. I would therefore like the Minister to be more clear: in what time does she expect these damages to take place? Is the Minister prepared, if not in the short term, to allow the government to advance something with a fund? Again, for this kind of smaller, local parties it's just incredibly much money and long waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u125	I cannot say exactly what the deadline will be. Again, it is only a week and a half since the first substantiated claim was filed, which has also been continued to MSC. I can try again to see if there's any more clarity. I can come back to that in the second term, but at the moment I cannot say exactly how much time is expected of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u126	I'd love to. I'd like an indication: are we talking about two months, are we talking about six months? I would also like to know whether the Minister is prepared, if it is going to take longer than six months, to simply propose a fund. Surely it can't be that all those organizations that have all stood up for our public interest from their own pocket have to wait for their money incredibly long?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u127	We do everything we can to prevent people from having to wait for their money for a very long time. I am prepared to ask again whether, in the second term, I can give some indication of the deadlines that we then have to think about. I cannot guarantee that I will be able to give the answer to that question, but I am prepared to do so. Our commitment is, of course, to get it all reimbursed as soon as possible. This also applies to our own costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u128	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u129	Mrs De Vries has asked whether it is true that there is still a ceiling on compensation and whether this will change in the future. It is indeed correct that, under the London Convention, the owner could limit liability and submit a request to the court, but that step has not been taken so far. MSC has always indicated that it will make good the damage. So I'm not expecting a restriction request. What will the Minister do if the shipowner goes bankrupt? Under the Maritime Accidents Act, the owner is obliged to provide insurance or other financial security such as a bank guarantee to maintain the coverage of his liability. In the event of bankruptcy, the insurer or bank guarantee will still be used to obtain redress. Then there is the study of the ecological consequences. Under the direction of the Wadden Academy, research is done on the ecological effects of the overboard containers. Several research institutes are involved. The first findings of the study will be expected in the coming winter, at the end of 2019, at the beginning of 2020. Questions have been asked by Mr Schonis, among others, about banning small plastics and Styrofoam. You know that styrofoam balls are used all over the world, not only in sea transport, but all kinds of products are transported in Styrofoam everywhere. It really is a global issue and therefore requires an international, comprehensive approach. Furthermore, it is really the policy area of Secretary of State Van Veldhoven. On the basis of the research we are doing now, we will certainly take our experiences with us and make them known to her. Then we will also have to consider how best to address this issue on behalf of the Netherlands in an international context. Maybe we can do something about it in Europe. I'd like to talk to the Secretary of State about the possibilities. Then there's crisis management. A lot has been asked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u130	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u131	I understand perfectly well that Styrofoam is everywhere. It is very difficult to deal with it. We not only use it in the Netherlands for countless products, but it is used worldwide. I'm trying to find out exactly what the Minister's commitment is. Is she going to discuss this with her colleague at IenW, because it's her wallet? Or does the Minister say that I really see opportunities to put this on the agenda internationally? Countries in Africa die in plastic. There are already countries that say: we want to get rid of that plastic. These countries are taking more far-reaching measures than we are here in the Netherlands. I believe that within Europe, but also internationally, there are best allies with which we can tackle this problem together. Does the Minister see that as well and would she like to discuss this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u132	I would very much like to discuss it with the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is in full swing in the fight against plastic. I myself walk with a bag from Rotterdam with "Fuck off with your plastic." That bag is made of recyclable plastic. I think that we are very good at this together, but it is the policy of the Secretary of State. It has more expertise and knows better where this can or cannot be addressed in Europe. I will gladly bring this particular experience and the misery we have with it in the Wadden Sea region to her attention again, if she does not already have it on her retina. I'll tell you what we're gonna do with this. It's not just in sea containers, it's just everywhere. Again, I will explicitly highlight this particular aspect of the global plastic problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u133	With what I call the natural disaster in the Wadden region, the Netherlands has a very good reason to put this on the agenda internationally. I ask the Minister to take this into account in her considerations. When can the Chamber be informed about any discussions with the Secretary of State? Can we get a letter about that sometime? How are we kept informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u134	We have a general consultation on maritime matters before the summer. There'll always be a collection letter to the Chamber. Shall I mention it in there? I think that's an easy place to find it. It's a logical hook in that letter. Then there's crisis management. In managing the crisis, work has been carried out on the basis of up-to-date incident response plans and, of course, the agreements based on the Security Regions Act. The Fryslân security region was responsible for land crisis management and Rijkswaterstaat was a member of the regional policy team, chaired by the chairman of the Fryslân security region. As manager of the North Sea, Rijkswaterstaat was responsible for crisis management at sea. There are some parties here today calling for a so-called green GRIP. This would specifically apply to a crisis with a predominantly ecological impact, in order to involve nature aspects more strongly in crisis decision-making and scaling-up. That's just how I took it. You have all chosen your own words, but that was pretty much the greatest common denominator I got out of that. The letters GRIP, of course, represent Coordinated Regional Incident Procedure, which provides for a generic scaling-up structure. Within that structure, an incident, a disaster or a disaster shall be coordinated by emergency services and managed by a mayor or a chairman of a security region. The Security Regions Act already offers opportunities to focus on more functional aspects such as nature, environment and ecology. Therefore, the relevant crisis partners may also be invited to the table to express their interest in crisis decision-making. That's what happens in practice. In this case of the MSC Zoe, State Forestry was represented on the regional operational team and there was also frequent contact with the other ground-based nature organisations. The independent Institute for Physical Security, the IFV, is currently evaluating crisis management in this incident by the security region. They also assess the role of our Ministry of IenW; otherwise I will immediately get a motion on it if we do not take it with us. So our own role is also being evaluated immediately. The IFV has also been asked to pay particular attention to the involvement and role of volunteers. The results of these two evaluations are expected this summer. It's one of the studies that can go a little faster. The Safety Research Council has also launched an investigation into the incident. They will undoubtedly include the role of the security region, the scaling-up and so on. They always do that in their investigations. We expect that report only in the spring of 2020. I think it is important, also to have careful decision-making, to await those investigations. This also explicitly addresses the issue of volunteers. Mr Von Martels asked whether the Minister shared the lack of direction in the clean-up operations. I also refer to the independent investigation. It is always better to have an independent judgement on this than to give it as one of the partners themselves. Rijkswaterstaat has, of course, been in the lead at sea and not on land. It is therefore not the most sensible thing to make a judgment of its own. Mrs De Vries asked whether the Minister could still respond to the criticism that Rijkswaterstaat was initially invisible. From my position, if you have the dg Rijkswaterstaat on the phone several times a day and other people from the area as well, that's a bit difficult to imagine. But I understand it may seem that way on the rest of the country. In the beginning, of course, Rijkswaterstaat focused very much on the safety of shipping, the identification of containers, dangerous substances, the mountains and the start of everything to clean up and coordinate the mess. At the beginning, I think, these activities have been less visible than the work of the many volunteers and of the municipalities. At the same time, however, it is crucial that this work is also well done. A number of people have also asked questions about the routes and traffic measures in shipping. A number of speakers have already pointed out that shipping is an international sector. Traffic measures in the Netherlands affect all ships sailing here. Shipping routes, and which ships are allowed to sail, are laid down internationally in the IMO. A possible modification of the route for container ships can therefore only be agreed internationally. But I am now telling you that if the investigations into the cause of the MSC Zoe accident showed that an adjustment of the route for container ships is an effective measure, I will of course commit myself to it with everything I have in mind. But for that, of course, I need a well-founded story. I am therefore first dependent on the results of the investigations we are doing. I would therefore like to await that investigation first. Another point is chipping and tracing the lost containers. I have already said this to you: that makes a lot of sense to me. Therefore, in anticipation of this debate, I have already asked TNO to examine the possibilities and potentials of this. So I expect the report on this this summer too. Then we can see what we can do with that. We also hear stories where they say: when such a thing goes down to the sea floor, that GPS tracker no longer works. On the other hand: if the trackers that are still on the ship still do it, at least you know which ones are still there, and then you know which ones aren't there anymore. There are all kinds of sides to it and I think they can also come from that TNO research. I would point out that this chipping and tracing will not be easy either, because there are about 25 million containers in circulation around the world. And the MSC Zoe hasn't even been in a Dutch port; it was just a passing ship. That doesn't change the fact that I'd like to be hard on it when the research shows that TNO says you can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u135	A lot of answers given by the Minister refer to international agreements that need to be made, but when it comes to tracking and tracing containers, TNO seems to be able to do something. That is very good to hear, but I would have preferred it to be dealt with internationally. What can the Minister's commitment in the IMO context be to draw attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u136	I asked TNO: how could it help and what could you do with it? Of course you have all kinds of track-and-trace mechanisms. There are already companies chipping their containers when there's very valuable stuff in them. Or, for example, they want to guard a refrigerated cargo that doesn't change the temperature during the journey. That kind of depends on the kind of cargo. The possibilities and opportunities are now being investigated by TNO. But I'll also tell the Chamber that if we want anything with that, it'll be another uphill battle. After all, there are 25 million containers worldwide. I will be happy to throw everything into battle in the IMO context, but it is not the case that we will receive standard applause from the rest of the world if we go there and say: gosh, shall we chip those containers? But I would like to say again: I would like to make a commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u137	I think that applause will come, because we know that every year in, year from around the world, 1,700 containers are overboard. I am therefore convinced that, at international level, there is a real awareness that something needs to be done. That is why I ask what commitment the Minister is going to make to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u138	Again, I hope for a firm foundation from TNO of what can and can't be done, so that with a good story, I can get a good pitch to IMO. And then I hope that what you expect from it will come out of it, namely that the rest of the world embraces it immediately. Of course, that would be the best part. Mr Von Martels and Mrs Van Brenn asked: what is your view on stepping up traffic management? At present, these traffic guidance services are only provided in the start-up areas to the ports and in the ports themselves. Traffic management, as with routing measures, is subject to the principle that you can only take measures in an international context. So this also applies: if the research on MSC Zoe shows that this would have played a role, then I would like to try to find international support for measures. Another aspect that has also been mentioned is the problem of securing those containers on the ships. The MSC Zoe did not visit a Dutch port during the trip in question and was not under Dutch supervision either. Seaships that do call at Dutch ports can be monitored on a random basis for safety aspects. This concerns the technical state of the ship, the quality and quantity of the crew, working and living conditions, and compliance with environmental legislation. However, during those port state inspections (Port of State Controls) and flag State inspections, several subjects are checked. The loading of the ship is one of those subject to be controlled. Containers on sea-going vessels shall be secured in ports after loading. I've just been with the rowers again. Then you'll see a little bit more how that goes. At the port of arrival they are released again to be able to unload: the so-called sjorring or welding of containers. In the Netherlands, the ILT oversees the above mentioned regulations. In recent years, around 25 containers per year fell overboard in Dutch waters. Fortunately, that number is much smaller than this big one of the MSC Zoe. Following this incident, where the huge number of containers went overboard, the question of compliance with the rules in the field of choruses is topical. We have therefore already launched a theme action on container shipping by the ILT. This theme action is currently in collaboration with the Port of Rotterdam. Moreover, the regular checks in recent years have not shown that loads would not have been properly secured structurally. At European level, too, container retention is taking place, as on 4 July this year, the European Commission is organising a meeting with all stakeholders to discuss bottlenecks, challenges and solutions related to container churning. That also has to do with this disaster in the Wadden Sea. So, fortunately, even at the European level, we are already looking further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u139	The Minister asks whether the rules are being enforced properly enough. We also had that concern, even after the hearing at which the ILT indicated that we had limited capacity to maintain. But the question underneath is whether the rules for jogging containers are good enough. Then you come to enforcement. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether the rules we currently have are sufficient to prevent such disasters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u140	Those rules have been tightened up on the Dutch initiative in the past. Here too, we will have to see if this has played a role in the disaster. If so, then we immediately have the basis to get back to work on that, but first we have to wait and see if it had anything to do with the jingles. Nevertheless, we and the ILT have seen reason to now launch a theme action, which they are now working on, to draw extra attention to those jorings and to carry out additional checks. I myself am very curious to see what will come out of that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u141	I'm very curious about that, too. I am also curious when we, as a Chamber, will hear what this ILT action is about, but also where the gaps in the rules are. Because there is little said about heavy containers at the bottom, not too high stacking and how well you have to fasten them. So is the Minister willing to look into that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u142	Of course, I'm willing to look into that. I think it is important that we first know whether it has played a role in this disaster and, if so, which one. In the meantime, the subject is also very much under my attention. We're gonna see what the ILT findings are now. How will the Chamber be informed about this? The action is now in progress. I imagine we'll mention everything we can tell you about that in the letter you always get for the AO on maritime affairs. I'm sure it won't be complete yet, but I'm sure we can include in that letter the information we can already give about the action at that time. For example, at the European meeting on 4 July, which I just mentioned, where experts from all over Europe are present, you might just be able to make a little more power. Let's see what the point of interest comes out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u143	It has already been noted that only 46% had been lashed in 2010. I'm glad to hear that things seem to have improved in recent years. It is also good that a theme action has been organised. I wonder when it'll be ready. In addition to the fact that we as the House of Representatives would like to be informed about what comes out of it, we would also like to know what follow-up actions might be in terms of inspection and enforcement. The VVD asked questions about this earlier, in 2014, and nothing more has happened since then. As far as we're concerned, it shouldn't go away again. So if the Minister can pay attention to that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u144	I'd be happy to look into that with the utmost care. We will see what information we can already share in the letter for the AO on maritime affairs. You will of course be informed about everything that needs to be completed at a later date, and you will also be involved. The same applies to Mrs Kröger's question as to whether containers carrying dangerous cargo should be given a separate place. That sounds like part of the whole jord plan: where are you putting it? Of course dangerous substances have a special place in them. The last question is from Mrs De Vries. Are shipping companies obliged to report overboard containers? Yeah, that commitment's already there. Do they all do it? No, because more containers are found worldwide than have been reported. The loss of a container is a maritime accident. Any master or operator of a ship shall be required to report a maritime accident, including the loss of a container, to the Coast Guard as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u145	Because this was the last question, the following. I had asked the Minister whether I should wait for each individual point proposed by the network of coastal municipalities to address in the longer term, among other things, that chip and that chip, and so we all have to wait until the investigation of TNO is completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u146	Let me also say that in the letter we are sending to you for the general discussion on maritime affairs, we will respond to those parts of the letter from the coastal communities to which we can respond and, where we are still waiting for further investigation, we will indicate in the letter how we intend to deal with these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u147	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u148	Thank you. The Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food now has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are a number of remaining questions, spread over three domains. Firstly, on fisheries, and secondly, on ecological research, Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen has already mentioned this, but I still have a few specific questions, and finally on the management authority of Waddenzee. A lot of questions have been asked about the fishermen. Let me begin by saying that I appreciate very much the way in which the fishermen have worked, directly in the first days after the disaster, but also the way in which they are still working. Because they still fish, sometimes against will and thanks, things that have to do with the container disaster. I stopped by myself a few weeks ago. I have spoken with a number of fishermen and I have seen what they are doing and how it works in practice. To make it very visual: there was a fisherman who picked up all those little plastic cars. That looks really funny until those things are broken. Then that plastic is very sharp and it just goes right through your nets. That's the reality these people are dealing with. A number of questions have been asked about how it works with the damage and so on. Over the last few weeks, the salvage company has deployed one fishing vessel, the LO-28, which has assisted the salvage ships in the fishing away of released floating waste during the salvage operations. Fishermen who want to do so also have the possibility to deploy their ship to clean up the remains that are still at the bottom of the sea after the overboarding of containers. Work is being done to set up a so-called pilot hotspot net catching. The fisheries organisations are still awaiting the orders of the salvage company BMT to carry out this pilot. Rijkswaterstaat urges BMT to establish the contract. When the contract is published, fishermen can sign up for it. To ensure the safety of the fishing vessel and the crew, exemption from the ILT is required. I shall now turn to a number of specific questions on this subject. In addition, a written order from the mountaineer is required and a statement from the insurance company. Our Ministry will then grant the exemptions required under the Fisheries Act. This concerns, for example, the use of adapted gear and the possibility of working on weekends. A total of 30 claims have now been made by fishermen. These are 11 claims through the claims forms and about 20 to 25 claims submitted by the fishermen themselves to the salvage company. These claims relate in particular to damage to fishing nets and fishing gears. There is no idea of the number of claims pending. The fisheries organisations continue to urge fishermen to report the damage. The Vissersbond is also very constructive in this regard. They act as a kind of coordination point around the claims. They also do a lot of communication to ensure that fishermen know that they have to report that damage. In recent times, we have always insisted that the claims for damages should be dealt with quickly, because, as a number of Members rightly point out, a lot of work has been done by fishermen and a lot of damage has been done, but it is taking quite a long time. Today, the salvage company has informed our ministry that they have instructions to approach the fisherman who filed a claim. It is indicated that an agreement will be made with each fisherman in the short term to try to arrive at a reasonable and rapid settlement of the damage. So there seems to be some real progress now. At least that's good news. I shall now turn to Mr Laçin's question. He asked what we are going to do to promote the handling of fishermen's damage. We've been pushing for that to happen all along. We have had this commitment today, but you can also assume that we will keep them behind the rags until it is actually settled, because that is what it is all about in the end. Mrs Kröger asks: couldn't fishermen have been deployed for payment before and after? A lot of fishermen have been deployed, especially in the first days. From the Wadden Fund, a fee was also received for the costs incurred during that first period. The more fundamental or structural costs, as Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen has also pointed out, are, of course, primarily the cause of the person who caused them. We've just made the agreement that it's actually going to be picked up. As I have just pointed out, fishermen can also be given the opportunity to commit themselves. We try by setting up the so-called pilot hotspot just catching to also create opportunities for that. Mrs De Vries and Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the damage: can it be compensated? Indeed, as we have now been doing along these lines. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked whether it is clear where these fishermen can report, because she is getting signals that the handling of these claims is not going well. She's asking what happens to that. Those fishermen can report to the Fishermen's Union. It also coordinates the collection of those claims, for example it also has information on how you can properly fill in the wording and what information you need to give for it. We continue to press for this to be dealt with quickly. There is also the issue of the ILT waiver. When I was in Lauwersoog, the remark was indeed made that it takes a long time and is complicated. It is necessary; let me stress this first, because it is also, of course, a question of safety and, for example, that there are no risks, including the safety of fishermen and crews. That's gotta come first. That's why the ILT waiver is so important. In order to be able to obtain these certificates of exemption, such as those referred to above, fishermen must also describe the risks involved in cleaning up the dirt and what measures are being taken to reduce those risks. There must also be a written order from the salvagers and a written statement from the insurance company. I understand that the fishermen have now drawn up the risk analysis. So we try to get that process going there too. It is not the case that the ILT opposes this, but these steps need to be followed. But there, too, there is progress now. Then there are the questions about the subsidy for Fishing for Litter. Several Members, for example Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr von Martels and Mrs Van Brenk, have asked questions about this: what exactly is the situation with the subsidy? As part of the Fishing for Litter project, fishermen are indeed taking the litter that ends up in their nets to the country. There it is taken, removed, monitored and processed. The collection, disposal, monitoring and treatment of that waste are funded by Fishing for Litter. There's about $90,000 in there. As a result of the incident with the MSC Zoe, fishermen who participate in the Fishing for Litter project are also likely to receive more waste in their nets than usual. We do not yet know exactly how much that is, but I think it is logical that the cost of the Fishing for Litter project will increase as a result. This is exactly one of the claims that are included in the discussion we have with the insurer of the MSC Zoe. So this is part of the claim. Those who cause the costs must also pay them, and that is the case here. So this is also included. We're just waiting to see how that's gonna end now. We hope to be able to clarify what is going to happen there very soon. We want this to be included. If that's not the case, then we have another new situation, but I'd like to do it first in this order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u150	I understand, perhaps unjustly, that the suggestion was that there is no continuity in Fishing for Litter. Can I understand the Minister so that at least this will be continued for the time being and that the fishermen can count on it to stop at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u151	The subsidy pot has a certain size and is now emptying out a little faster than we thought it would empty out. Our commitment is to refill it, certainly with a substantial amount, by including it in the claim, but the project as such should be able to continue, yes. Then I come to the question about ecological research and the damage to nature. On the whole, it is still unclear which mortgage the overboard containers impose on the ecology of the Wadden Sea in the long term. At your request, we have asked experts from Wageningen Marine Research to provide an assessment of the possible environmental consequences of this disaster based on the information available now. You received that report 29 March last. WMR indicates that the precise consequences of the disaster on the dynamic-ecological system of the Wadden Sea are difficult to identify. They conclude that effects may occur. Based on the best available environmental knowledge provided to me by experts from WMR, there is sufficient reason to set up a sound medium- and long-term research and monitoring plan in response to the container incident. Research will therefore also be launched into the possible long-term ecological consequences for which Rijkswaterstaat and the Wadden academy have taken the initiative. Other research parties are also involved. Mr Laçin asks what we are going to do to ensure that the dunes and salt marshes are cleaned from the microplastics. Wageningen Marine Research also looked specifically at the impact of the container incident on the functioning of the salt marshes. This is estimated as being small according to the research report. But we really need to get a closer look at that. That's exactly why we set up that research program. We do not know much at the moment. Mrs Van Brenk asks whether the investigation has already been completed and whether the report will also go to the Empire or to the Wadden Region Regielege. As I have just indicated, on behalf of Rijkswaterstaat, the Wadden Academy started with the deployment of several researchers with a study on the long-term effects. A zero measurement was carried out in January. On the basis of the monitoring, a first report will be published at the end of the year. Of course, that report will also go to your Chamber, so that you can also take note of it. Mrs Van Brenk also asks whether I can comment on the consequences and damage to invertebrates and fish. Then I have to do it on the basis of research that's been done on these animals before. Research has previously been carried out on bedbugs such as wadpies, mussels and shrimps. It is known that these animals have microplastics in them. According to a recent EU-wide study, there is no demonstrably widespread risk to humans or the environment of micro or nanoplastics, except in locally accumulated high densities. But there is still a lot of lack of knowledge here too. The risks are all rather unpredictable, especially towards the future. Based on previous studies, it appears that there is a low direct intake of plastics by fish. Here too, however, there is no knowledge of the possible uptake of the smallest microplastics and nanoplastics through the food chain. So we have to do it with the information we have, but we also recognise that we do not know a lot in this area yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u152	In my opinion, the quickscan was also about the toxic substances that came out of the containers. So it wasn't just the nanoplastics. Is that true or does the Minister say it's just about the plastics?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u153	I'm just looking for the quick scan. I asked WMR to give a kind of initial impression of the total impact of this disaster on the ecosystem, on the ecology of the Wadden Sea. It was not limited to the contents of the containers, the toxic substances or anything like that. That really went a lot wider. Mr. Chairman. Then I just have the questions about the managing authority Wadden. A number of your Members are asking what exactly is going on here. What role can he play in this? We hope that such a disaster will not happen again, but what kind of function will such a managing authority have? Together, we have conducted an independent reconnaissance to a managing authority, Wadden. We are now finalising the proposal on exactly what it is going to be like. We have already indicated to the Chamber that there will be a distinction between policy and management. We are now really trying to shape this implementation. That proposal is expected to come to your Chamber before the summer. There's an AO Wadden scheduled for June, I think. I'm just gonna say it out of my head. Before then, we would like to convey to you exactly how we see it in front of us. Then you can take note of that. They also asked what role the Wadden Authority will play in this type of disaster. D66 and the PVV asked for this. In general, there are clear agreements and procedures for crises such as these. For example, the managing authority can perform a function by being a contact point. This does not mean that the managing authority will then take up formal powers. I would like to make that very clear, because these powers are certain. I myself heard that several Members also heard that in the first days after the disaster there was some uncertainty as to who everyone should turn to and who was actually the point of contact. We are still discussing the implementation of such a management authority, but you can imagine that such a management authority could be a point of contact in such situations. Let that be part of the debate that we are going to have when we have forwarded the content of the managing authority to your Chamber. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u154	Not quite, because Mr von Martels has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u155	In itself, the questions have all been answered. I've just been thinking about the subject of Fishing for Litter. I said in my first contribution that this €90,000 will be guaranteed by 2021. After that, there will be a cut. The amount goes to €60,000. While we are aware of what is happening now and know that funds should simply be available, it is quite illogical that a cut is going to take place. Hence my question: what exactly is the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u156	I'm gonna take a look at that, because I don't have that kind of answer. We are now in the process of having the fund filled specifically included in the claim for MSC Zoe. If that's okay with you, I'll come back in the second term to the cutting point of Fishing for Litter from €90,000 to €60,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u157	Mrs Kröger also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u158	Yeah, about the fishermen, too. What can we do if something like this happens again? Of course you hope not, but suggest that fishermen use them much faster and more large scale in helping with those salvage activities? I hear the Minister sketching that a pilot is now being launched. Anyway, of course, we're five months away. How can we decorate it in such a way that next time you can get fishermen to help you completely?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u159	I think this has actually happened in the first few days. At that time, a lot of fishermen took action very quickly, for which all the praise is due. We've been using the Wadden Fund to figure out what we can do to meet them. For example, we have granted exemptions so that they can work on weekends as well. I think that in those first days, things like that got picked up pretty quickly. At some point you hope that a very large part of that crap is out of the sea, but for what remains and what role you have then, there are these kinds of trajectories like Fishing for Litter or the pilot we are setting up right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u160	You all have a second term. A final question and then Mr Laçin, but then we really go to the second term, because it is running out of time. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u161	Maybe the distinction, as I understand it, is that in the first days they helped more superficial, large pieces of dirt fish, while this is really about salvage and fishing things off the sea floor. Isn't there a difference there, too? Why could it be in the first days and now it has to be in a pilot and it takes so long? Actually, I don't understand the difference between those activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u162	This is more a question of financing and licensing and that sort of thing. That's much more structural. In the first few days we have been able to fill that with the Wadden Fund, but that is not intended to continuously finance this type of activity. For this you need more trajectories like Fishing for Litter, with which you can become more structural. For the much larger pieces I have just indicated that there are also risks that you do not want to run. We also need that exemption from the ILT to be able to store the heavier stuff, but that's too heavy a word; to fish up the larger pieces and the like. There are also security issues, and you want to have good agreements on that. That's the kind of thing we're all working on right now, so that we can shape it properly, when it happens again, which I don't hope will happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u163	A short question, coming back to those salt marshes. The Minister states that WMR has looked at it and that the impact seems small, but that we actually know little, so we need more insight. That is why a research programme has been set up. I would like to know when we will hear more about this and what is going to be the main thrust of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u164	I sent the first reaction of WMR on 29 March, so you can see that. In that letter, I also indicated that we are going to launch that investigation. We did that zero measurement in January and at the end of the year you will receive a report on the state of play then and then. That's gonna keep going. I've informed your room about that program. That was also in the letter of 29 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u165	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We will proceed immediately with the second term from the side of the Chamber. The first is Mr Wassenberg, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question and a motion. It is about making the detailed consignment note available. I understand that the Wadden Academy will take stock of what follow-up investigations will take place after the disaster and which researchers can play a role in it, but also that these researchers will have to sign a non-disclosure agreement. That seems logical, but that could make publishing about the consequences of that disaster difficult. So I hope the Minister can take away my concerns. At least I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the MSC Zoe caused an ecological disaster on the night of 2 January in, among others, the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Wadden Sea;]] [[considers that this nature reserve deserves the highest level of protection;]] [[noting that actions to reduce damage are made more difficult by the fact that the exact content of the containers that have been overboard is still unknown;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to make available, as soon as possible, a detailed consignment note containing the contents of MSC Zoe's overboard containers to all parties involved in any way in the settlement of the damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u167	Let me make a brief motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that oil tankers have been banned from the southern TE route since 1997 due to environmental hazards;]] [[noting that closing the southern route for large cargo ships reduces the risk of accidents and pollution and thus improves the protection of the Wadden Sea;]] [[calls on the Government to develop criteria for cargo ships on the basis of which access to the southern route can be granted or denied,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Schonis, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Kröger and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u168	Thank you. Mr Laçin has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two points. Mr Wassenberg referred just now to the contents of the containers. We also consider it important that the contents of the containers be known as soon as possible in the event of such a disaster, so that disposal operations can take place safely and the impact on the environment and nature can be quickly established. That is why Mrs Kröger and I intended to table a motion, but now Mr Wassenberg has tabled a similar motion. So we're going to look at him very nicely if we can stand under his motion so we don't file another motion. The second point concerns the costs incurred, because I am not quite sure yet. The Minister of IenW states that she cannot set a deadline for payments to be made, but small entrepreneurs cannot wait for their money for months in our opinion, because that could put their business at risk. In conjunction with the public interest of the work they have done in this regard, I shall come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that salvagers and fishermen have to file their claims for damages with the insurer of MSC Zoe;]] [[noting that some mountaineers and fishermen do not yet know whether they will be declared the costs incurred;]] [[Whereas the clearance work following the MSC Zoe container disaster is of public interest;]] [[Whereas, due to this uncertainty, salvagers and fishermen may be reluctant to carry out clean-up work in the event of a subsequent disaster;]] [[Whereas this could have a major impact on nature, the environment and the economy;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a compensation fund for similar disasters that can be relied on by mountaineers and fishermen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u170	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u171	Thank you. Mrs Kröger has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u172	Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions, so I'm gonna start fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are insufficient requirements for containers containing substances that are not explosive or active toxic but should not nevertheless enter the environment;]] [[noting that the risk of environmental pollution in the event of damage or loss is unnecessarily high;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals at European and global level for additional requirements on the strength, safety and traceability of containers containing substances dangerous to the environment or harmful to them and on the way in which they are transported,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at regular intervals, container ships lose part of their cargo and this may cause harmful substances to enter the sea;]] [[Whereas better standards, rules and enforcement can prevent or limit this;]] [[calls on the Government to review the current rules on the technical requirements for containers, container transport, loading and sjorring, record and enforcement of container contents and to present proposals for their improvement to the responsible authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-173]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u173	And finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas virtually all our plastic goods and plastic packaging materials start out as small plastic granules and are often transported around the world per container for processing;]] [[Whereas these granules are virtually impossible to clean up if they enter the environment, break up into smaller and smaller microplastics and pose a serious threat to humans, animals and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to call for additional requirements to be imposed on the packaging and transport of these plastic granules in an international context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u175	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. One minister has made it clear what the scale of this disaster is, namely an area as large as twice the province of Utrecht. And the other minister says: we don't know what the effects can be in the long term. So I think we can really talk about an ecological disaster here. That's why the next two motions. First, the motion on chipping containers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that of the 342 overboard containers of 50 containers, it is still unclear what is in these containers;]] [[noting that shipping often uses paper registration to identify containers;]] [[Considers that modern technology, such as a chip and digital freight letters, is a cheap way to quickly and easily identify containers and their contents, both in normal logistics operations and in a calamity;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the ports in the North Sea regions on mandatory chipping of sea containers and to digitize consignment notes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-176]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u177	I have a question. The Minister has just indicated that she is having research conducted into tracing, improving tracing and getting more information out of it. I am surprised, however, that a motion is now being tabled on this, because I think something has been put in motion. The Minister says: "I will come back to that. I will also look favourably at what comes out of it, to take action on it if necessary." Why isn't that enough for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u178	That is what I am saying: the scale of the disaster and the long-term effects mean that you have to implement the measures that you can quickly implement, the quick wins, I will say, as quickly as possible. We have a certain duty of care here. It's about the North Sea. It is a very important economic and ecological area. I don't see why we should wait until the investigation is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u179	But what do you think will happen before the summer in this area, which you know is simply an international sector? The minister says she's coming up with that report in the summer. I'm not getting that together so well. I guess that's the fastest way to get things done, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u180	We differ on this point, Mrs De Vries. Look, it's something the sector itself has come up with. It is also something Mr Moorlag referred to from the letter of the Belgian and Dutch coastal communities. This is just a quick, easy to implement measure. This also helps, apart from calamities, with normal logistics operations already in business operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u181	Just in front of my picture. I understand the question. I'm just looking for the next thing. Those containers come from all over the world. Should this minister take care of this in the Netherlands? Or should the Minister at IMO argue in favour of achieving this? I do not have that quite clear yet, but I do not think that only a chip obligation in the Netherlands is going to help very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u182	There are quite a few containers coming through the port of Rotterdam, and if we keep chipping them all long enough, then I think you'll come a whole end worldwide. But in principle, it is true that this needs to be dealt with internationally, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u183	Mr Schonis continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u184	Thank you. I have one more motion on phasing out styrofoam and plastics in sea transport. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Styrofoam in volume causes most waste and pollution in the North Sea and Wadden Sea;]] [[noting that the styrofoam of MSC Zoe containers in the North Sea and Wadden Sea will remain present in the coming years with an unknown impact on the environment;]] [[noting that Styrofoam is widely used in sea transport;]] [[noting that the MSC Zoe disaster showed that Styrofoam is difficult to clean up;]] [[calls on the Government to examine with the ports in the North Sea regions whether the use of Styrofoam and plastics for transport over the water is fully phased out and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-177]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u185	Earlier, when I asked Mr Schonis about these plastic spheres, I thought we were talking more broadly about the small pellets used for the production of plastic worldwide, and Mr Schonis said that he wanted it to be restricted. Now it's all about styrofoam, but shouldn't it actually be broader about restricting the transports of these tiny balls?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u186	Beep foam and plastics; so both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u187	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u188	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u189	I was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u190	Thank you. Mr von Martels, on behalf of the CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the clear answers. In that respect, it wasn't pulling, shoving and shoving. That's good to hear. We have often heard the abbreviation MSC today and we now know what it means: more smart containers. That's exactly what we need in the future. I hope that will also be the Minister's commitment in the near future. I am still curious about the answer to the question about fishermen: is it going to be €60,000 or €90,000? I have another motion on how to give volunteers an even better chance of actually achieving things in a good way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it is desirable for volunteers to be helpful in reducing damage to nature in the event of a major incident response;]] [[Whereas the contribution of volunteers can be further increased if they can be helped through sound and structured management, if they are included in disaster response plans and if volunteers are trained;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how best use can be made of the deployment and knowledge of area experts and volunteers during the fight against incidents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels, Mr Schonis and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-178]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Even though I have been promised that an investigation will start, I feel that pressure should be put on it. There is such a problem here that there has also been a demand from the network of coastal municipalities. I'd like to leave it with the Minister. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the loss of 342 sea containers by MSC Zoe has an unprecedented impact on the ecosystem in the Wadden Sea and the North Sea, on humans, animals and the environment;]] [[Whereas every effort must be made to prevent this from happening again;]] [[calls on the government to take on board in full the four suggestions made by the network of coastal municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-179]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their comprehensive answers. It is good to hear that all damage will be compensated and that it now seems that MSC, the shipowner, is in a positive position. I think we should all appreciate that the causer wants to take it down, too. It is also a good thing that we are going to talk to every fisherman and that we are going to have a quick and reasonable handling. If there is a change in that attitude or if the result is disappointing with the fishermen, I would like us as the House of Representatives to be informed about it in good time, because I think that is an important element. Now it seems to be going well with the attitude of the shipowner, but well. A lot's been set in motion. A great deal of research is being carried out and we have to wait for the results. I regret, however, that a great many motions have now been tabled. I think that many investigations have been launched, let us wait for those results, for example a research report from the Research Council for Safety or one of TNO's research into what the solutions and measures should be. Anyway, it's one time now. I have not yet heard from the Minister about Panama's investigations as the flag nation under which the ship sails and Germany as the destination port. So I'm still curious about that. I think we all have to realise that container shipping is international trade and that large ports in the Netherlands also have an economic interest in it. So let's not lose sight of that either. I must honestly say that I am also sorry that I have not always heard the refreshment and sobriety I have heard in some of the contributions in the round table here. I regret that, but I would like to await the investigations so that we can take the right measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u194	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u195	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would like to thank both directors for their detailed answers to the questions put by the Chamber and also by my group. I just want to take one more point out. That is the fisheries sector. The talks that will be held with the fishermen, the compensation they receive, now seems to be moving forward. I'm glad to hear that. The same applies to the intention expressed to re-fill the Fishing for Litter subsidy pot. We will have a further explanation of this in a moment. I'm very happy about that, too. Mr. Chairman. Let us hope that a disaster of this magnitude will never happen again. It is a very beautiful but also very vulnerable nature reserve. We do not know what the ecological consequences are, even in the longer term. That will be investigated. My question is therefore whether compensation for damage is limited in time. If it turns out that in perhaps ten or twenty years' time there is still damage to be done, will it be compensated? I asked that question in the first place. Maybe I just completely missed the answer, but I'm very curious about that. But I apologize if I missed the answer. Mr. Chairman. I'll read back the answer later. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to leave the meeting in order to get home. I will read the answer with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u196	Thank you, too, for your contribution and a good trip. I call Mr Moorlag on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u197	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no adequate provision for the pre-financing of costs incurred by public authorities and private individuals and for damage in the event of incidents and disasters caused by loss of cargo by sea-going vessels;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a fund to finance the costs and damages of co-governments, companies and individuals pending recovery of the cause;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the loss of cargo of ships bears the risk of years of damage;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that these costs are properly covered;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal for a post-care fund and to inform the Court before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-180]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u198	Mr. Chairman. I have a brief explanation of the motions. I find it bizarre that the costs at the front should be covered by the Wadden Fund, for example for fisheries. But I really think that aftercare is very important. There are just landowners. That could be on the salt marshes, that could be the Groninger landscape, that could be the undivided Munnikeveen in the Dollard area. But it cannot be that in ten or fifteen years' time they will be at considerable cost. I think we should just have a provision for that. We have these for soil decline, we have them for landfills of waste and we should also mitigate this risk. The Minister is optimistic that it can all be told. Well, then she doesn't have to worry about the coverage of such a fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u199	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg would like to change the operative part of his first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u200	Yes, Mr. Chairman. From a reliable source, I can say: very reliable source, understood that I can do this best to the interrupt microphone. I do not have a question for Mr Moorlag. I want to change the operative part of my motion. Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin wanted to table a motion which was very similar to my first motion. So I want to merge them, and that changes the operative part of my motion in part No. 170 in: In the case of the MSC Zoe container disaster, the Government requests that detailed loading lists be made available to all parties involved in any way in the settlement of the damage as soon as possible and, if necessary, amend regulations and protocols for this purpose. It's a long time, Mr. Chairman. I realize that I will not win a literary prize with this, but I hope this will be clear. Maybe the minister was able to write along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u201	The Wassenberg motion (No ) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin and reads: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the MSC Zoe caused an ecological disaster on the night of 2 January in, among others, the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Wadden Sea;]] [[considers that this nature reserve deserves the highest level of protection;]] [[noting that actions to reduce damage are made more difficult by the fact that the exact content of the containers that have been knocked over is still unknown;]] [[calls on the Government to make available as soon as possible, in the case of the MSC Zoe container disaster, detailed loading lists to all parties involved in any way in the settlement of the damage, and to amend, if necessary, regulations and protocols for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 170 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u202	We will continue the debate on the pollution of the Wadden Sea as a result of the loss of 342 containers of a freighter. First, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State will give its opinion on the motions tabled. Some motions may be commented on by the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u203	Mr President, I will try to pass the motions one by one. Mr Wassenberg referred to the operative part of the motion on item No. 170 amended. I must say that my judgment has not changed. My verdict is: dissuade. The motion is aimed at everyone involved in the handling. They're fishermen, salvagers and so on. The WOB does not allow us to share the complete information with all those parties. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 171. I would also advise against this, because we already have criteria. Tankers can't take the southern route. Any modification of the criteria will require decision-making at IMO. I would really like to wait and see the investigation for that. I think the motion is premature. You'll hear that on several motions, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u204	The Minister says that she does not want to give the information to all parties, for example to fishermen. I totally get that. I'm gonna go see if I can reformulate the motion. The Minister understands that I'm talking about researchers, about salvagers, not about fishermen and anyone who picks up plastic from the beach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u205	Mr Wassenberg now also mentions the mountainers. And we cannot just give all the information to those who are mountaineers. We really need to apply the WOB neatly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u206	Governments and investigators?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u207	We've already made an exception for that. They're already getting the information. I would also advise against the motion, because that is the current situation. I shall come back to the motion on part No. 171. I told you I'd betray it. The motion in part No. 172 by Mr Laçin. It calls on the government to set up a compensation fund for similar disasters. The causer is responsible and has declared himself willing to compensate for the damage. Therefore, I do not consider a damages fund necessary and I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u208	Nor do I argue that the government should be responsible for this. In the second term, I indicated that small entrepreneurs, such as mountaineers, cannot wait for their money for months and that the government should therefore set up a compensation fund. The government must eventually recover the damage from the shipowner; we agree on that. The shipowner has to pay. But do mountaineers and fishermen have to work with an insurer for months or can the government do something in conjunction with the public interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u209	Mr Laçin now assumes that it will be waiting for months. I don't suppose so. If that's the case, we're having another conversation. The shipowner and the insurers are reasonable. The first claims have just been filed. Let's just sit back and wait for that trial. In the motion in part No. 173 the government is invited to propose additional requirements for the strength, safety and traceability of containers at European and global level. I also say: this is really premature. I have to discourage the motion, because I want to wait for the TNO results. The same applies to the motion in part No. 174 by Mrs Kröger. I should also like to advise against this, because it is also a matter of all kinds of rules concerning containers and their loading and handling. For that, too, I just want to wait and see the investigations. The motion in part No. 175 by Mrs Kröger, the government calls on the international community to impose additional requirements on packaging and transport of plastic granules. That is the Secretary of State's portfolio, so I would suggest that you submit this motion to an AO Environment or something like that. I have promised you that I would discuss this with the Secretary of State and that I will inform you about it in the letter for the general consultation on Maritime Affairs. Perhaps then you can see what you want to do with the Secretary of State afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u210	I'll hold the motion. We will then receive a letter that we can discuss at the Maritime Affairs Office, because that letter will then be on the agenda. I shall therefore speak to this Minister and then put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u211	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (29684, No. 175). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u212	You are always free to vote or hold any motion, Mrs Kröger. Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I should like to make a comment on the first observation. It says that out of 50 out of 342 containers overboard, it's still unclear what's in those containers. That is not the case. The lists are all known to the security region, to relevant parties and also to the researchers, so that's not true. I would also like to advise against the motion, since it calls on the government to make these agreements with the ports in the North Sea regions. That is actually the same as for a few motions before that. I think it's really premature right now. It's something you have to do internationally. I really want to wait for the TNO study and see what exactly they advise on chipping.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u213	On the understanding that I understood that the shipowners themselves asked, or at least knocked on my door with the communication: we would like to see the chipping introduced. Is the Minister prepared to raise this at least in an international context? You don't need TNO's research for that. I understand, of course, that we in the Netherlands can't just introduce chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u214	Chipping is an easy term, but first you need to know exactly what you're talking about. There are all kinds of variants of chips for all kinds of purposes. I really want to get TNO's advice on this first.What is it that makes sense and doesn't make sense? And then look further. In itself, I am sympathetic to it. That is also why I asked TNO to do that research. But I think this is really premature, and that's why I don't recommend it. If you want to get back to me if you have that TNO advice, then I think we have another, more substantiated discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u215	I think I'm going to hold the motion until the TNO report is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u216	At the request of Mr Schonis, I propose his motion (29684, No. 176). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u217	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u218	The motion in part No. 177, including Mr Schonis, calls on the government to phase out the use of Styrofoam and plastics and to inform the Chamber accordingly. With regard to Styrofoam and plastic, I have just referred to the Secretary of State. That is why I would also like to advise against this motion at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u219	I liked Mrs Kröger's solution. I'm gonna keep these on, too. Then we can always see what we do with it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u220	At the request of Mr Schonis, I propose his motion (29684, No. 177). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u221	Then I come to the motion on part No. 178 by Mr von Martels and Mr Schonis and Mrs Dik-Faber, who asked the government to examine how best to use the expertise and expertise of area experts and volunteers during the fight against incidents. I have already indicated to you that we are fully looking into this, so I could take over the motion as a support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u222	Is there any objection to taking over this motion? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u223	Then I come to the motion on part No. 179, which invites the government to take on board the four suggestions made by the network of coastal municipalities in full. I have promised you that I will respond to the advice and suggestions of the network of coastal communities in the letter for the general consultation Maritime. This is also about chimps, routes and so on. Again, I think that is premature and I would like to await the investigation first, so I also recommend this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 180. It is actually a variant of Mr Laçin's motion, so it will not be surprising that I also advise against this motion. The causer must pay and has also promised to do so. The same applies to the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It's about an after-care fund. I am committed to good agreements with the shipowner and the insurer, so I would also like to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u224	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u225	Yes. I have a brief question, Mr President. The Minister has referred several times to TNO research. When are we going to receive that investigation? Can the Minister indicate a date for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u226	Well, not a date, but at least you'll get it this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u227	Thank you. Thanks to both rulers. No, first the Minister of LNV wants to answer one more question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u228	Mr. Chairman. I'll do it quickly, in view of the clock. Mr Von Martels had asked about the €90,000 versus €60,000. From 2019 to 2021, the grant is at €90,000. For 2022 and 2023 it stands at €60,000. But, I say to Mr von Martels, an evaluation will be carried out in 2020. I think it's good that we're just looking at what comes out of that evaluation, and we're also looking at what that means for the project Fishing for Litter. In any case, you should always take a close look at the results of an evaluation. We must therefore look at the amount of money available. For the coming years this amount is therefore just €90,000. And I have also indicated that we are still working on the shipping company to see what its contribution will be to this fund or to this subsidy. There has been quite a lot of money spent there for those reasons. So I hope that we can achieve a little more scope anyway. Finally, Mrs De Vries' question on fishermen. Can they be informed in good time about how this is going? I will. By the way, I will do so in the regular reports on fisheries. That seems to me the most appropriate time to do so. But we're gonna stay on top of it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-22.u230	I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I thank the Chamber for the input. As usual, we will be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. So that's May 21st.
