ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Social Support Act 2015 on the contribution to social support and the assessment for the provision of tailor-made services (35093). I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and anyone who will follow this debate in any way. The MPs have shown great enthusiasm for this important legal process. That means that speaking time has increased quite a bit. It's about legislation, so I don't want to limit it. I would, however, ask you to limit yourself and not take an unnecessary amount of time, not to interrupt unnecessarily. An interruption is a question, not a statement, not a story. We're gonna try to complete the legal process. We are having a debate this afternoon on the European Summit and the Brexit. We don't want that to start too late in the afternoon. It's scheduled for 2:00 p.m. and we want to maintain it. We're gonna see how far we can get with this legal treatment. It's up to the MPs, and that's up to the minister. We're gonna try and finish this, but I can't promise you that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman, good morning. Today we are discussing the subscription rate. This is a change in the law to reduce the own contribution to the care and facilities in the Wmo. The own contribution will no longer be calculated on the basis of income and capital, but will be capped at €19 per month, the subscription rate. According to the Cabinet, reason for this law is to reduce the accumulation of care costs for people. This is important, because unfortunately many Dutch people are unable to pay the cost of care. It is very good that the Rutte III cabinet finally recognises the accumulation of healthcare costs. In this respect, it is quite a missed opportunity in this Chamber that the original majority after the elections to reduce its own risk by at least €100 has now evaporated. My question to the Minister is whether he can indicate how this proposal is related to the other health costs that people face. Not only is the own risk too high, people also pay their own contribution to medicines. On top of that, many costs incurred by caring people are not included in the Minister's plans. Think for example of the own contribution for hearing aids, the medical pedicure, orthopaedic shoes, support soles, the disabled parking card, Valys transport, the cost of a help dog and so on. These are costs that can be considerable for people who have to make these costs of care and have no other choice. We see a trend under the Rutte II and III Cabinets. The municipalities are assigned tasks by the cabinet to carry out, but do not receive sufficient budget. We have often discussed this with this Minister and, unfortunately, every time we get blunt. Meanwhile, in many municipalities, the deficits in youth care and the Wmo are increasing. Even now, the municipalities fear that they will not be compensated for the task imposed by this law on municipalities from The Hague. My question to the Minister is whether he thinks it is right that municipalities and people in need of care should pay the bill for a proposal he is making here today. Does he think it is appropriate that he, as a minister, can show off his own contribution, while the financial risks are largely placed on the municipalities? How will municipalities be prevented from being forced to cut other important provisions if they do not come up with the compensation for the subscription rate? And then we already know the Minister's reaction: municipalities cannot cut back help and support, because they have a legal duty to deliver. Unfortunately, however, this reasoning does not apply, because if this law increases the deficit on the Wmo, it will of course be at the expense of the community work, sports facilities or the Wmo itself, for example because Wmo services which are still free today will be covered by the subscription rate and will therefore become more expensive for people. How does the Minister assess this in the context of reducing the accumulation of healthcare costs? Can the Minister respond to the criticism made by the Council of State on this point? The Council says: "If an increase in demand is not financed sufficiently or quickly enough, the provision of services or the quality of services at the decentralised level will be affected, or provisions will be excluded from the subscription rate." The Council of State even concludes that "it is not in this light unimaginable that the introduction of the subscription rate in the long term affects precisely those (with the lowest incomes) who cannot purchase services via a route other than via the municipality." That is very firm and very harsh criticism from the Council of State. Precisely the same criticism has been voiced by the municipalities and exactly the same criticism is widely shared by the opposition in this Chamber. This minister wants municipalities to deliver more for less money. It can't be, it shouldn't be, and it's just indecent. You can't ask a cook to cook more and better when you take its ingredients at the same time. That is also why I have a motion in preparation for the second term on behalf of the entire opposition to compensate municipalities for the additional costs this law incurs. We do not want municipal care to be distorted because this minister is too miserable to compensate municipalities for the high costs he is throwing over the fence. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to give that compensation. With a budget surplus of EUR 11 billion last year, you would say that there must be some financial space. Mr. Chairman. There is also a good chance that the Minister will soon say that agreements have already been made with the municipalities on finance. The CPB estimates that this plan will cost municipalities 190 million euros, of which the Minister will only reimburse 145 million euros. The rest, he said, was part of the large overall package in the negotiations with the municipalities and therefore could not cause problems. But in the meantime, the municipalities tell us a very different story. They argue that the Minister does not comply with his commitments, namely that the subscription rate would not become an open-ended arrangement. It is, of course, at the moment. While the minister says that there is an agreement with the municipalities on the additional costs under this law, the municipalities explicitly state that the proposal on the subscription rate is not covered by the agreements made. Mr. Chairman. It's just a mess. It is just a mess when it comes to the deficits in youth care, but also when it comes to the deficits that are also threatened by this law in the Wmo. Of course, this also affects the quality and availability of care. Everyone sees that, except this minister. I am curious to see why he has allowed it to come so far that he is threatening to ruin a law that can be very good in the base because he has broken all the support. This law, which is very good if you implement it properly, is now in danger of becoming a tragedy when the people who need care and support are going to pay the bill. This minister plays with the support he should strengthen, among people, among municipalities, but also here in this Chamber. I would like to ask the Minister whether he really wants to run the risk of this law being adopted by a minimum majority in this Chamber, because he is too stubborn to listen. I would also like to know whether he intends to take that risk in view of the new situation on the other side, which he will have to pass through this law. Mr. Chairman. I assume that the Minister values broad support from the Chamber for this law. Then he does the right thing to take seriously the concerns about the deficits that municipalities already have on youth care and the Wmo. Because I do not think the SP is the only party that supports the aim of this law, namely a lower own contribution, but not if we run the risk of being paid by cutting other provisions. The SP needs that security today. Yes, the own contribution should be reduced, but not at the expense of other facilities in municipalities. I'd like to ask the Minister if he can give that assurance today. Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of questions about the possibilities that municipalities will have to be able to send to those who may or may not be eligible for care from the Wmo. The Minister says that, if it became apparent that the influx on the Wmo would be significantly higher than estimated, the municipalities would not be able to provide a provision if someone had already organised that service properly and for a long time. My question to the Minister is exactly what he means by these words. Does he mean to say that older people who have organised their own household care on cost considerations will not be eligible for this care? That would be really weird. Does the Minister agree with the SP? The Minister also states that additional rules can be introduced if costs become too high. He states that municipalities can then lay down detailed rules on their own strength, care and the network. This means that the Minister himself is ahead of a situation which he keeps saying is not going to take place, namely: higher expenditure on municipalities and thus less concern for people, who have to rely on care, their network or their 'own strength', whatever that may be. As if the carers aren't already heavily overloaded. And as if not every research, including the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, shows that the network, which this minister often boasts with, is often overrated. A lot of people don't have the ability to make it by themselves, even though the government wants it so badly. Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about which facilities are to be included in the subscription rate. Does this also apply, for example, to persons temporarily using a facility? What if someone with two broken legs comes out of the hospital and needs housekeeping? Does that fall under the subscription rate, even if it is temporary? And what exactly are the possibilities for municipalities to extract facilities from the subscription rate or not? Can they make their own decisions on the basis of a regulation? Can this mean, for example, that people are going to pay a much higher own contribution because the municipality can circumvent this law with clever tricks? I would like an explanation from the Minister. In an earlier debate, we also asked the Minister about municipalities that simply allow their own contribution to go through, even if people do not receive any care at all. Then you're thinking, "Can you do that?" Yeah, you can. It happened during the summer vacation for example that no household care was provided but the own contribution simply went through. Of course, that's a very strange thing. My question to the Minister is what changes this law to this situation. Will people pay the subscription rate when no one comes on holiday? Should it not be regulated by law that, if no care or provision is provided in a given period, no own contribution is, by definition, charged? I think that makes a lot of sense. I think it would be a good idea to regulate that in this law too. Mr President, finally, and with that, I am staying well within the time. Questions have been asked as to whether or not the subscription rate will apply in all cases. The SP believes that this should be the case. It is also good that there is clarity about this. Because what you don't want to do is to deal with it in different municipalities in different ways: that one municipality brings the daily expenditure under the subscription rate and not another municipality. We shouldn't want that inequality. Can the Minister state exactly what this law is about? If day-to-day spending and respite care are not covered by the subscription rate, is he prepared to settle this in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Mr Hijink deserves to be followed, at least as far as the length of his speaking time is concerned. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a quote on the importance of good social support: "Social support has an important signaling and preventive effect, which can prevent or reduce more expensive forms of care. The introduction of the subscription rate will also enable the clients, who have previously benefited from care due to the high contributions, to make (more) use of WMO facilities. As a result of this measure, a group of clients, previously under the radar, will be more likely to be in the picture with municipalities. In this way municipalities can identify and act on risks of vulnerability." Mr. Chairman. This was a quote from this minister. Let me put this first: these are wise words. They've taken me from the heart. Let me also explain to you why this is so, and start with what kind of people is the most important thing. People want to live in health. If they live with a disability or chronic illness, they want to be able to participate fully in life. That is why it is so very important to provide support, to guide people in their daily lives, to prevent their health from getting unnecessarily worse, to ensure that people are seen and supported in all their individuality, so that they do not have to stand on the sidelines and can really participate. It is therefore a question of avoiding unnecessary deterioration. Prevention, then. That is what people want, and that is what municipalities are already working so hard on. That's a good thing to say. Let 'prevention' now also be a very popular political word. Because that is what we all want: to avoid unnecessary, unpleasant and expensive hospitalizations for people, for example, or to allow people to live in their own neighborhood for longer in a pleasant way. Mr. Chairman. If we really want this, it also means that we really need to be willing to invest on the front, on the front, on the municipalities, which we have given such an important role with the Social Support Act. Offering attention and customization, space for connection and financial space is crucial to make prevention a real success. Care and support should be accessible to those who need it. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is a good thing to improve this accessibility for middle-income people as well. These people are often confronted with high levels of personal contributions to care and support. This sometimes leads to the painful choice of leaving the care that is needed because of the costs. "Care-away" is called in the jargon. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore pleased that this cabinet now recognizes that avoiding care is a real problem. I remember a large number of debates in which we also talked about avoiding worry, and in which ministers were still fully convinced that this was not the case. We also asked for a new investigation into care-avoidance. None of that was necessary. It is interesting that, in the explanatory statement to this proposal, this Minister now also states that there is coherence between the costs of the various health care laws and that this combination of care can also cause problems. Compliments, then. I think it is important that we recognise that there are indeed people who are now avoiding care, that we have to meet those people, and that they are often just above the limit of, for example, the care allowance, and so it is about middle income. Mr. Chairman. The proposed subscription rate must therefore, as has already been said, above all meet medium-term incomes. That's important. At the same time, however, the desired financial space for these people must not be at the expense of low financial thresholds for those on lower incomes. In replying to the questions raised by the Chamber, the Minister seems to be very generous in stating that municipalities are free to offer minimum or zero rates in addition to the subscription rate. That seems very generous. At first glance you think: how nice that the Minister offers that space. But if this generosity is really generous, then you have to ask yourself. Is the provision of these minimum schemes by municipalities financially feasible if they are so drastically reduced in terms of revenue from the WMO? Does the financial compensation from the Empire, with the additional agreements, provide for the possibility of continuing to offer these schemes to people in vulnerable positions? For GroenLinks, it is obvious that people with little money and need for care and support should not suffer from this in itself beautiful initiative of the subscription rate. Mr. Chairman. Local authorities are deeply concerned about the financial impact of the subscription rate. Municipalities expect this fare to have a strong suction effect. On the basis of the first months, in which we already work with the subscription rate via an AMvB, there are signals from municipalities that demand has indeed increased. Large cities, among others, also expect a decline in revenues from the Wmo of up to 50%. The sharp fluctuation in the estimated cost evolution of the CPB also shows that there is a high degree of uncertainty as to how this rate will develop. First, an estimate of 290 million has been made. It was then adjusted to 190 million. That's quite a difference. I'm not surprised, either, because it's hard to predict. In July last year, precisely because of this uncertainty, 97% of the members of the UNG voted in favour of a motion calling for a withdrawal from the subscription rate; 97% of the members of the UNG, that is quite a lot. This is not because the municipalities do not want to offer even better support and do not want to increase accessibility where possible. Of course, that is not the case. What I also find interesting about this vote is that it turns out that political colour does not matter. Whether they are aldermen of VVD-huis, of D66-huis, of GroenLinkshuis or of the SP, they are all concerned whether they can still carry out the powers they have been given with the Wmo. Mr. Chairman. It is about the need for sound, fair and enforceable policies, because nothing is as frustrating as getting a job thrown over the fence that is unknitable. People are pleased with an attractive prospect, but municipalities, the performers, are left in the dark as to whether they can offer people this flat rate without this leading to higher rates for minima or cuts in care and support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp, who has a question for you. I suggest we do the questions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	GroenLinks indicates that there is uncertainty about the subscription rate, that there are concerns and that it is not yet certain, but this cabinet has, of course, indicated that it is going to follow this very well, that there will be a monitor and that there may still be a general measure of governance. Surely these are sufficient safeguards to keep an eye on this and to act if it is to end up in the dark?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	It is indeed important that there is a good and complete monitor. They're working hard on that, too. That is certainly true. The concerns of the municipalities are precisely: do we incur more costs and are we sufficiently compensated by the Empire? We've made arrangements now. An estimate has been made of how high these costs will be, but of course there is a very real chance that these costs will be higher. Very carefully put: we don't know, but that's a good chance. The municipalities indicate this, also on the basis of the first months in which they are now working with this. I will come back to this later, but if this proves to be the case, and if these costs are higher for the municipalities and it is not budget-neutral, then the Empire must take action and the Empire must also financially compensate for this. I therefore agree with Mrs Bergkamp that this monitor is very important and that we should keep our finger on the pulse, especially when it comes to vulnerable people or people with disabilities, but in this case I am particularly concerned about the concerns of municipalities about finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	I understand that, and I share that. I'm also getting signals, but it's kind of weird to get ahead of that, because we have a monitor and we have that AMvB. I think it's also part of normal rule that you come up with measures when there's something different than what you expected. Isn't that just like we deal with a lot of things in this room? I must say that I have passed several laws, but I think that there are a lot of safeguards in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	I find it rather easy to drive from The Hague to say: well, we'll worry about that later. I think it is important to give a guarantee now, should it turn out differently. That is what the Minister wants to do when it comes to policy measures, but when it comes to money, he hides behind policy language and no clear commitment is made. We are not going to say that at least we need more money. We impose something on the municipalities; the Wmo is about powers of the municipalities. The point is that, should it not work out differently than expected, we want to make an exception to those powers, because we think it is so important that the middle income should also be met. That is a dilemma in itself: do we intervene in the powers? But if we do, then I also think that we should stick to the responsibility that lies with the Empire. If there are overruns, it is also up to the Empire and it is a responsibility of this cabinet and of us, broad in politics, to compensate the municipalities sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm gonna get on with this. We all have questions. We don't know exactly how it's gonna work out. If you start something new, transfer some responsibilities and indeed improves access to the Wmo for people, you don't know exactly how it's going to work out. We said we're gonna look into that and we're gonna be able to adjust. It's all in the law. In the end, of course, there is a law and the final balance: what are you going to do with that law? Now Mrs Ellemeet started with a few fine words: this improves access to the Wmo, because this is threshold lowering, this is good, this is beautiful. The final point is whether you're going to support the law or not. Mr Hijink was already suggesting that he was threatening a little bit that this might happen with the smallest possible majority. What is GroenLinks' assessment? Suppose a majority of the Chamber says: those questions remain; we can adjust but we do not yet, but we are going to improve access to the Wmo. What is the final balance of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's a fair question. Look, I support the purpose of the law. I think it is important that we also meet the middle incomes. At the same time, it must be properly implemented. Because we can find everything very beautiful, but in the end, of course, it is about whether or not we allow municipalities to do it right. They will have to do it. We come here to The Hague with a proposal concerning the Wmo, in which we can already ask ourselves whether this will not lead us to the territory of the municipalities. That's a trade-off that's been made, a complicated trade-off. I can take this opportunity to say that there must be a single rate. But then it is also up to us to ensure that the municipalities can implement it properly. In addition, they are not faced with a disguised austerity, that is what I call it, and so, in the end, more people need to help against an inadequate budget. For then we will not be able to do them any good. That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	But you had already made that point very clear, and we all have those questions. Calculations have been made and the Minister thinks that it is right and that it can be done, and that there are a number of safeguards in the law that allow us to adjust and see exactly how it works. Then, after all, it is too ultimate question: do we really want to lower the threshold for people who still have to pay heavily for these facilities? Do we want to meet them, yes or no? With all the questions we have, isn't that ultimately the question? You may ask your questions and criticise the amount that has been transferred to municipalities, but in the end the question is: do you want to meet those people, yes or no? I would refer once again to the suggestion made by Mr Hijink that he would vote against it. So the SP says, well, then we're not gonna help these people...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	Then my question is: What will GroenLinks do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	Of course, it's very interesting to run it this way from the coalition. In my view, Mr Hijink, and I also say: if we really want to do this, if we really want to help those people, then there is a budget; you cannot say fine words without adding money. The same goes for the cabinet. We first agreed on an estimate of that budget. The point is: should there be exceedances, should the law work differently and should municipalities incur additional costs, then we must also be fair. If this cabinet really wants it, then it must also be willing to pay for it. That is only a reasonable and real demand, and it is a prerequisite for the proper implementation of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have a question for Mrs Ellemeet. It is now very much about the financial concerns, but a very important part of the Wmo are of course the kitchen table conversations that municipalities have with people who apply for Wmo support. I didn't actually hear about that. What role does GroenLinks think these conversations can play in preventing the use from taking a huge flight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u18	Fortunately, the municipality can see on a number of points what the desired care is. I think that's very important. That remains important, because the essence of the law is, of course, that you want to offer customization. You want to see what people's concerns are and what it takes. Then the social network will also be looked at. Of course, that doesn't change anything. However, a number of criteria, e.g. the criteria for domestic aid, allow a larger group to claim this support. So I think it is very important that we look at the circumstances of people and not in general offer the same support. That is precisely the strength of this law. That remains, I think, the power of the law. I am trying to see what the question behind Mrs Hermans' question is, whether this is what she asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u19	I asked the question in response to Mrs Ellemeet's concerns about whether much more use will be made of the WMO and about the financial pressure that this could possibly bring to municipalities. Those stories and those concerns I've heard. My point is that it is still the municipality that conducts that individual conversation and conducts that individual investigation. They're all a little policy-driven words for what ultimately is the conversation that needs to be conducted with someone who needs support. I very much believe that in that conversation the consideration is given to whether or not someone gets support. This means that it can also be controlled whether the use gets a huge flight. Since I had not heard you at all, I was curious how you see the role of the kitchen table discussion in this whole legislative amendment and in the follow-up to the implementation of the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yeah, I get that. I think those kitchen tables can certainly play a role. But when you talk about municipalities who are now using the facilities in the WMO, it is often precisely the incomes that are already sufficiently compensated, and for whom there is an attractive rate. I believe that 60% of the use now lies with the lower incomes. In some municipalities such as a large municipality like Amsterdam, this is higher, around 80%. Then there is a huge reservoir of people, so to speak, that in a moment thinks: gosh, that's a lower rate, I'm also a little worse on my feet and for me it might also be interesting to ask for domestic help via the municipality. Then there will be a group of whom we say from left to right in the Chamber that it is very good, that it is precisely that group that is avoiding concern now and which we want to achieve with that law. But there will also be people with whom you can ask yourself whether they can afford that easily themselves. Mrs Hermans' question: I do not think that you are fully filtering out the sucking effect for that group with the kitchen table conversations, and that is not the assessment of the people in practice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that he is prepared to adapt the policy and legislation if this subscription rate leads to unintended and unwanted consequences. But is the Minister also prepared to financially compensate the municipalities if it appears that the costs for them are higher than had been calculated in advance? Can he make that firm promise? For my group, this is a very important factor in the assessment of this law. The aim of this amendment, which we support, can only be achieved if municipalities are actually able to implement it. It is often said: who pays, determines, but with the introduction of the subscription rate in which the State intervenes in the powers of the municipalities, this game rule actually applies exactly the other way around: who decides, pays. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the subscription rate should under no circumstances be used in practice as a disguised cut in the provision of minimum services and support. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum to the law, the Minister himself also states that the influx to the facilities is difficult to estimate in advance. I therefore expect this Minister to make a clear statement in this debate that the influx, which is not yet foreseen and which is not planned, will be fully compensated by the Empire. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In addition, my group believes it is only reasonable that people with a higher income should pay their own contribution to health care and support. The strongest shoulders can carry some loads. We face a huge challenge in terms of keeping care affordable, even in the longer term, for everyone, including those on low incomes and those on middle incomes. It remains important to always look closely at and take into account individual circumstances. That is why my group has tabled an amendment which introduces a ceiling for a gross income subscription rate of €55,000, in line with the income threshold of social insurance. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, municipalities may ask for an income-dependent contribution, and again, taking into account individual circumstances. Finally, Mr President. For many people with disabilities or chronic illness and for their caregivers, daily spending is extremely important. This form of support must therefore be financially accessible to these people. In addition, for some people with disabilities or chronic illness, fixed faces in these forms of support contribute substantially to the quality of care. People with disabilities are concerned about getting an appropriate daily spending. It may not always be covered by the subscription rate for them, while paying a higher contribution may be difficult for them to pay financially. My question to the Minister is: is this potentially unwanted negative financial impact on these people, who are dependent on appropriate support for a lifetime, well included in the monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mrs Hermans has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u24	Yes, and it's about the amendment, so I'm going back to your one-after-last point. Do I understand correctly that you propose that up to the income limit this subscription rate applies and from the income limit the old system, so to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yes, from that income line it should indeed be possible for municipalities to ask for their own contribution, appropriate to the situation of people. It should only be possible to make an exception for people who, for example, have a high income but have to pay a lot of alimony. Of course, there may be circumstances which make it wise to keep to the subscription rate. But indeed, as far as my group is concerned, the bigger shoulders can also bear some burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u26	It is also a question of the amendment to item No. 13. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u27	Then my question to Mrs Ellemeet is as follows. One of the aims of the law is to make it simpler and simpler. With the amendment you are proposing, we will have two systems next to each other with all kinds of exceptions. I am therefore curious to see how you are looking at an increase in administrative burdens, also in relation to the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u28	When drafting this amendment, we have indeed looked carefully at how we can fit as much as possible with the existing system and with the CAK's approach to preventing us from building up a whole new system that will lead to far more administrative burdens. That is certainly a trade-off. It has therefore been carefully considered how this could be introduced with as little administrative burden as possible. In the end, a balance has been made between the following questions. Do we think it is important to look at the affordability of care in the long term, so do we really consider this issue of solidarity? Do we want to guarantee the quality of care provision in the longer term? Do we want to maintain the possibility that everyone, even on low incomes, can claim the care they need? Then we will also have to look at the very group of people who can afford to make their own contribution more financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u29	I would also like to refer to that amendment. GroenLinks says that if people earn more, they can also pay more. We have, of course, in the Netherlands a system of taxes, premiums and a lot of other own contributions that are all income and wealth dependent. Of the Wmo is precisely the goal that anyone regardless of their income and assets has access to it. I read GroenLinks' proposal as an expression of income policy within the municipality. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u30	What I regret is that D66 is now pretending that we have already fully incorporated this income-dependent system into the way we finance care. That is to some extent the case, but far from enough as far as my party is concerned. It's a policy of solidarity. It is realistic to look at the task we have with care. I'm really disappointed with D66, a party that is generally willing to look at that side as well, at the difficult conversation in this Chamber. We also have to talk about costs, because they go up to 173 billion, I say out of my mind, if we do not change anything about them. So we have to look at that. And the point is that we guarantee access for everyone. That is at the heart of this proposal. If we want to ensure that people with lower incomes and middle incomes always have access to this care in the longer term, then we will also have to look at how we share costs fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u31	Finally, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u32	I always think it's a little silly that the party you say you're disappointed in says you're disappointed in your party. I think we're both a little disappointed in each other. Maybe that's a summary. Again, I find it really brave what Mrs Ellemeet is doing and at the time she did with that age limit from 70 years. It was really brave to make that proposal. This is precisely about the Wmo, which is independent of income. I'm so sorry about that. It's not like people with more income don't pay. Nor is it the case that such a subscription rate is simply paid out of the air. Look at our tax system. People pay taxes so we can invest in healthcare. Again, I personally had a bit of a problem with that other proposal for that limit from 70 years old. I think of this proposal: it is a pity that a border is now being built in when it comes to access to the Wmo. The Wmo should simply be accessible to everyone regardless of income and wealth. At least that's how we feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u33	I think it is wonderful how Mrs Bergkamp is trying to put the frame here as if I do not think that accessibility is important. It is precisely this accessibility that is at stake. Everyone must have access and keep to the care that is needed, including the Wmo. The Wmo is precisely a law used by all municipalities, for example by a D66 alderman in Amsterdam, to see how an income-dependent contribution can be demanded from people who can afford it. That's exactly the way that law works. I think it is very good that we are looking at middle incomes because we are concerned, Chamberwide, about the financial consequences for middle incomes. But we must also be honest: until now, the Wmo has been working with income-dependent contributions. I think it is important that the biggest shoulders carry the most heavy loads. In this way we can keep care affordable in the future, for everyone, especially for low incomes and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u34	After all this disappointment among us, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, who speaks on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually thought it was a special experience to prepare this bill. I have rarely seen such a bill. When you see the benefits, you think, "Who could be against that?" But then when you see the disadvantages, you wonder: who can be in favour of that? I would like to explain this. Who could be against this bill? After all, there are really very nice points in it. It is very good that people with a middle income are improving and that people with a small wallet don't go backwards. The introduction of the subscription rate makes care and support under the Social Support Act cheaper for many people. That's good news. A second advantage: it is right that this amendment should reduce the cost of caring for the elderly, the chronically ill and the disabled. That was such a pain that we have always run into. Many people pay their own contribution to the Social Support Act, but also create a large part of their own risk and do not fall into municipal minimum schemes or national schemes, such as the health care allowance. It is very good that the cabinet wants to mean something to them too. I'll give you a third advantage. The measure makes it easier. The measure is much easier for residents to understand than all the current bewilderment with income limits. This also brings about a good saving. It is also nice that municipalities then have the space to maintain their minimum policies. So much for the genuine good news. However, if you read the opinion of the Council of State and some comments, you will see that there are also serious and substantive objections. In the context of decentralisation, we solemnly promised here a number of years ago that it is really up to the municipalities to weigh up, because they know their inhabitants best. We should not want to send that from The Hague. I hear the CDA and the VVD, as well as ourselves and other parties especially in the direction of the left-wing parties, who were wondering whether general rules should be laid down for everyone from The Hague, say: no, leave that to the municipalities; decentralisation!; Let us not turn the buttons of The Hague again. So what do we do with this bill? Turn the Hague buttons and tell them exactly how to do it. If you're going to do that, you have to ask yourself what this means for people who have to pay a lot of money themselves and wonder if they actually want that provision. They say now: if it is a lower amount, perhaps I should, instead of perhaps solving it in my own circle, knock on the door to the municipality, a bit according to the transformation idea of the Social Support Act, because it is quite an attractive cheap rate. "A sucking effect" is called. This is also a serious point. Then there's another big downside. Supposing there is an increase in the use of the Social Support Act and it is going to cost more money than expected, doesn't this ultimately mean that the provisions are getting worse? If we are not allowed to play the button of our own contribution and we do not get money out of it, then should we go ahead and cut back in a different way? We don't really want that either. Those are serious objections. While I was struggling in my study with the aforementioned advantages and disadvantages, a rescue call came from Mrs Ellemeet. She had a similar struggle. She said: Wouldn't it be an idea to ask the government to at least make a promise? If you go one step further than usual, then it is a fact that if there are more costs for the municipalities than expected, then there is no serious consideration of what the normal Hague formula is, but that we are really going to do something? I couldn't stand that much reason. That might be the key to swallowing the disadvantages, precisely because we like those objections so much. We meet such a very important pain point by saying: no, we're just going to do it instead of saying that we're going to look at it seriously if it's disappointing. Local authorities do not need to improve on the subscription rate, but they should not decline on it either. We're gonna take care of that. When I hear the minister, we're actually pretty close together. It has been looked at seriously, this is a real assessment. The Minister estimates that if it has to cost a little bit more, it doesn't have to be such a problem. After all the disappointments at the beginning of the day, we might as well have a very nice ending. We could have a very broad-based law if there were some movement at this point. For me, that is the key question: is the Minister prepared to guarantee the additional costs if there is an increase in expenditure of the Social Support Act as a result of this change of law? I also have a number of other questions that I would like to put to the Minister. Research carried out by the Association of Dutch Municipalities shows that 70% of the municipalities questioned are considering working on their own with the distinction between general facilities and tailor-made services, in order to control the costs. How does the Minister view this? How can this be prevented? The Minister is going to evaluate carefully, but when, as a result of the monitor, will there be a better picture of the effects of this bill? The municipalities state that with this change of law, the Minister is mortarising with important building blocks of the Wmo, such as delivering customised work and organising care first in his own network and family and only when this is not possible, knocking on the door of the municipality. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to these concerns. Does he think that municipalities with that uniform subscription rate still have enough room to deliver customised work? And how is that ultimately designed? We also get signals from municipalities that are worried about the flow to the Long-Term Care Act. People who are actually dependent on the Long-Term Care Act are more or less misguided in the Social Support Act because the subscription rate is attractive. On this point, too, I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. These were a number of additional questions, but the key question is about financial compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr Segers has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u37	Sure. The Minister has to answer further, because the questions have been asked to him, but I still have a question for the SGP Group. That question is a little similar to the one I asked Mr Ellemeet. In the ultimate case, you have to choose: are you for or against the law now? Is the SGP now saying that if their conditions are not met, that law cannot continue? As a result, people sometimes have to pay between €200 and €300 per month instead of the €19 proposed by the law. Could that be the ultimate outcome as far as the SGP Group is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u38	I don't like all kinds of threats. I'd also like to find the optimistic tone. I would like to say that the government is almost unable to stand up to that kind of reasonableness. There is such a reasonable request for me to assume that this is going to be all right. These differences must be bridgeable. What I want to avoid is that we have nice gifts for groups of people, but that the bill is a little vaguely placed with the municipalities. I would find that an undesirable outcome. If you give a gift, which is this bill for a lot of people, then it has to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u39	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u40	The reasonableness... Well, who decides what's reasonable? When I look at the bill and see that it can be amended, that there is indeed financial compensation against it and that we can argue about it, then I think that the reasonableness is also in the bill. But ultimately, the ultimate question is: what is the consequence of a vote for or against a law? This will eventually fall with families who are in need of help and who sometimes have to pay between €200 and €300 per month. That is the consequence, at least it is more of a finding that this could ultimately be the consequence. However, I believe that there are sufficient safeguards in the law to meet the objections, to keep the finger on the wrist and see how it works. The reasonableness is thus at least as much in the legislative proposal as Mr Van der Staaij assumes on his part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u41	I understand the reasoning that it is in the coalition agreement and that this is how it is agreed. I understand that Mr Segers is also defending this. But on the other hand, we see the effects in municipalities. We have asked various municipalities in the preparations what developments they are seeing. We came across a lot of serious concerns back then. It would be nice to be able to remove these serious concerns by saying: we think that we have made a very good assessment of the extra costs, but if that proves to be something else, then municipalities need not be concerned that they will get into the financial problems. In fact, it would be even more beautiful if it didn't even mean that the facilities that all kinds of people need would fall apart. I do not want that to happen, and neither does Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr Van der Staaij calls this bill a gift. Do you no longer see this as a response to demographic change? Because there are more and more elderly people. There are more and more people who are at risk of getting sick or needing help. Don't you think this is much more an answer to that question than a gift?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u43	It's funny though: you usually hear as a non-government party that you're too unkind in the terms that bind you to government proposals. Now I admit that I use a very positive indication: I call it a "gift" for people who get into trouble because too little is being done for middle income, for example. But I certainly agree with Mrs Luck that this is not just a nice thing or a bonus that makes people happy. No, there's definitely good arguments for it. You'll meet important groups with this. So I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u44	We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you very much, also to Mr Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet, who speaks on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr. Chairman. The CDA has stated in its election programme that the accumulation of care costs for middle incomes in particular needs to be addressed. That is why we are pleased that this cabinet is taking a number of measures to tackle the accumulation of own payments in healthcare. The own risk in this cabinet period is limited to €385 and the capital income addition from the Long-Term Care Act is reduced from 8% to 4%. Today we are discussing another measure from the stack of measures: the introduction of the fixed rate of €19 per month as an own contribution to the Social Support Act. The CDA shares, like the government, that the Wmo 2015 should be accessible to everyone, regardless of income or wealth, and that municipalities remain fully responsible for access to the same Wmo. The municipality cannot deny a person access to the Wmo solely on the basis of his income and assets. The Social Support Act is not a law on poverty. It is not a law that allows people who have an income at welfare level or up to 130% of the statutory minimum wage. What does the Minister think of this position? Does he agree with the CDA that granting a tailor-made provision under the Social Support Act should not depend on someone's financial capacity? The support question should be leading the kitchen table conversation or research, not the wallet. This year, customised services are covered by the subscription rate through a general management measure. In a number of municipalities the household assistance is covered by the general provisions. This is often an initial provision that older people use. Then people pay the cost for this provision and a subscription rate for their other customization provision. The Minister states that next year, when the law comes into force, general provisions relating to a long lasting aid relationship of six months or so will also be covered by the subscription rate. It also does not accumulate and is related to other general provisions with own contributions. The CDA still has a few questions, since the concept of a sustainable aid relationship raises questions. The Minister states in the note following the report that he does not expect problems due to differences of interpretation regarding the concept of a sustainable aid relationship. What exactly does it mean, however, that the vast majority of people have a long-term aid relationship per facility? Isn't that what bothers you when you offer as much customization as you can at the Wmo? And is there a lasting relationship of assistance in recess care? Can there be so much exchange with home care workers that there is no lasting relationship at all? In short, can the Minister clarify this concept, including towards municipalities, with, for example, practical examples of what can be a lasting aid relationship? I might have another motion on it. The municipalities are concerned about the consequences of the subscription rate. They are largely compensated, but there are concerns. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister has a monitor with him to see what the effects are, such as the extent of suction and the possible deterioration of the supply of care. An important starting point is that the Wmo delivers as much customization as possible. The package of care or support can be different for the neighbor. But if a lot of customization is provided by the municipality, this makes it a little difficult for us to compare the effects of the subscription rate. However, the government states that policy freedom is taken into account in the monitor. Can the government explain this a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr Hijink has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u48	My question concerns the previous point. The CDA voted against the Social Support Act 2015 in 2014, partly because all kinds of assignments and additional tasks went to the municipality while a substantial cut was linked to them. We very much agreed with that, because you cannot give municipalities more tasks but in the meantime withhold money. Yet this is happening again. Municipalities are given an assignment: their own contributions must be reduced. There's less money coming in. They need to do more with less money. Does Mrs. Luck think that's decent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u49	Whether or not I think it is appropriate for the municipalities to use this money is not the question in this respect. The point is that we want to introduce the subscription rate and that everyone has access to care. The healthcare allocation is with the municipalities. The municipalities therefore have their full responsibility in this respect. Whether the CDA voted in favour or against in the past, we are now in favour of introducing this law. We are now responding to demographic developments. There will be many more sick and people in need of help. We know that. We also know they'll stay home longer. People want that, too. So we just need to put this in now and see how this goes through the monitor. I don't expect municipalities to have less money in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u50	Then I hope Mrs. Luck also listens to her own drivers. We receive messages from all over the country, from all kinds of municipalities, including from CDA aldermen. We are all being reported: with the compensation that is being proposed, we are simply not going to make it, especially with the huge deficits that we still have in the area of youth care. Surely it is right for these people to say: if you force us to lower our own contribution, will you allow us to take blows? Even the Council of State says that a deterioration in the quality of care and the provision of services is threatened by this law. The CDA has to listen to that kind of criticism, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u51	We do not expect this to be the case for the time being. It's only April and we started in January. Now let's go through the monitor and see how it works out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u52	I think this is a very strange argument, in the words of Mrs Bergkamp of D66 just now. We know that this scheme costs more than what the Empire is prepared to pay for it and that it is now being deposited with the municipalities. Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet says the same thing here as D66, namely: first let's see what happens, then there's a monitor and then we'll see if extra money is needed. Precisely that kind of reasoning, Mr President, I am terribly disturbed in this house. For example, in youth care, EUR 450 million has been cut to EUR 3 billion, and we have not even seen one dime of repair money afterwards. So why does Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet create another Waterloo here by saying: well, we'll introduce the scheme, we'll just let the municipalities fill in the gaps, the care will be taken away from the people; well, there will be a monitor in a while and if there really isn't enough money, we'll fit it in. What kind of reasoning is that? What kind of untrustworthy government is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u53	The way you talk, you can talk, but I don't. I've looked at the underlying figures and the calculations to come to this law. It's in all the pieces. There is a monitor to see if it is true and if the care we expect from it can also be delivered. I'd like to see that done for the time being. If-if questions and what else is gonna happen? You just can't say that. I think that the municipalities there have been sufficiently compensated for a calculation for the period ahead. If it's any different, we'll see through the monitor if the law can be implemented as we intended it. That's my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u54	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet, you are a member of the Second Chamber of the States-General. If you get a question, you can simply repeat your point of view but you can also try to answer the question. The question was about the fact that earlier cuts have been made and there have been major deficits before, for example on youth care, when we have been asking for repair money for years, years and years that is simply not going to happen. So the reasoning "that's what I'm explaining to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet here from "we know there's gonna be a shortage, we're throwing that over the fence of the municipalities, we're gonna wait for a monitor and when that monitor comes out that there's gonna be money, we're gonna look at it here again." ... Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet, that's not gonna happen! You are responsible for creating a large deficit, making people... We know this: material leads to a shortage of care. Why does the CDA take responsibility for taking care? That is the question and I hope that Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet will now come up with an answer and not repeat that there will be a monitor later and that we will see what happens. I just want a substantive answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u56	You have no question, you have simply taken a statement that it will not be enough. For the time being, I assume that people can now, all people, get access to care if they need it and that the municipalities will assess what care someone needs. This responsibility now rests with the municipalities. And we have to ensure that that law can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u57	We do interrupts in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u58	But I get the same answer twice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u59	That's the answer you get; I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet just says I'm taking a stand. That's what we do here. We debate here, take a stand or just come up with facts. For we know that it is material that municipalities in the past, if they had deficits, solve those deficits by making additional savings on, for example, the number of hours of care. I asked Mrs Poortvliet if she would take responsibility for that. And then she comes up twice with the answer that we are going to introduce first and that we will see in the monitor what happens to the deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u61	We're going to interrupt...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u62	You can't do that! Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet must know what she's responsible for. That before the monitor comes, people won't get the windows fixed anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mrs Agema, we have agreed to do interruptions in two!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u64	Then you can start screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u66	We're in the middle of a legal process here, Mr. Chairman. Then you can also pay a little attention to whether the members who are being questioned give a standard response learned in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u67	You asked a question, there is an answer to that. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens, who has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yes, but I don't want you yelling at me. I really don't think that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u70	In the interruption Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet had when Mr Van der Staaij spoke and in her own contribution she pointed to demographic developments: more elderly and more elderly people who want to stay home longer and perhaps need more care. That is what Mrs Poortvliet states as one of the underlying reasons for this bill. Wouldn't it be logical, if Mrs Poortvliet had that concern, not to wait and see if there might be chunks first, but to make it clear in advance that there is enough money for municipalities to be able to provide that care, taking into account demographic developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u71	My attitude isn't that I'm just waiting to see if there's gonna be chunks. I'm assuming this is a good idea. I have a good expectation of that. And I'm assuming that the people get the help they need and that the municipalities are on top of it. They also have that task and that responsibility to see for themselves what help people need. So I'm not assuming this would go well at all. I even welcome the fact that everyone now has access to that care. I'm not going to say in advance: "Oh, could things ever go wrong?" I'm not gonna do that. I do have questions, and I ask them to the Minister, if there has been enough consideration of certain effects. We are asking these questions; that is what we are debating right now. I do, but I assume that this will go well, that the calculations are correct, at least those that have been released on the implementation of this law. If things work out differently, we'll have that monitor for that, but I'm not going there in advance...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u72	I hear from Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet a number of times in a row that she assumes that it would all come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u73	Don't let go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u74	At the same time, she indicates that she thinks that monitor is necessary. In this way, she understands that this monitor can show that chunks have been made, or that people have less access to care than we all agree. Suppose that happens, does Mrs Lucky think that we should, for example, make sure that those chunks are repaired? Then I'm not talking about money going to the county, then I'm talking about people falling between shores and ships. According to the Council of State and many others in the country, vulnerable people are particularly at risk. Suppose that monitor shows that chunks have been made, that people can't get to the care they're entitled to. Does Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet say: I didn't assume it, I didn't expect it, but I see it now; we're going to sort it out nicely for those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u75	I don't know what that monitor's gonna do, but I'm gonna help you out a little bit. In fact, I've asked for that monitor a lot of times myself, and it's come. You've read it yourself, a, b, c, anyway. So I'm just waiting to see what comes out when that monitor is used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'd like to seduce the CDA to make a statement on the following. Because if it turns out, from that much-discussed monitor, that it is simply inadequate and that the care of the people at home, who are now also watching this debate and perhaps worrying about it, is really really not going well, what would you prefer, Mrs Luck? Is it then more money to the municipalities so that they can properly implement it? Or do you choose to take care and take care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u77	That's not what this lawsuit is about. And that monitor isn't really about it. That monitor looks at whether this law is being implemented as intended and that monitor also looks at whether there are external factors that influence it as intended and some of those criteria. That's what the monitor's for, to see what's happening. A monitor isn't there to say: then we don't do anything with it. Neither will the Minister, and nobody wants it in this country. We have a new system now. We go to the municipality, there is one rate that gives people access to the care and we are fantastic pleased with that. That's what we're gonna do, and there's a sum in it. That's what we need to figure out, I think. That monitor is just to see if that law achieves the effect it's intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u78	Whether it turns out from the monitor or not, if it simply shows that it is not working properly, that it is not working properly, then I ask the question again, and I hope for an answer, in line with Mrs Agema's remark just now: does the CDA still opt for additional resources for the municipalities so that they can implement it properly and adequately for all those people? Or does the CDA choose to reduce care and reduce care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u79	I might as well ask you that question, but I'm not. We're here to see if this is how we're gonna implement the law and how it's going. I'd like to leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union. Oh, I assumed you were done...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u81	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u82	You're far from finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u83	Not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u84	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u85	I still need a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u86	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u87	Let me see where I left off. An important point is that the Wmo delivers as much customization as possible. The package of care or support can be different with the neighbor. I already told you that once. If a lot of customization is provided by municipalities, it makes it difficult, in our view, to compare the effects of the subscription rate. However, the government states that policy freedom is taken into account in the monitor. I'm asking the government to explain this a little bit more. The December 2018 letter on the cross-compliance to be met by the monitor states that, in the short term, it is determined by which party the monitor will be carried out in the coming years. I ask the Minister how far we are on this route. Where are we now? The CDA Group is very pleased with this bill, which makes care accessible to all those who need care. The administrative burden for municipalities is also very limited. I get a lot of positive reactions from older people's associations and interest and patient organisations. They have also placed one great concern on me, namely how the municipalities will deal with the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal. I know that municipalities are responsible for this, but I ask the Minister to investigate how this is handled. I would like to make one final point. We hear stories that people are not well informed by the CAK or the municipality about the introduction and execution of the subscription rate. Can the Minister of Municipalities and CAK once again point to good communication? It's quite complicated and people need to be able to trust that they get the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr. Chairman. One of the main challenges in the area of care was to stop the accumulation of own payments. In particular, people who are chronically ill or disabled are confronted with a accumulation of their own contributions for the Wmo, the Wlz or medicines. Moreover, they often carry out their own risk of health insurance early in the year. That is why we agreed in the coalition agreement to prevent this accumulation of own payments. The own risk remains the same in the years to come. The own contribution in the Wlz has been reduced this year. Now there is also a ceiling for own payments for medicines. This bill also takes the final step in reducing the Wmo's own contribution by introducing the subscription rate. Together, these measures will ensure that costs for chronically ill and disabled people no longer increase unbridledly, but are finally slowed down. That is good news for all those people who want to participate and who deserve a full place in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mrs. Agema already has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u91	Yeah, I wonder how much these care costs will be slowed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u92	For an individual family that matters more than €200 per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u93	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u94	I think Mr. Segers is gonna put on some really big pants after all. Mr. Hijink has already provided a whole list of matters for which his own contributions and own payments apply. This is of course a drop on the glowing album. This is not the solution, the panacea for the accumulation of care costs. I also think it is wrong to paint the picture here that people who make a lot of their own payments, such as for hearing aids, for their stair lift, for their scooter, for their medicines that are completely out of the package, for their incontinence materials, for which I know a lot, will suddenly get much better. Where does Mr Segers base it on people suddenly getting better when this is introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u95	I think this is really very special. At household level, in individual cases, it is sometimes a cost that can go to the €300 per month. That goes to €19 per month. This is portrayed here as a tragedy, as a loss, as a tragedy. I think it's really handsome, I think it's really special. This is good news for people who need help, who depend on the Wmo. Yeah, we're lowering access. I happened to be there when we wrote the coalition agreement. Then we did add up everything: look what people have to pay, see where that could lead to care avoidance and what that means on an individual level. We have said in all these areas: there must be a brake on it, that threshold must be lowered. Then the PVV will say: all this has to go even further down, it is not enough. But to paint something beautiful, which is good for someone who now pays a lot and who goes to €19 a month, as a tragedy? I really think it's an achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u96	We do interruptions in two, but I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u97	Well, this is really ridiculous...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u98	Let me finish. I see this response from Mr Segers as a kind of re-question. That is why I would like to give Mrs Agema the floor once again to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u99	One, I want to know very specifically from Mr Segers how many households now pay €300 and then €17.50. How many are there? And two, he really can't insist here that it does something about the accumulation of care costs, just because of this one subscription rate. €385 own risk, if it's just the two of you €770. There are people who are already in a payment scheme in January for their own risk, who also have to pay their own contribution for almost everything, from physical therapy to medicines to what I know. And then Mr Segers here is going to create a bit of an image that he is doing something about it. It's a drop on the glowing plate. I am not saying that I am not prepared to vote in favour of this law if there are a few hooks and eyes out of it, to propose it to my group. But I do think Mr Segers is putting on a really big pair of pants by pretending he's doing something about the pile-up of care costs. This is a drop on the glowing plate. It's very little. Don't talk about it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u100	I'm not saying I took care of everything here myself as if it came from my own wallet. I say that I am defending a political choice here, and I am explaining it here. I am proud of the fact that we have lowered a number of the thresholds mentioned or have not allowed thresholds to rise further in a number of areas. Its own risk would be enormous. That would go a long way. That would be €100, €200 more in this period. There's a brake on that. You can always say that it can be better, that it can be different. You can do all that. But you're saying that's nothing? Explain that to the people who have to pay €19 instead of €300. Mr. Chairman. Why specifically a subscription rate? When drawing up the coalition agreement, targeted measures were carefully considered to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. It was found that 94% of households paying their own contribution to the WMO were fully or partially perfect for their own risk. So there is a big overlap. Moreover, it is mainly middle income that suffers from disproportionate accumulation of care costs. They cannot rely on the social minimums scheme and also benefit less from, for example, the care allowance. In order to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs but also to avoid care and reduce administrative burdens, it has been decided to introduce a subscription rate in the Wmo of up to €19 per month in order to reduce your own contribution. This rate has already been introduced in 2019 for customised services and, with the legislative amendment we are discussing today, will also apply from 2020 to the general provisions in the Wmo that have a sustainable aid relationship. Where the WMO's own contributions could amount to hundreds of euros a month, people will soon be faced with a uniform low rate. People up to the WAO age, often earners with a chronically ill partner, no longer pay their own contribution at all. That's all good news. At the same time, my group believes it is important that the self-existence test remains in place. Help and support from the Wmo to promote participation and self-reliance is only for those people who cannot arrange it in another way in their own network. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group is in favour of the subscription rate, but I am also aware that such a major change in the own contribution will not go unpunished. The National Ombudsman pointed out the problems of communicating with regard to the introduction of the subscription rate. For example, there is not enough distinction between customization and general facilities in the coverage. For the first category, the subscription rate has been applicable since January of this year, but not for the second category. Partly because of this people did not know which facilities were and were not covered by the rate. Furthermore, people in this transition year are faced with different invoices, for example from the municipality and from the CAK. So there is not yet a smooth transition. It is important that municipalities and the CAK, supported by the Ministry, ensure that citizens, clients, are properly informed and that they can assume that the information they receive is correct. What lessons has the Minister learned from the communication on the changes that have taken place in 2019 and what else does he intend to do with the municipalities and the CAK towards 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mrs Ellemeet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u102	I would like to come back to the point made by Mr Segers about its own strength and a social network. That is indeed important, and I think it is also at the heart of the law to look at it. But even if this is taken into account, there are, for example, people who are very wealthy themselves, who fit within the criteria and who have financed it until recently. Those people can learn about the subscription rate and think: well, that's attractive; I'm paying for the household help now and I can pay for it myself, but I do fall under the criteria, for example because I don't have a large social network, so I can have it financed by the government now. What does Mr Segers think of this movement that can arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mrs Ellemeet refers to the amendment she has tabled. You have to weigh what you pay for extra costs, for example to check that. Sometimes measures are generic. I am thinking, for example, of child support. In addition, we do not look at wealth or income. We say, "It's there for everyone who has a child." That goes for this, too. That has advantages, but that could have the disadvantage of having people say: those people could afford it themselves, but we still pay it out of the collective means. The balance can be to do it generically, because there is always a limit drawn that is arbitrary and then leads, for example, to a form of poverty trap. Someone who's just up there is jerking down, and someone who stays just below that line can take advantage of that. So the disadvantages can be so heavy that you say: let's do it generically. That is what was chosen, and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u104	Finally, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u105	I understand what Mr Segers is saying. You always have to weigh it up. I will certainly not say that there are only advantages, because there are also disadvantages. For me, however, it is quite different, precisely in the context of the enormous challenge we face when it comes to keeping care costs manageable and, at the same time, ensuring access to care, precisely for lower incomes. It's a lot of what we stand for together. Has Mr Segers taken these elements into account in this consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u106	We'll be the first to look at the people most vulnerable. That is something that is already in place and they are entitled to do so. There's a group upstairs that was often screwed: the middle incomes. They could not claim the minimums and fell out everywhere. That's the big move we're making right now. If Mrs Ellemeet says 'I want to exclude another group of them', then the disadvantages could be much greater than the feeling of injustice that people have when they ask themselves: this is not what collective means are meant for? I think it can be justified sometimes. In this case, it is justified to say: we make it generic; that saves a lot of execution and that prevents an arbitrary border, which can cause very acidic cases, for example someone who just falls under it or outside it. So I think it is very good to defend that we say: we look very closely at that own strength, what people can do and what their environment can do, but if you are eligible, then we will also allow you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u107	I'm trying to finish the debate today. That is why I have proposed that there should be no limit to the number of interruptions and to the interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u108	I didn't provoke anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u109	...to do in two. Mrs. Agema showed the need to do it in threes. Mrs Ellemeet is doing that again. I can allow interrupting in threes from now on, but I am sure that we are not going to finish the debate today. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr President, I will confine myself to the total number of interruptions. But I would like to finish it, because Mr Segers is now suggesting that it is a feeling of injustice. But the beauty of my amendment is that exceptions can also be made for cases which may indeed be poignant. I have just mentioned it in my contribution: it may be that you are above that income limit, but that there are circumstances that would make it undesirable in that individual case to ask for your own contribution. I have looked carefully at how we can fit it well into the existing administration system, so that it entails limited additional burdens. Mr Segers did not answer my question as to how we are faced with enormous rising costs of care. On the contrary, I often hear the Christian Union say: we need to talk about this realistically. That's also about this big group in the Wmo. So we can differ on that, but for me it was important to say: we have to work with a border, where exceptions must be possible. It is a high limit, because it is precisely those middle incomes that we really have to meet, but let us not forget to look also at the greater challenge we are facing, precisely in order to ensure that care for those middle and low incomes is accessible in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u111	A fair distribution of the burden and justice in taxing our people are the guiding principles of the Christian Union. But we do so in all kinds of other ways, for example within taxes. Mr Bergkamp pointed that out. For example, we do so because we have frozen our own risk, which increases the premium. There is already a form of justice in this, namely that the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. Because that premium is already going up for those who have to pay the premium, while those who cannot pay it are being compensated through care payments and are facing a frozen own risk. So there too, we are already responding to the desire that I share, namely to make it fair and to share the burden fairly. So we do that in all kinds of ways. And it doesn't have to be with every measure and always, and always income or wealth dependent. Sometimes there is also a generic measure. I think it is justified, because in so many other places we do apply justice and uphold it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u113	Following the adoption of this bill by the First Chamber, municipalities should clarify the costs of Wmo facilities through local regulations as soon as possible, but by 1 January 2020 at the latest. People need to know what they're up to. If this is feasible, I ask the Minister. I also ask this because it is not yet clear which general provisions will be covered by the subscription rate. Municipalities can also make their own choices. But can the Minister indicate which provisions he himself believes should be covered by the subscription rate? Is that part of day care and respite care? And can the Minister perhaps make clear for a number of examples what people will be paying later? How does it work, for example, when there is a combination of occasional facilities, such as a stair lift, and structural facilities, such as domestic assistance? Mr. Chairman. Not only has the Ombudsman expressed his concerns, but I also get many signals from aldermen who are concerned about the suction effect of the subscription rate. They are also faced with rising expenditure on youth aid and substantial adjustments to the distribution model for sheltered housing and social care. Mr Hijink pointed that out. That's where the concerns about the Wmo come in. Can the Minister say anything about the initial experience so far? Do the first months of 2019 indeed show an increase in the appeal to the Wmo? In particular, the municipalities fear that they do not have sufficient opportunities to intervene if the suction effect appears to be greater than expected, for example when people who actually belong in the Wlz start using the cheaper Wmo. My group therefore wants us to keep our finger firmly on the pulse. Good agreements have been reached with the VNG on monitoring. Is the Wlz's potentially aspirating effect to the Wmo also considered? If that suction action is too large, then a hook is included in the law that allows for additional rules to be set. Can the Minister indicate what additional rules he is thinking of limiting the suction effect, in addition to the measures that are already possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u114	My question concerns exactly that point. Mr Segers also said earlier that if it became apparent that municipalities had too little money to implement this law, there would be a hook in this law to lay down more detailed rules. But those rules can only mean that we give people less care and support. The Minister also writes literally: these are rules about "own strength," "mantle care" and "persons from their own network." So you actually recognise that there is a real chance that municipalities will not come up with the compensation they receive from the minister. You say: then we can call on the measure that is going to propose that municipalities can simply become stricter in allocating care. That's exactly what we don't want, isn't it? We don't want the subscription rate to cause any disruption of the offer, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u115	No, we don't want it to eventually lead to a loss of care. But the question is whether that should always be the paid care via the Wmo. These can also be other solutions. We need to keep those possibilities open. So, yeah, we need to monitor. Yeah, we need to keep the finger on the wrist. Yeah, we need to see what this means for people who depend on the Wmo, who appeal to it. We'll be hanging out with the congregations in there, too. But then we cannot say: there is only one solution, and that is immediately and always appropriate. Maybe that's necessary; I'm not ruling that out. You can never rule that out. We're there ourselves. The municipalities are here. We'll talk to our aldermen, too. The Minister does. In my view, that is the Minister's promise, and that is the clarity that the law gives. Yeah, we're gonna talk. Yeah, we're gonna keep the finger on the wrist. But there could be several solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u116	That is precisely the lack of clarity. In my view, that is the criticism that exists widely in the opposition. There is a lack of clarity as to how appropriate it is to have a budget that is inadequate. I think you're failing municipalities if you say: we're building a hook, so you're gonna be able to tighten up the allocation of care and facilities from the Wmo. So you are going to do exactly what the municipalities and the Council of State and the opposition warn widely about this. So you're gonna get stricter in the allocation and you're just gonna take people away from their care because you have a budgetary problem because this minister doesn't want to fit in too much. I believe that the Christian Union should be sensitive to this, because I believe that the last thing you want is for this law to lead to a total distortion. That's what's widely warned. I think you should take those sounds seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u117	But we take that seriously. I do not feel taken seriously when Mr Hijink suggests that I do not take that seriously. I was there when we first had talks with the VNG, with the representatives of local municipalities. They welcomed this proposal. They were pleased with the choice of this cabinet to apply the stair-on-strap-afsystematiek again, allowing municipalities to grow as public spending grows. It offers a space of more than 5 billion. So that gives these municipalities a lot of space. They were genuinely happy about that. They said, "We want to think along with this." There's been an estimate. This could cost about 290 million. That's been adjusted to 190 million. So there is also a lot of uncertainty. We don't know what it does for the clients. The promise here is: we're there, we're being monitored, we're being looked at to see if we're coming out and we're having those conversations. I can't rule out the fact that there may indeed be whining deficits that we don't want the client to suffer in the end. I can't rule that out. But you can't say in advance: there's only one solution, and that's more money? I can't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u118	Another question from Mr Hijink, very briefly and finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u119	It's about the order of things. If this were a very cool plan, 95% of the municipalities wouldn't be against it. 95% say get rid of this law; we don't want it. This is largely because they fear the deficits they are going to incur because the compensation is insufficient. That's one of the most important reasons to be against this law. You say that the VNG and the municipalities are very enthusiastic. Of course, that's just not the case. The vast majority of the directors want to get rid of this law. The support is minimal. That could be the Minister's solution. Of course, you have to monitor and monitor it, but precisely with the aim of being able to fund municipalities extra if they get in huge trouble because of the measure you and the minister would like. That's why you have a monitor. Why are you gonna keep an eye on it if you're not willing to make up for it eventually?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u120	I was there when we outlined the contours of, for example, the subscription rate and told you what financial space was involved. So this is also about the broad staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek, giving municipalities much more financial space. We have talked about this. They liked it. I can imagine aldermen holding their hearts. For example, there are serious concerns in the field of youth care. You're right to point that out. I'm having those conversations, too. I'm also told, boys, we're short. That's where we're at. We'll talk about that. I'm not deaf. I can hear that. Then we have a responsibility. That responsibility is also here. It does not mean that we say in advance: if you are short, we will always fit. 'Cause I don't know what's behind that. One municipality can do better than the other. Perhaps the kitchen table conversations are conducted better in one municipality than in the other. We cannot say in advance that the solution is always and everywhere more money. I can't say. I can't rule that out either; that's what I'm saying. This creates an obligation to look very closely at this in the coming period. At least I hope the law goes through; we'll see. 'Cause what do we do it for? We'll finally do it for the client. After he had that accumulation of all the care costs, the client now has to deal with lower thresholds and with more accessible help, which ultimately helped him. That's what I'm doing it for. I hope that the aldermen come out and that they can cooperate, but the highest goal is not to reassure and cheer every alderman at all times and everywhere. Our goal here is to provide people with good care. I think we can do this. If we can't do it, we really need to keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mr Segers continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u122	As I said, the initial cost of introducing the subscription rate was estimated at 290 million. Later on, the CPB substantially adjusted this estimate to 190 million. However, municipalities thought that this estimate was too optimistic. I think it is important for us to be able to assess the annual results of the monitor in a timely manner. Does the Minister agree with me that it is important to have a clear view of the actual cost of the subscription rate? And is he therefore prepared to have the CPB re-evaluate the costs by 2020 on the basis of current CAK figures? I'm considering tabling a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. In his reply, the Minister himself more or less states that we are not yet in a position to assess all the negative effects. That is why this extensive monitor is so important, but it is also important to keep an eye on the adjustments that municipalities will make in the Wmo. Thus, there may be a shift from customisation to general amenities. Especially if municipalities decide to keep some of the general provisions out of the subscription rate, this can lead to reduced care and freedom of choice and self-direction if people are less often able to use assistance and support via a pgb. How is it monitored that the support remains appropriate and remains in line with the needs and specific characteristics of a client's situation? As a result of the subscription rate, a small one of the Wmo clients is threatened to pay a higher own contribution. In the written reply, the Minister states that this group will be limited, but in view of the objective we have in mind, I find this undesirable. Shouldn't we do everything we can to prevent people from falling due to the subscription rate? And can the Minister provide an insight into the size of this group and the financial impact, so that we can see if and how additional measures are possible? For a limited group of several dozen clients with a pgb protected residence, the own contribution as a result of the change in the system will be significantly higher anyway. What amounts are we talking about, I ask the Minister. And will the Minister ensure that this group is informed about this adaptation in good time and in good time? Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that care is also taken more widely into account in the adjustment of own contributions. For example, the introduction of the subscription rate increases the care drop due to a transition from Wmo to Wlz care in a home situation. As a result, people may not take away the care they actually need. We have to prevent that. I understand that the investigation will be completed by the end of this year. Can the Minister outline what the next steps are? Mr President, concluding. My group believes that the subscription rate in the Wmo is a good step to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs and to further reduce administrative burdens, but at the same time we must avoid this legislative amendment leading to negative effects. That is why it is good that we have a solid monitor to keep the finger on the wrist, even at the cost. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you very much. It is a good thing that Members are asking a lot of questions. We're dealing with an important law. This afternoon, in connection with the other debates, we only have very little time, really no time, to run out. So I would like to give the profit warning, including to the Minister, that we are probably not going beyond the first term of the Chamber today. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When you are ill or have a disability, you deserve the best possible care in this country. Fortunately, we live in a country where day in, day out of tens of thousands of healthcare providers ensure that these people receive care in a personalised and warm way. That is a fantastic right for everyone in the Netherlands. We all contribute to this through taxes, premiums and own payments, even if we do not yet need care, because good care is not free. But many people, especially chronically ill and people with disabilities, who often have a life-wide and life-long demand for support and who pay their own contribution to social support or long-term care, also fully or partially fulfil their own risk. Or they have to pay for drugs, for example. This cabinet takes a series of targeted measures to reduce this large accumulation of own contributions and care costs. Because that accumulation also leads people to avoid caring. That has just become clear in the debate on the interruption. I am glad that it has now been established that this can also be a consequence of policy. Today we are discussing one of the laws that will reduce the accumulation. The Social Support Act will be amended so that, as from next year, in addition to customised services, the general provisions with a sustainable assistance relationship will also be covered by the subscription rate. All these facilities will soon be delivered for a fixed amount of €19 per month, if they are awarded by the municipality. But this law is not just about combating the accumulation of healthcare costs. The law also deals with simplification and adjustment of the regulatory burden. Look at the CAK and the municipalities. For many people, it is always a form of uncertainty when the letter says how high the costs are. For people who use this, it's important that they know what they're up to. I therefore consider the simplicity and transparency of this law to be of great benefit. Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that we are in favour of this legislative amendment. This is also part of the coalition agreement. We still have a few questions. It is important, for example, for everyone to understand what is and is not covered. That's a bit of a gray area, isn't it? I noticed that also to some of Mrs Ellemeet's questions about this. Municipalities retain the freedom to decide for themselves whether or not something is covered by the tariff for general provisions, except in the case of the sustainable aid relationship. If we are going to fill that out a little more, it is certainly a question of whether this includes standard day-to-day spending, respite care and guidance. This is a legal treatment and it is important to get a little more clarity and coloration. Of course, I have also read the note, but there is a grey area. The SP asked about this: if these matters are temporary, perhaps they are not covered again? It is therefore important to clarify this. As far as my group is concerned, this also applies to house adjustments. We have also asked questions about this. What exactly is a housing adjustment? Does that include raising a toilet, for example? In his reply, the Minister comes up with the definition of a housing adjustment according to Article 1 of the Wmo. He then said that the changes to the toilet could fall underneath. That means it can't be done either. This is just an example, but it would be nice to get some details from this example. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention the parental initiatives, a point which my colleague from the Christian Union also spoke about. There is still uncertainty about this when it comes to the pgb-funded initiatives. These are often parental initiatives. They are now called "pgbs without housing component." Soon, when the new law applies and has its effect, I believe, from 2020 onwards, those initiatives will no longer be covered by protected housing. That's a big deal. What does that mean for these initiatives? Do they have to gather their hours together? We had a very nice debate on the parental initiatives not so long ago. I think it would be a real shame if, with this amendment of the law, we were to contribute to something that we should actually see as an undesirable side effect. Which contribution system is therefore applicable? Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of exchange about the sucking effect and the fear of it. My group also has the concern whether this could lead to municipal provisions being compensated for. So you get a break, a smaller assortment, for example with the house adjustments. Does the Minister want to reflect on that? A number of municipalities have also introduced a subscription rate for their WMO facilities. That's what the Minister writes. We have also been able to see in the reply that there are no signs yet that this is going to go out of the way or that there are very big problems. Is that still true now that we've gone a few months further? In any case, it was a positive vote on the possible trigger effect. I am also glad that there is a monitor, because it is important that we really look at whether there is a direct causal link. We really need to look at it purely and rule out issues such as demographics, price indices and municipal policy. I think it's really tricky to say it's one thing or the other, but I think that monitor needs to be very clean, so we know what we're talking about. So the monitor is an important instrument and I have a few questions about it. Is it true that client organisations are also involved or that they have already agreed on a monitor? We would also like to hear whether it is already clear which party will perform the monitor, and can this party, like the monitor, also count on support? In this debate we notice that the monitor is very important. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of its own implementation test of November 2018, the VNG has formulated a number of good framework conditions. The legislative proposal needed to be clarified quickly so that municipalities could take it into account. The communication between the CAK and the municipalities had to be well aligned with the new law. Finally, there had to be a fall-back scenario for the data delivery to the CAK. An option should also be provided for small healthcare providers which does not lead to disproportionate costs. Can the Minister indicate whether these four conditions have been met? I am thinking in particular of the last two. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. When people need care and support, we need to ensure that they receive care. This means that the accumulation of health care costs must not lead to the avoidance of care, precisely the accumulation of healthcare costs that affects people with disabilities and chronic illnesses. This law is not in itself; there are other measures. I think that we should look at this fully together. D66 therefore supports this law and feels supported by the client organisations, which have expressed a positive view of this law. Of course, we also understand a number of concerns expressed in this Chamber, and we look forward to the Minister's response to them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the introduction of the subscription rate in the Wmo, the Social Support Act. This means that people who use a tailor-made facility that is tailored to a personal need and the possibilities of a pgb or one of the general facilities to be designated for this purpose will pay their own contribution of €19 per month. By setting a ceiling on this contribution, the aim is to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs if you fail to meet health needs. That stacking is seen as a punishment for being sick and hits people in their wallets. Hanging on to that stacking, that's good. What is less beautiful is that my contribution will be focused on it, and it is feared that this scheme will lead to a significant increase in, for example, the number of applications for domestic aid from people. I would simply say that those who put their cleaning lady aside and knock on the door of the municipality, because their income and wealth are no longer taken into account. They are simply a lot cheaper if the government is going to pay, even though they can do it very well themselves. A significant increase in the number of applications leading to significantly higher costs for municipalities, costs for which, according to many, municipalities are not sufficiently compensated. They're gonna have to go fuck themselves and that's gonna be felt. For example, municipalities will make applications more difficult, set thresholds that vulnerable people will first stumble on; vulnerable people for whom access to care is not enough, as the Ombudsman has pointed out on a number of occasions. Municipalities will meet the agreement to pay decent rates to home care organisations even less than they already do, so that even more employees in home care can whistle for a raise. Already, almost one in three municipalities does not pay such a decent rate. If municipalities get even more squeezed financially, it will become less than more and home care will become even less attractive to work in. And there is already such a shortage of staff, which in turn leads to waiting lists or not being able to get help from people who do. Municipalities may have to make cuts elsewhere in the social domain, for example by removing them in all kinds of schemes that are intended for people with narrow wallets. Those people will eventually become the child of the account. The fear of such scenarios exists among many parties in the field. With municipalities themselves, with clients, disabled people and patient organisations, with senior citizens' organisations, with the Council of State, with the Ombudsman and at least with me and a number of colleagues. Actually, it's just not with the Minister, at least not to that extent. The minister thinks that municipalities get enough money, even more than enough money. And that, while a lot of municipalities are already barely able to make ends meet because they are already seriously lacking in, for example, youth care or fear that they will get into even more trouble because of the recently published new distribution model for, for example, protected housing and social care. This will lead to 72 million less in the province of Gelderland alone, which will put even more pressure on the finances of municipalities such as Apeldoorn, Nijmegen and a lot of others. Many expect an additional gap as a result of the introduction of the subscription rate. After a lot of discussion, the Minister finally proved willing to keep his finger on the wrist, as he himself says, so to start monitoring how things are going. That is a step forward, but if we are not careful this monitoring has something of "when the calf has drowned, the well is muffled." You can only see afterwards that things have gone wrong, if the suffering has already been suffered and the pain has already felt. That is why I believe that this monitoring should be preceded by a number of arrangements. The first is that the starting point is that, for example, people with a smaller stock exchange, often the most vulnerable inhabitants of a municipality, should not suffer from the introduction of the subscription rate, not directly because, for example, it becomes more difficult to obtain a WMO facility, but also not indirectly, if, for example, they suffer from cuts elsewhere in the social domain. Let me mention just one: the minimum regulations that municipalities have. The second is therefore that they should also be monitored, i.e. both direct and indirect effects. In the setup of the monitor as it is now, that is not the case. The third is that it has to be made clear in advance that if that monitor shows that the costs for municipalities are higher than the amount they get and they are therefore going to make access to the Wmo more difficult or have to cut back elsewhere, they will be adequately compensated, so get money, enough money. The fourth, finally, is that people who are disadvantaged, who might be the most vulnerable people, will receive compensation or a negative decision will be reconsidered. I should like to hear the Minister's response to these points, which are important for the Labour Party at least. What I would also like to hear from the Minister is precisely what he means by the repeated statements for today that the introduction of a subscription rate will not and should not lead to people who are designated and who need it being supported or not receiving sufficient support. Does he mean what I think he should mean, namely that people should not suffer in any way from the introduction of the subscription rate, not directly or indirectly, as I said just now? Does the Minister mean that he is therefore prepared to keep his finger on the wrist on that too? Or does the Minister mean precisely that I fear that the pain can be placed somewhere else quietly, for example by cutting down on the minimums, the people with the narrowest grants? Yeah, that's what congregations are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u127	Mrs Hermans has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u128	I have a clear question on the four points that Mr Kerstens has just raised. The fourth point concerns compensation or the re-evaluation of an application with which something went wrong. I just don't quite understand. Could he clarify that fourth point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'm gonna try. We're gonna monitor. That's a step forward, I just indicated. In such a monitor is only embedded that you can only find afterwards that things did not go well, that, for example, their access has been formally squeezed off too much, that people have received rejections where they should have had a positive decision. A lot of parties in the field and a lot of parties here in the Chamber fear that fate will affect in particular the most vulnerable inhabitants of the municipality. If we now see at the monitor that things have gone wrong, that people have fallen between shore and ship, and that, as I said to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet, there is a serious need to look at how this can be repaired for the people who have suffered from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u131	Apparently, that was a clear explanation. That's good. How am I supposed to see the possible general measure of governance announced by the Minister, which he says offers an opportunity for action if undesirable effects occur? What kind of unwanted effects are we talking about? Does the Minister agree with me that the additional rules to be included in that general measure of governance might reduce the problems for municipalities, because they all provide incentives to raise thresholds and thus reduce costs, but rather increase problems for people and especially vulnerable people? The threshold that one, the municipality, creates as a solution, only makes it more difficult for the other, the vulnerable resident, to enter, to enter that Wmo. In that "solution"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These are all things that sound to me all of a sudden as suggestions to municipalities to make it easier to reject applications. Wouldn't that be putting the horse behind the cart? The solution for such an extra influx that municipalities will get into trouble would be that people who can't afford it themselves would be less easily entitled to a WMO facility. That does not seem to me to be a solution, which seems to me to be a new problem. I ask the Minister: is that conclusion correct? Is the Minister not afraid, if he sees this general measure of governance as a solution, that we will again have a whole series of legal procedures on whether what municipalities are going to come up with can and should be done? Then we will not only be on for a long time, but at that time a lot of people will be left with uncertainty and uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. By introducing the subscription rate, the difference with the own contribution in the Long-Term Care Act will become even greater. Mr Van der Staaij pointed that out. How does the Minister view that? Does he not think that people will try to stay under the Wmo as long as possible for financial reasons, with all the consequences? How does the Minister view the Ombudsman's view that the subscription rate had a false start at the beginning of this year? The communication about this was too rosy or actually misleading and led to a great deal of confusion and disappointment among people. In the run-up to today's debate, I have tabled a number of amendments aimed at giving the Chamber a stronger position in monitoring the effects of the law and adjusting the law in time. These effects can be considerable, as I have pointed out, as a number of colleagues have pointed out. I think we should be on top of that. The amendment in part No. 10 concerns the monitor that's coming up. What is being monitored and when will this lead to intervention? The latter must be quick, I think. The amendment in part No. 11 is about the general measures of governance that may be taken. How and when will the Chamber be involved? If it's up to me, it's serious and it's on time. The amendment in part No. 12 is about when the law is being evaluated. If it's up to me, it'll be sooner than anticipated. Finally, Mr President. With this bill, the Minister hands over to the municipalities a steering tool to keep the costs manageable and he also demolishes the Council of State to point out the principle that the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens of the Social Support Act. A pillar under solidarity is lost. On top of that, the negative effects of this law, which many of us have anticipated, are likely to fall on the weakest shoulders. They are directly or indirectly affected if municipalities are not in a position to do so. That is unacceptable as far as the PvdA is concerned. I therefore believe that the Minister should prevent this and that he should ensure that the people with the weakest shoulders, the most vulnerable people, the people who really cannot suffer this, are not the victims of his legislative proposal. Not a little bit, but completely, and not afterwards, but now. That's what I'm asking the Minister for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u132	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema, who speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I recognized Mr Van der Staaij's feelings. I just didn't have them in the preparation of this law, but already in the budgetary treatment in 2017, which we had then cleared up after the debate on the government statement. At that time, of course, it was already clear that there would be a subscription rate and what the conditions would be for it. This law is, of course, a sign of this minister's policy. The first impression is often: wow! But then you often see that this is nice weather playing and that there are many hooks and eyes. Usually there are so many, that, like now, it really makes you feel like a jerk. You then have doubts about giving support to such a basic good proposal. We often talk about our own risk here in the Chamber. Many chronically ill, disabled and elderly people are already guaranteed to lose their own risk of health insurance every year. As many as 45% of insured persons make up their own risk each year. That scared the hell out of me, Mr. Chairman. That's almost half of the insured. On top of that there are also the own contributions and own payments for everything. I mention medicines that have been thrown out of the package, paracetamol and omeprazole, and domestic help, which we hear a lot of coming along today, but also physical therapy, hearing aids, the dentist, mentoring, dentures, transportation, house adjustments like a stair lift, aids such as a wheelchair, incontinence equipment, grocery service, meal service and daily consumption for the dementia of the elderly. When the time comes, the own contribution for admission to an institution amounts to up to €2,200 per month. However, the own risk is identified as the cause of the payment problems and the avoidance of care, and the above-mentioned own contributions and own payments are often underexposed. Ergo, these changes to the law seem to solve a lot. That's not true. Something is enlightened, but not much for the people who are sick. Own contributions are relatively often small, but they can be high if people use multiple services. In my book, which I presented in 2015, I explained the financial situation of Ingrid, which is really sinking through the bottom. This is because of everything she has to pay herself with her low income. Care is expensive. But for those who are sick, care is most expensive: they pay the most. Many sick people can hardly keep their head above water financially or are suffocated by all the work of regulation. For them this arrangement will therefore be a small relief. It is good that taking care of them with this bill becomes a little more affordable and a little easier in terms of administration. But at the same time, there is also a part of our concern here. The Central Planning Bureau calculated that this measure will lead to 290 million euros lower revenue for municipalities. A second estimate showed that it is about EUR 190 million. As we often see with the CPB, ex post estimates can apparently be quite different. But we don't know the realization figures. Despite the lower estimates, the compensation remains unchanged. It has now been estimated at EUR 45 million at EUR 145 million. And 45 million in this estimate is for the municipalities to solve themselves. Towns that are already cramped with cash. Municipalities that have already dropped a lot on domestic aid. Municipalities which have already halved domestic aid over the last ten years. Of course, the Minister will hide behind it that 380 municipalities will deal with this problem differently. But we all know that this material will lead to even more balding in a sector that has already been so hard hit during the previous cabinet period. Municipalities will be cutting again at hours of domestic help. How can the Minister guarantee that the introduction of the subscription rate will not be at the expense of hours of care? Municipalities do not take it as closely with the quality of care as they can keep their hands on the wallet. That's what they like to do, we've seen. The question is: what is the reason for this wrong economy? In the period 2012-2021 we count 10.5 billion euros in structural windfalls on VWS, on top of the cuts. Then why are we sitting on this $100 million? Why keep these 100 million in their pockets in advance, while there are 10.5 billion in structural windfalls in the period 2012-2021, on top of the cuts? Why not settle these 100 million neatly with the municipalities? I'd like to get some explanation about that. Mr. Chairman. Municipalities fear a huge influx when everyone starts paying the subscription rate of €19 per month, but the minister does not expect any suction effect. However, it will continue to monitor growth closely. If they do take place, there is still a loophole in the law: the possibility for lectures to attach more detailed rules to access to the scheme by means of a general measure of governance. This does not seem desirable to me. This hook will then, instead of simple, make this system complicated again and therefore expensive. Did the Minister even get this hook passed on? How much is this hook? What a shame it would be if this hook still made the arrangement expensive. Why would you want to make this scheme dependent again? Why would you want to run the risk that municipalities will cut down on hours of care if they themselves cannot match the estimated 45 million euros? But we're not there yet. The Minister also wants to make it possible, through an AMvB, to extend the usual standard of care, i.e.: the material compulsory household care system can be extended. As you know, this material obligation to provide care is a bridge too far for us anyway, let alone an extension of it. As far as we're concerned, this AMvB doesn't come: not now or never. I have the amendment in respect of item No. 15 submitted. I also ask the Minister why he chooses an arrangement, which is actually so beautiful in the base, by destroying so many hooks and eyes. How many commitments is he willing to make to the Chamber to get this change of law through the Upper Chamber? That is where the government has lost the majority and therefore promises must be made to the opposition. The Minister can think about it for a while. I see a lot of opposition parties here that really want things to be fundamentally different. I also see very different things from left to right; I find that very interesting. I see that the Minister is not so involved in the debate for a moment, but I am very curious about that. I'd like to hear that right away in the Prime Minister's first term. I don't want to hear that law goes on and he'll do it afterwards. No, I'd like to know from the Minister what his options are and what he's going to do. I am not in favour of Mrs Ellemeet's solution with the income-dependent limit. I'm more in line with Mr. Hijink and Mr. Kerstens. Which opposition parties is the minister going to deal with? It's gonna be more exciting over the next two years. But I would like to be able to debate it in this House, and I do not want things to be settled suddenly without us being involved. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, I had one more question. The CAK has had to do a lot in recent years and have had to make a lot of changes. The CAK will also implement these arrangements. Can the CAK even handle that? Because I get the impression that we may not be here this year, but we will be debating a succumbing CAK next year or the following year. We're asking so much of that organization, I'd like to know more about that. You can feel on your slippers that at some point things go wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Hermans, who speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u135	Mr. Chairman. A stair lift, help clean your house or do something nice for an afternoon at the community center. They are different things to see, but they have an important similarity: for people they make a big difference. Whether you're old or young, sick or healthy, we all want to live our own lives in our own home and participate in the ordinary things in life. If you can't do that yourself or with some help from family and friends, you should be able to count on support from the municipality. People now pay their own contribution, based on income or wealth. The result is that this contribution can be substantial for many people. For many people, this own contribution comes on top of their own risk or their own payments for medicines. For example, care and support costs for people are literally piling up, with the result that people refrain from receiving support from the municipality. Mrs Ellemeet quoted a fine quote from the Minister's reply on the very important preventive effect that the municipal support can have. The VVD therefore supports the cabinet's approach to addressing the accumulation of healthcare costs. The introduction of this single subscription rate for the Wmo is part of this approach. This proposal leads to a substantial reduction in the costs of middle income in particular. And maybe it's just as important that it all gets a lot simpler, with considerably less paperwork. That is good news for people who use the Wmo or would like to do so, but refrain from doing so. This year the subscription rate has started and with this bill we make the introduction of the subscription rate final. But in the bill, some things are just changing compared to this year's introduction. That's why I have a few questions. Is it true that the municipalities can adjust the maximum amount downwards, but not upwards? Do I understand correctly that only for the facilities that the municipality explicitly states are not covered by the subscription rate, can a separate own contribution or payment to people be requested? And what is the starting point? Perhaps "zero measurement" is a better word here in the monitor for mapping the effects on the use of WMO facilities, both financially and in what it means for the people who use them? Mr. Chairman. The concerns of municipalities about the possible increase in the use of the Wmo have also reached my group. Of course, it is a good thing that these concerns are expressed and, of course, we need to monitor them carefully. However, my group considers the concerns on some fronts to be premature and partly illogical. That illogical fact is in our minds that we want a certain group of people who are now abandoning the use of the Wmo, to find their way to the municipality. The fact that the use will increase slightly is an intended effect of this law and that municipalities will also be compensated for it. I use the word "previous" because we haven't even really started yet. We also see that in municipalities which have been working for a long time with a form of a subscription rate, the effects that are now so feared are lacking. Let's not forget that the core of the Wmo just stays intact, because when someone knocks at the municipality for help or support, there is a conversation about why that support is needed and whether there are perhaps other ways to fill it out. The room for municipalities for that conversation, the kitchen table conversation, doesn't change anything. I have already mentioned this in an interrupting debate with Mrs Ellemeet. That conversation becomes even more important, you might say, precisely in view of the concerns expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u136	Mr Hijink has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u137	I wonder if the VVD learns from past mistakes. In recent years, savings have been made very hard on youth care, but also on the Wmo, while municipalities have been given more tasks. We've seen a bald blow everywhere. Then you should think, even as a VVD man,: wait a minute, maybe we shouldn't leave another assignment with the municipalities with too little money? Surely you can expect that there is some learning ability at the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u138	The bill we are discussing here is intended to reduce costs for people who use or would like to make use of the Wmo. That is the starting point, and my group fully supports it. As I said, the concerns expressed by municipalities have also reached my group. I can even imagine. Only, I say, let's get to work now, and let's look at the kitchen table between the municipality and a resident to see if the application is justified and whether there is indeed support from the municipality, or whether someone can arrange it in another way. Let us get to work on this and monitor the effects of the introduction of this proposal. If we can see the effects, we can have the discussion about what those effects mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u139	But this is also what they said in 2015: we're going to take away half a billion dollars from youth care and hard cuts in daily spending and other parts of the Wmo, and then we're going to see how it works out; the municipalities will solve it. Now you're doing the exact same thing again. You are placing an order with the municipality, namely to reduce the own contribution within the Wmo. I agree with that assignment in itself; super good, we have to do that. But why not make sure the finances are in order? If the coalition and the minister from The Hague want to impose a reduction in their own contributions, to which I have no objection at all, why not simply provide the money that municipalities need? Isn't that just a decent policy? That's with decency, isn't it? Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr Hijink suggests that this cabinet does not, and I do not agree with him. The municipalities will be compensated for this specific measure. In addition, agreements have been made within the framework of the inter-administrative programme, which means that there really is extra money going to municipalities. I would like to stress once again that this proposal is aimed at reducing costs for people who use or would like to make use of the WMO, and it is precisely because of its high own contribution that it is too often abandoned. For these people, we want to make access to the Wmo easier and lower the threshold. These people report to the city to apply for Wmo support. Then there is a conversation and it has to be weighed whether or not someone is claiming support. We are going to monitor very carefully whether the use of the Wmo will be increased specifically by this measure. We look at the effects, both from a financial point of view and at the support to people. If we have the effects in view and know the causes of them, we'll look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u141	Finally, Mr Hijink, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u142	It can be short. It is a fundamental point: do you think that you can throw an order over the fence with the municipalities, an order they themselves are not waiting for, without delivering the money that the municipalities need to carry out that assignment? Mrs Hermans says they're being compensated. No, they're not being compensated enough. That's what all the aldermen say, and that's what the entire opposition says here. That even says the Council of State. Everyone's warning for a break. Does Mrs Hermans think that it is right and proper in principle, if the State imposes a measure on municipalities which the municipalities themselves do not want to do with too little money? I think that is quite wrong. I think the VVD should feel the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u143	I'm gonna keep stressing what I just said. We're not throwing an assignment over the fence. The task of implementing the Wmo has been with the municipalities for a number of years. What we are doing is significantly reducing the costs that people pay to make use of the Wmo facility. That is our commitment and that is why I support this bill. And yes, I have some questions about it. I have already asked a few and I will come to a number of questions in the future. I would like to stress once again that I think this monitor is important. I think it's part of our work that if you introduce a proposal or a policy, you follow what happens. If any effects arise that require adjustment, then you have to respond to that. I really think it is too one-sided to let that be purely and simply a financial issue, because there are many other aspects that you can look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u144	I don't think there's anyone in this house who's gonna reduce this to just a financial issue. I think everyone here is saying that it is a good thing that the middle income costs go down. So that's what I wanted to say first. Mrs Hermans says that it is a good thing that the CPB has tried to estimate the evolution of the costs associated with the subscription rate. It also says that it is a good thing that the Empire compensates for these additional costs and that agreements have been made about them in the intergovernmental programme. So Mrs Hermans shares the premise that it is a responsibility of the Empire and municipalities to take this well, including financially. That's good news. In his own explanatory statement, the Minister, as well as the CPB, states that it is difficult to predict what that pulling power will be. All we ask is this. If it turns out that these costs are higher than estimated because it is also difficult to establish them now, will the cabinet also assume its responsibility to finance these additional exceedances compared to the current estimate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u145	There's a lot of assumptions in this. One is that it could cost extra money. I think it is right that we should follow that and then look at the causes of the effects that we are seeing. Do people find their way to support now? Has the financial threshold that people now experience to apply for support been removed? Is there a good conversation between the municipality and the applicant for Wmo support about what someone needs? Do you really need it from the municipality or can you organise it yourself in a different way? And yes, there is also the financial impact. The point I am making here is that I think it is really too early and premature to sit purely and alone on financial compensation, because I really want to see first what the effects and causes are and what measures are needed to combat these causes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u146	Again, I do not think there is anyone who says that we should mention an amount now, because we do have to see how it works first. It is more than just finance, but it is also about finance and also about the fact that the criteria that we are now applying for access to the Wmo are still in place and that there will be a larger group going to the municipality to fund these facilities collectively. I agree with Mrs Hermans that it is a good thing in many cases, that it is a good thing that people who are now taking care do not come to the municipality in a moment, but it may also be that this group is much larger than is currently expected. We do not know that, but it is the principle of good governance that we are saying here: municipalities, we give you a task, if that task is financially different, then we will also stand behind you and take our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u147	I'll repeat what I just said. We're gonna do that monitor. There's gonna be one. I think we should look at a lot of aspects and also at the causes. Then you're going to take action or not. I really think it is far too limited to simply reduce it to financial measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u148	I am going to serve Mrs Hermans after her sighing that it would be far too narrow to look only at financial matters. I am not going to talk about the causes that may be behind it, if we note that it is going wrong. I'd like to talk about the effects. I hear everyone saying that these effects lie with municipalities, but I think they lie only with municipalities in the first instance. If it goes wrong, these effects eventually lie with the inhabitants of that municipality and probably, possibly, with the most vulnerable inhabitants. Mrs Hermans has just asked me for some clarification. I actually think that if there are any negative effects as a result of the introduction of this law, which comes up in monitoring, we need to look at how we can straighten it out. How does Mrs Hermans view that? Then it's not about the causes, then it's about the effects. Not for municipalities, but for people, for vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u149	I did indeed ask that question to Mr Kerstens because I could not quite place it. Let me give you an example: someone wants domestic support but does not get it, and the monitor shows that it should have. I don't quite see how you can make it up to me with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u150	I can make a suggestion. It is then obvious to give someone the opportunity to make that application, but in the meantime someone may have had to make a wasted house or a lot of extra costs which have caused major problems in the financial system at home. I think there are plenty of opportunities to make serious work of it if all of us do not want those effects and yet we see them, to see how we can eliminate them. I am not going to prescribe how that should be done here, but I would like to hear that the VVD also thinks that this should be looked at and that a solution should be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u151	For the VVD it is important that everyone, wherever you live and whatever you earn or have spared in your life, should be able to count on support from the municipality if you need it and if the conversation with the municipality has shown that the municipality is also the appropriate party for this. If you then make agreements with the municipality for support, you should be able to count on it. If you don't get it, you'll be compromised in your legal certainty and we'll have to do something about it. In the example you are setting, should that be the case before, something did not go well somewhere along the way and someone should be able to make a new application. I think we can do that now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u152	Finally, Mr Kerstens briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u153	Very briefly and finally. I can do that. That's what I said. But the point is that something may have happened in the meantime, that extra costs have been incurred or that additional misery has occurred. If we all say here that we do not want vulnerable people to be victims, and if we all see that this is the case, I would like to hear that we are seriously looking at how we can do justice. You used the term almost yourself to those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u154	I also think in this particular case that the monitor will play an important role, that we can also see the causes that have caused the effects. If we are aware of this, we can also determine whether or not we should take compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u156	Let's see where I left off. Yeah, those kitchen table calls. Its importance may be enhanced by this law. That customization is and remains a starting point in the Wmo. Of course, that space for customization also creates a responsibility, namely to engage in the conversation with anyone who calls on the municipality for help and to look seriously at whether, and if so, in what form the municipality should provide support. I read in a municipality's WMO regulation: "If someone hires private aid under unchanging circumstances and for example for a long time, calls on the Wmo, the application will be rejected." Of course, the presence of this private aid can be an indication of whether someone is really in the right place with the municipality to apply for this household help in that conversation, that famous kitchen table conversation. But if this passage means that applications are automatically rejected on the grounds that there was a private aid, then in the view of my group that interest of that individual research, that individual conversation between the municipality and the applicant for support, is ignored. In other words, I think you're skipping the core of access to the Wmo. My question to the Minister is: how does he view this? Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to get to work and focus our energy on supporting people who need it, rather than thinking, discussing and preparing for possible measures now, on effects that may arise, while the intention of the law is actually so simple: reducing the costs for people. Costs for support at home or in your daily life to continue to participate as much as possible and live your own life. We must continue to work on this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u157	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Geleijne on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr. Chairman. Care must remain affordable for everyone, now and in the future. With the current accumulation of its own contribution, this does not apply to everyone. The care premium, the full use of your own risk, the own contributions to medicines and tools, things you need in the care but not eligible for reimbursement and the own contribution within the Social Support Act or the Long-Term Care Act. If all this comes together in a short time, the costs are huge and the care for a group of people becomes really priceless. 50PLUS therefore welcomes the measures to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs, such as the maximization of the own contribution for medicines and the introduction of the subscription rate in the Wmo, the legislative amendment we are debating today. We do wonder whether the proposed measures are sufficient. In the explanatory memorandum to this amendment, the study of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that 9% of the people who pay their own contribution come into the financial problems. Is the Minister sure that these people are no longer in financial trouble because of the accumulation of care costs, or is more needed? Mr. Chairman. The gap between the Wmo's contribution and the Wlz is very large as a result of the introduction of the subscription rate. Does the Minister intend to adjust the Wlz's own contribution scheme in the long term? Can we expect a legislative change in this area, too? And how will the Minister prevent people who want to be excluded from the Wlz because of the possible financial incentive? The municipalities have indicated several times that the introduction of the subscription rate is not an appropriate measure. At present, there is little support for a legislative change that they must implement. They fear higher costs due to suction and the consequences of the growing gap between the own contribution in the Wmo and the Wlz. 50PLUS believes that lack of support can cause major problems. Municipalities have to make a legislative change that they don't support. What does the Minister think about this? Mr. Chairman. The government and the municipalities are very important, but most important are the people at home who need care and support. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the discussion between the government and the municipalities should never lead to people not receiving the care and support they need. The Central Plan Bureau has calculated that the introduction of the subscription rate will cost a structural cost of 190 million euros. 145 million is added to the Municipal Fund. A deal has been made about other millions. Some municipalities are already struggling with the current budget and several parties are concerned that the costs will increase further. The question is, therefore, whether the proposed compensation is sufficient. Can the Minister guarantee today, perhaps at a later date, but that is what we hear in such a way that municipalities will be compensated if the WMO expenditure estimated by the CPB is exceeded? The answer to this question is for 50PLUS an important part in supporting or not supporting this law. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the subscription rate should not lead to any change in the supply of care, nor should it lead to the withdrawal of support which should be covered by the subscription rate as far as 50PLUS is concerned. It should be avoided that municipalities shift customised services to non-sustainable general services in order to circumvent the subscription rate. Will the Minister consider the subscription rate for guidance, daily use and respite care, whether offered as a custom or as a general provision? Can the Minister elaborate on this in his reply? Research carried out by Alzheimer's Netherlands shows that three out of ten carers questioned are not aware of the new rate; some colleagues have already mentioned it. The Ombudsman has also expressed his concerns about this. Is the Minister prepared to appeal to the CAK and the municipalities to improve the provision of information for WMO users? What initiatives does the Minister himself take to inform people about their rights in the Wmo under the new subscription rate? Finally, Mr President. I would like to thank Mrs Agema for the attention she has drawn to this, because in the past the CAK, the body that determines the contribution and collects the money for the municipalities, has had many problems. We all know the recent example of a 93-year-old woman who suddenly had to pay back €20,000 because she had paid too low a contribution for years. A few weeks ago, the CAK was attacked by the Dutch Healthcare Authority, because it does not have its financial administration and internal processes in order. Eventually the implementation becomes simpler and even cheaper, but the main question and also a concern of 50PLUS is: can the CAK carry this out in time and correctly? How is the Chamber involved in this process? Can the Minister explain how the current rate is currently being collected? In the explanatory statement, we read that the introduction of the subscription rate as of 1 January 2020 is not only about the rate but also about the periods, so instead of thirteen times four weeks to a monthly contribution, it requires an adjustment of the ICT landscape. The implementation time is 18 months according to the explanatory memorandum. Am I to understand that the CAK will not be fully ready in time? What about the construction of the new ICT landscape? Unfortunately, we know many examples of failing ICT systems within the government. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u159	Thank you very much. I note that Members have many questions about this bill. I also note that we were able to schedule a short time for this debate today. Those days are almost over, too. I therefore propose that this debate continue at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u160	I would like to thank the Minister very much and wish him every success in his further preparation.
