ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the Authorisation Act establishing Invest-NL. Welcome to the Minister of EZK and the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u2	The first speaker to speak is Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we are finally talking about the creation of Invest-NL through an authorisation law. We have been living for more than ten years after the financial crisis and for almost ten years now there has been a discussion in the Netherlands about whether we should have a type of instrument or vehicle, a facility, which can invest risk in activities that are useful for society and can also be economically profitable, but which are not funded by the market. It is therefore a good thing that, after more than ten years, we can finally make a decision on the basis of a concrete legislative proposal. However, I do have some questions about the proposal before us. We have had discussions on this before, but I would like to make it clear at the outset that my party was in favour, is and remains of what we call a 'green investment bank'. Invest-NL has a number of elements in it that are close to that. I appreciate that. However, I would like to focus on six aspects: the vision, the focus, the prevention of a collection bin, financing risks, responsible business and accountability by Invest-NL itself. Directors like to talk in cubes; I thought, "I'm gonna do that sometime." I'm gonna walk past the six blocks. First of all, the vision. What is the vision behind Invest-NL? I've already referred to history. In the first place, this idea came up at an economic and financial difficult time. Luckily, that time is behind us. This raises the question of how to set up this instrument at a time that has much more to offer in terms of funding possibilities than when we started this discussion. I have to say that this question came to my attention when I saw last week in Het Financieele Dagblad the news that we are setting another record where it concerns the amount of capital that Dutch companies put into buying up their own shares. That was EUR 17 billion last year. What's the motive for that? There are not enough attractive other investments. That says something: 17 billion. We are therefore at a level comparable to the level before the financial crisis eleven years ago. I will come back to this later, but this raises the question whether Invest-NL is going to become an additional instrument. How, then, do you set this up in a market where on the one hand there seems to be more and more capital available, but there is apparently also a shortage of investment opportunities with an attractive return, so that the large companies in particular choose to buy up their own shares? Therefore, the question to both rulers as to their views on the location of this instrument as part of the approach they are working on in three areas. This has to do with the question of the role of Invest-NL in solving a number of major societal issues. For my party, the approach to energy and climate transition is at the forefront of this. From the climate tables, there has often been talk of what could be done by Invest-NL in the coming years. The Minister also pointed this out and we did so from the Chamber. But what is Invest-NL's place in that wider range of instruments in that field? I also ask this question to the Minister of Finance when it comes to the question of the location of Invest-NL in the broad range of innovation policy. There too, we have many instruments. These are partly fiscal, for which he and his ministry are responsible, but in part also more specific, where the responsibility lies with Economic Affairs. But what is the additional role of Invest-NL in that spectrum? Finally, it is also a question of... The Secretary of State is not here and unfortunately I could not attend the general consultation because of my role as a formatter in Groningen. It is more about the specific question of where the gaps are in the financing possibilities for Dutch companies, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. Invest-NL also has an additional role to play there. I would like to hear on all three points the vision from which this cabinet looks at the instrument or the Invest-NL facility. My second block is about focus. In the history of formation, much has already been discussed about what the task should be for Invest-NL. Compared to previous plans, the width in which people wanted to be active has been somewhat reduced. I think it is wise that more time should be taken for the international branch and that at the moment we are only talking about what is happening in the Netherlands and that we are only discussing 1.7 billion out of 2.5 billion today. I'll look at literature in this field. If you, as a government, put such a vehicle on the market because the market fails in a number of ways................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have already referred to the really good work, I think, in this area of Mariana Mazzucato. She has written a book "The Entrepreneurial State," The Entrepreneurial State, in which she has analysed well where government interventions in the field of innovation have been successful in recent decades. Then you can see that a lot of innovations, including market innovations, can arise if the government itself carries out a lot of activities on an important issue. Market players will be given new demand, but can also be helped to scale up new technological solutions before they are actually put on the market. When I look at the thematic content, I find myself a little worried; let me put it this way: a lot is mentioned in the wide range of what you could do about innovation. But I see that the Dutch government's agenda is focused on a number of major transitions. These are mentioned in the coalition agreement, which was often pointed out by the government parties. Above all, I see the climate and energy transition again at number one. This is something that we are going to take up widely as a society in the coming years: government, businesses and citizens. Everyone has to go to jail, invest and need cost reductions and new technological solutions, so there's going to be a lot of demand. But these technological solutions must have a chance to prove themselves. There is often a gap there, and we know this from all kinds of discussions about lending. There really is a specific and in my view the most important added value of Invest-NL. I also think it would be wise to look primarily at this area in the early stages of Invest-NL. That's the fastest you can do, I think, to get some results and learn before you switch to all kinds of other branches of sport, whether it's e-health, nanotechnology or photonics. All these interesting technologies are there, and I see them, but the government and all kinds of other stakeholders are not very widely active in that area right now. Then that type of investment you're going to do is much more risky, I think, than in the field of energy and climate transition. My advice to the government would therefore also be to ask the directors to strongly advise Invest-NL to focus in the early stages on providing risky investments in the broad field of energy and climate transition. I think it is very good that it is explicitly said that fossil investment is explicitly excluded. I hope that both leaders will repeat this in the debate, because it is part of the legal process and makes sense in the future. That is a very important point. I also saw that one of my colleagues wants to incorporate this into the law even per amendment. I think it is enough that it is said, but that always raises the question of how to deal with the border cases. For example, I have to think of an investment in blue hydrogen. Then you create hydrogen with fossil energy, capture the CO2 and store it. But how do you define that? Is that a fossil investment or not? Is it or is it not eligible for Invest-NL? I would like to hear an answer from the rulers. Perhaps that will also play a role in the assessment of Mr Futselaar's amendment. That is a question that concerns me, but I understand very well that the initial ambition is that really classic fossil investments are not funded through Invest-NL. Then I go to my third block: avoid a collection bin. That is a bit in line with my earlier plea that it is very important to focus. I see in the way Invest-NL has now been set up some risks which will make it a collection bin after all. When I look at what the Cabinet means by additionality, I read in the explanatory statement that the main market failure lies in the shortage of capital for capital-intensive, high-risk investments in the early phase, i.e. the seed and start-up phase of companies, and in the later stage of venture capital specifically for scale-ups. That's where the market failure is at the moment. How does the Invest-NL cabinet achieve that that is really the main area in which the investments are to take place? After all, Mission creep always threatens, but also the chance is great and then I refer to another piece that this morning was written in De Financieele Dagblad, that you are getting more and more into the water of existing market players who provide all kinds of risky capital. In this context, I also think it is important to say something about DVI. We have talked about this in the past. This is another public sector instrument providing capital and creating a kind of leverage effect. There has been the necessary work in the past on the way in which that DVI instrument has been created. That was not tendered in the market but actually put together at the request of the government with a construction that runs through Luxembourg. With constructions through Luxembourg, my party is never so happy. In the course of DVI's history, I have seen that, at some point in the market, there were signs that they were quite willing to take over that vehicle from the government. That was also discussed, because the government seemed to be open to it. I hear from those market players that taking over DVI should not be addressed in those talks, but only taking an interest in DVI. It is now being published again that there would be no interest from the market. Based on the information I'm getting, that's not true. I would like to hear a more detailed explanation of that. However, I see that DVI is now placed under Invest-NL. So here you are talking about a vehicle that is of interest in the market. This brings you to Invest-Nederland, which must be additional, but with that you put the additionality back under pressure. I think that's a risk. Why is that so done? There's no other way? Can not an attempt be made to leave that to the market, so that Invest-NL can concentrate on its main task? I'll put that under the heading: prevent you from getting into a collection bin and the board of directors and fund managers trying to keep too many different balls high and lose sight of their main mission a little bit. Then I get to my fourth block. Unfortunately, I am going a little slower than the time I have taken, but the beauty of dealing with a legislative proposal is that as a Member of Parliament you do not actually have a limit on your speaking time; I am not trying to take advantage of that, Mr President. I just wanted to talk about the financial risks. We want risky investment with this instrument. Otherwise, we can't really control those start-ups and those scale-ups. At the same time, it's a revolving fund, so there has to be a return. This is very important for the Minister of Finance, because it must continue to comply with the rules so that it does not count in the EMU balance. We also discussed this in the previous debate, the AO. I am very pleased that my motion, which was adopted at the time, which called for each investment to be assessed individually and not to be assessed on the basis of compliance with a certain target yield, has been incorporated into the legislative proposal. At the same time, there is a target return. I also welcome the fact that it is said that in the beginning the target yield should be lower and only if it all works properly can you put it a little higher. But there's still a certain tension. How much risk can you take? How much room is there to do that? I do not know whether the Minister of Finance has a band within which he thinks it is acceptable that risks may be taken that may put some pressure on revolver, because it may be that he will get into trouble. I would like to hear from both rulers how much space there is actually to take risks. With regard to the way in which this standard yield is determined, I was wondering which aspects are taken into account. Are we simply looking at cyclical developments? What's it doing in the market? So you're gonna be a certain percentage of that? Can it be said what aspects will be weighed by the Invest-NL Board when determining the standard return? I would also be very grateful if the Chamber could be briefed on this. I have a specific question about the other side of investment risks. Is there also a lower level of investment that can be provided by Invest-NL? We're talking about start-ups. These are often small businesses, and they are relatively small amounts of money that are relatively hard to work on. Is there a lower limit or does it apply: anything goes? And could very small amounts possibly also be provided? Then I come to my fifth block, corporate responsibility. I've had some experience with that in my previous working life. Oh, Mr Stoffer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u4	Before you go to the next block, there is an interruption by Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u5	It's a nice speech from GroenLinks, but I'm actually curious about what GroenLinks thinks. Can the risk of rebellion be enormous, so great that there is a very high chance that that money will not be repaid and not come back? How do you look at that yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u6	I can give two answers to that. If we had gotten what we wanted, we would have had a less restrictive budgetary policy. I would have liked to take more risks, too. But this bill was made by a coalition operating within a certain budgetary framework. Within that budgetary framework, I understand why this agreement was made. At the same time, the report of the Court of Auditors on existing revolving funds shows that the degree of revolver over the duration of such a fund can very much fluctuate. If I'm being honest, I'm not exactly sure how that's judged from either the Treasury or Brussels. Does every year have to have a complete picture? Are you allowed to be in the minus and for how long can you stand in the minus? So how much room is there to really invest risky? That's not very clear to me. Maybe it's not wise to say all that publicly either. I'll leave that to the rulers. But my commitment is that you have to take a lot of risks, because you have to be additional. If the risks are too small, they are so small that the market can do so. Then the whole instrument doesn't make any sense. So I cannot give you a number, but I share with you that it is necessary to take significant risks, where the chance of return really has to be present in the future. But that's something you have to assess on a project-by-project basis. At the same time, they are new technologies with many risks and this leads to failures in any case. That's also important, because that's what you need to learn from again. It also sometimes leads to the loss of those investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u7	That was enough for Mr Stoffer, thank you very much. Please continue with your speech, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u8	Yes. I think I was just about to switch to my fifth block on corporate responsibility. I have to say that I have been active in this in my previous life. I noticed that quite a lot of agreements have been made at UN level, at OECD level and even at national level on what to meet when it comes to responsible business. But the knowledge about this is rather low in companies; even in very large companies that have a staff working on it, it doesn't last. For the target group of Invest-NL, SMEs, there is much less knowledge. I appreciate the fact that the text of the pleading states that the CSR criteria must be the best performing standards. That ambition is absolutely beautiful, but it only makes sense when the foundation is in order, if companies that get that investment from Invest-NL also know what the guidelines are at the moment that you should stick to. That is why I have tabled an amendment in which I try to arrange that the basis is at least regulated via AMvB, and on top of that it can be pushed forward in time. There's got to be that space, and I want to give it to you. I think it is important for everyone that the CSR criteria are better anchored than is currently the case in the law. Finally, the accountability of Invest-NL itself. I have already referred to the investigation carried out by the General Court of Auditors on the revolving funds. The popularity of this has grown. You have more than twenty at a rich level, but at provincial and even local level you see revolving funds. I found it difficult to see how little structure there is in the way of accountability for revolving funds, and also how little knowledge exchange there is between the managers of those revolving funds. I also found the reaction of the cabinet to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors rather disappointing, because it was pointed out that there was little real recognition of these recommendations. I think it is important that lessons are learned from this, especially when it comes to the way Invest-NL is accountable. This must be done in the annual report. A number of things have already been written down about this and that must certainly be done well. I also think it is important that there is clarity about, for example, the duration of Invest-NL. How long are we going to let this vehicle exist and when is it a success? Must it have had twice the orbit, or three times the orbit? I think there is one fund that has been reached at the moment, but most of the revolving funds are still so young that it has not yet been achieved. But how long are you gonna go through with it? Shouldn't you make an appointment about that? What I would also like, especially in the early years, is that we are not only informed in an annual report about how Invest-NL is doing. A number of important developments may occur, for example in the agreements concluded by Invest-NL. If any significant changes were to be made to this, or indeed, I mentioned the discussion on the return of standards when important choices were made, I would consider it important that we, as the Chamber, should be informed in the interim; not only on the basis of an annual report. I would also like to make that request. I think I'm almost there now. I would like to ask another question about the procedure, which has to do with the role of the European Commission in this, the state aid debate. There's a conversation going on about that, but there's no outcome yet. We are already dealing with the bill here, and at the rate we are currently using it will probably soon arrive in the First Chamber. But does the First Chamber agree if the European Commission is not yet clear on this point? How's that gonna run in time? Has there been a precedent? I think it is important to keep pace, but we need to know whether what we are going to do is in line with the Brussels interpretation of whether or not there is acceptable state aid here. Finally, I am very pleased that this is not going to be a one-sided discussion of men, because I saw the list of speakers and I saw the rulers. I also hope, not only with regard to corporate social responsibility and the energy and climate transition, that Invest-NL can contribute to promoting gender equality in the financial sector. I wish the CEO of Invest-NL I see him sitting there, a team that is very diverse, but also very expert. It is a very complicated task that Invest-NL is going to have. I love sailing and there are sailing ships now that go so fast that they go on wings over the waves, but that is very risky. All you have to do is make the wrong move and you go with the point in the wave and bam, you're there. If this Invest-NL is to work, be additional and achieve all its goals, it must be able, dare and want to sail very sharply. I wish them every success in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u9	Thank you. Mr Futselaar of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is not overwhelmed to speak of a historic bill that is before us. You can say that in Dutch politics the mantra of the retiring government has ruled for decades. Then suddenly a proposal for an investment and development bank is under the care of a minister of the VVD. While industrial policy for a long time was almost a dirty word in the Dutch political debates, even during the crisis that we just had, you can now see official documents that are full of them. The SP welcomes that. The SP welcomes this proposal. It is almost ten years since one of my predecessors advocated a new national investment bank. A bank that would invest not only in small and medium-sized enterprises, but also in other projects of great social importance. In the proposal now before us, these two objectives seem to receive attention. Well, it's not called a "national investment bank," I understand, because that sounds socialist, but when we get our bank, we best give the minister the name, even if it's a bit silly. Mr. Chairman. A significant proportion of SMEs in the Netherlands, in particular, are still struggling to obtain funding. It can be said that the economic crisis is over, but that at least some of the companies still feel the credit crisis. That is a form of market failure and it is logical that we should intervene. Of course, it would have made more sense to take the decision on this bank ten years earlier, because during crisis time it could be even more useful. But let us now ensure that we have instruments for the future. I would like to stress that, despite our enthusiasm, we believe that a number of improvements are possible. We do see an important role of Invest-NL in the sustainability statement we have. I am thinking just of the housing corporations that have huge sustainability statements but also have to pay the landlord's tax. Invest-NL may be able to ensure a more sustainable housing stock. The proposal is not ideal. For example, a director is appointed with a salary well above the beaming standard. This is a company that will be 100% owned by the government and we have not set this standard for nothing. We do not think that there should be an exhibitionist self-enrichment, as a former Prime Minister once said. We have tabled an amendment to include it in the WNT. In addition, during the first written examination of this bill, my group and several others noted that the tasks of Invest-NL will be specified in an agreement between the two ministers and the Executive Board of Invest-NL, including the societal goals to be assigned to. The law also allows this to be delegated through an AMvB. We value the supervisory role of the Chamber and therefore propose that the possibility of doing so through an AMvB be converted into an obligation, so that there are not, for example, any new goals at Invest-NL in a new government agreement without the Chamber being able to rule on them. Another issue for the control that we consider to be also in an AMvB with a front, is the creation of new subsidiaries. According to the current proposal, the Board of Invest-NL can do so without hindrance. The General Court has also said in this way that it is difficult to keep an overview of these types of organisations, specifically Invest-NL. We share that criticism. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy stated in his written answer to our questions that the freedom in the bill benefits the flexibility of Invest-NL. We believe that a veil and an AMvB is better and that there is already sufficient flexibility. You can also wait for it to pass the Chamber before you start a subsidiary. The economy is far-reachingly globalised and this also has consequences for Invest-NL. There will also be investments used for activities abroad. We have two points of attention here. First of all, Invest-NL receives an investment fund for investment funds, the Dutch Venture Initiative, under its wing. In the past, it has shown that this fund has invested a significant part of its money in funds that invest in other countries. As far as we are concerned, this cannot be the ultimate intention of Invest-NL. We would like to see the condition that investments are made only in the company or projects that are primarily for the benefit of the Netherlands. Of course, they can be used to trade across national borders, but the economic effects, at least the bulk of them, must benefit in the Netherlands. Otherwise, we are so to speak, financing the neighbours. It is also important for companies to apply the internationally applicable standards for corporate social responsibility. We are talking about the OECD directive on multinational companies in this area. I have an amendment to that effect. I have seen that Mr Van der Lee has that, and I will see if that can be combined. I'm sure we'll figure it out. Finally. My predecessor has repeatedly stressed the importance of investing in SMEs in the handling of this legislative proposal. We cannot stress enough how much this is needed. You will find in practice that when SMEs come to the bank for a loan, it is purely to assess whether that loan is good for a bank that costs so much that the bank is not even going to deal with it anymore, because they don't think it is worth it. That's extremely frustrating. The SP believes that a supermarket and a cleaning company in a small village are also important. We are pleased that this option remains open in Invest-NL, but we would like to know how it will work in practice. We want to see this in the financing monitor that we are sent annually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u11	Thank you. I still see an interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u12	A small correction of a household nature. It's Invest indent NL. You always say point NL and then it's like it's a website.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u13	I like being corrected. It is my own fault, but of course it is also due to the rather absurd name. The National Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u14	Thank you. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the bill that allows the creation of Invest-NL. Mr Futselaar said it: an historic moment. The proposal lays down the framework conditions for what this institution should and should not do with the EUR 1.7 billion that it receives from us as the State for national activities, in addition to the EUR 800 million that will come later for international activities. In the election programme, the CDA advocated the creation of a development bank for technology, innovation and sustainability. A bank that, on the one hand, can act as a driver and provider of capital for SMEs and, on the other hand, can raise money in the capital market for the climate and energy transition, for example for the isolation of houses or the construction of heat roundabouts such as here in South Holland. Investment which is highly socially desirable, but which often does not come off the ground without public support, and in which a public-private partnership can help to drive change. For example, the CDA Invest-NL or whatever the bank or institution is called, meant and conceived. That thought also arose, because we in the Netherlands have a good subsidy instrument for renewable energy: the SDE+ scheme, the subsidy for renewable energy. On the other hand, there was no additional revolver in financing for sustainable development. We also think that the Dutch Financing Company for Developing Countries, better known as the FMO, is a good example. It is a bank that has made high-risk investments in high-risk countries with own funds received by the government and has thereby increased its own capital. We think this is a good performance and a sustainable way to achieve goals. And that's the stewardship the CDA stands for. We also want such a bank in addition to subsidies, so that in the coming years we can move forward on energy and climate transition in a financially sustainable way. If we do this right and coordinate our policy instruments properly, we can manage our public resources efficiently. That seems to us an attractive perspective. The government's co-financing through the bank reflects long-term confidence in the energy and climate transition. For long-term developments, you can also use long-term write-offs where possible and release investments that would not receive funding in the regular market. By the way, the government has also helped the fossil industry through Energy Management Netherlands or EBN. Can the Ministers explain to what extent they have looked at EBN as a co-financer of sustainable developments? What are the Ministers' views on the global instruments to achieve parallel energy and climate transition developments? How can we control them as representatives of the people so that the right euros are used in the right place and our goals are achieved? Are the Ministers prepared to report on this in its entirety? We may be considering a motion on that. Mr. Chairman. In this legislative proposal, the CDA considers the balance sheet to be very important, so that, for example, an investment domain such as sustainability is not replaced by one of the other investment domains in the policy agreement. This agreement, with goals and sub-objectives, has been formulated quite long and in such a general way that almost every social theme can get a place in it. If that focus is not too broad, the CDA wonders. Now it seems like everything you do with Invest-NL is always right. I'd like a response. The CDA welcomes the proposal to set up Invest-NL, with a dash, but is concerned about its implementation and impact. We have clustered our questions and comments in three blocks. Why are we doing this and who are we doing this for? What is the direction, the governance, organised? We also have a number of practical questions. Why are we doing this and who are we doing this for? Earlier, I noted that if it were up to the CDA, the focus of Invest-NL on meeting climate goals and energy transition should be on giving opportunities to SMEs and start-ups. This bill makes Invest-NL's mission much broader, as apart from sustainability, Invest-NL focuses on agriculture and food, economy, digitisation and care. These five investment domains are laid down in a policy agreement, applicable until 31 December 2022, after which tacit renewal may follow, first for a period of four years, then for a period of seven years each. What's with the silent extension? Isn't it better to periodically, at fixed times, take stock of the situation and then extend the option or not? We read that for the interim amendment or update of the agreement, the parties enter into consultation and agreement within set deadlines. Who are these parties, we ask the ministers through the President. In response to actual questions from the CDA, ministers wrote that the five chosen investment domains are not static, but that adjustment is possible at the time the investment policy is reviewed. For this purpose, a new inventory will be carried out at the policy department. When are these recalibrated moments? Does Parliament also have a role in this, or is it the ministries that make these choices? In its opinion, the Council of State warns against lack of focus, blurring the demarcation and a lack of clarity on the results of Invest-NL. The CDA shares that concern. How will we prevent 95% of Invest-NL's budget from going to one of the targets and only 5% to the rest? Who makes those choices and who guards the balance? Then I have a question about the development branch of Invest-NL. It will help companies find other forms of funding, such as from European funds, such as the European Fund for Strategic Investments, the EFSI. Does this mean that the accumulation of various national and international funding is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u16	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u17	On the previous point, on the opinion of the Council of State. It does indeed quite rightly warn that it lacks a bit of focus. I said something about that, too. That is also in a wording in the legal text, which the CDA had also asked a question about in the written procedure, namely that it should be companies that contribute to social transition exercises or the Dutch economy. I have tabled an amendment to replace that word 'or' with 'and' because any company can actually claim that it contributes to the Dutch economy and is therefore eligible for Invest-NL. Does the CDA share GroenLinks' desire to tighten up the legal text on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u18	I would like to have the Minister's answer to the question as to whether we need to tighten up the legislative text now. I think that on the one hand we should have room to make that assessment when it comes to connection with that social mission and the economic aspect. I agree with Mr Van der Lee on this point, or in fact I do not agree with him. You have to give space, but on the other hand, it has to be clear how we're going to ensure that focus afterwards. That is what I want to know from the ministers, because they will not be there in a moment; it is Invest-NL that is going to make these choices and then try to weigh up all kinds of things. I would perhaps like to come back to Mr Van der Lee's question on 'or' and 'and' in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u19	That was enough for Mr. Van der Lee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u20	Yes. Then I have a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u21	A second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u22	It is also about focus, but with respect to the type of companies. In my amendment, which turns that "or" into "and," I also indicated that I think it is important that there should be an upper limit to the size of a company eligible for a risky investment by Invest-NL. After all, market failure affects companies such as start-ups and scale-ups. I just told you that these big companies put 17 billion into buying their own shares. They have resources for investment. Does the CDA share that it is also worth considering setting a limit to the size of the company that relies on Invest-NL's risk capital investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u23	I am not directly in favour of an upper limit, but I do agree that we are doing this. I shall come back to that later: what are we doing this for? For projects which do not normally come off the ground. As CDA, we have said that these are at least SMEs and start-ups, mainly start-ups and SMEs that have no equity or very small equity and have no collateral and therefore make risky investments. But you can also think of large companies that do long-term write-offs. There's a risk of that, too. I am therefore cautious and reluctant to set an explicit upper limit on this. But I do stress the line or the spirit that this fund is not there to be eaten as a trap by large companies, if that is what Mr Van der Lee means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u24	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u25	Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that Invest-NL should be there for the energy transition and for the Dutch business community, whose SMEs are the foundation and the standard for us as well. The CDA welcomes the attention given in the legislative proposal to SMEs, for which we strongly advocated, and the return of start-ups and scale-ups in the latest version of the bill. Invest-NL shouldn't just be there for him, Mr. Van der Lee, the big guys who will easily find the pigeon of Invest-NL. Any entrepreneur with a good idea that contributes to Invest-NL's mission must have a fair chance as far as we are concerned. For this reason, last year the CDA together with the VVD tabled a motion calling for more real opportunities for SMEs to take advantage of Invest-NL's opportunities. That motion received broad support and got a place in the bill. That's good; now we have the effect. In the actual questions about the bill, the CDA has asked many questions about how SMEs and Invest-NL will soon find each other and be able to make maximum use of each other. The latest Financing Monitor shows that two thirds of SMEs are not familiar with the contact points for access to finance. What else is the Minister, knowing this, going to do to get Invest-NL among SMEs, so that we achieve the right entrepreneurs and initiatives with that 1.7 billion? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of how we are going to organise Invest-NL's cooperation with the regional development companies in order to approach SMEs at a low threshold and, two, also to enable relatively small investments of less than EUR 5 million. I know that the upper limit for these ROMs is 5 million. Can the Minister clearly confirm and underline this, and can he indicate how this will work out in practice? Then we come to the heading of steering and governance. The direction of Invest-NL is complicated. This is also written by the Council of State and the General Court, which are critical of how this governance is organised. Invest-NL moves away from the government as a private legal entity with public tasks and acquires a shareholder relationship with Finance and a policy agreement with EZK. So there's a relationship with two ministries. This brings with it the risk of double control and the question of who is responsible and accountable for what and at what time. Will the Ministers be able to answer that question again? Then the role of us as the Chamber of Auditors of the government. On the one hand, the Chamber of Ministers wishes to receive sound accountability over Invest-NL and to be able to debate it with ministers. On the other hand, it does not want to have to look over the shoulders of the chairman of the board and does not want to determine the investment policy weekly with a laundry list of motions. How can we exercise our control and control over that 1.7 billion euro public money and at the same time avoid interfering as a Chamber with each individual investment? In other words, how do we ensure Parliament's control, without making Invest-NL a political playball every day? Mr. Chairman. In this parliamentary audit, the General Court of Auditors plays an important role for us as a Chamber, inter alia by checking whether public funds have been used effectively and effectively. In its response to the bill, the General Court states, among other things, that the design and design of Invest-NL is partly out of sight of the States General. This is particularly true in the case of the creation of subsidiaries, in the case of the partnership with the Financing Society for Developing Countries, in the case of the FMO, which actually applies to the international component of the agreement to be concluded shortly and to the tasks to be invested in the General Measure of Management. Would the ministers like to reflect on this? The CDA considers sound parliamentary control of Invest-NL to be very important. That is why we are tabling an amendment in which we want to deal with three issues. The first is that the General Court will have a formal role in Invest-NL as an external supervisor by providing Parliament with the right information in good time. The second is that the Lower House receives an annual report from Invest-NL. Thirdly, the Lower House should receive an appreciation from the Cabinet on whether or not the objectives of Invest-NL have been met before discharge is given to the Board of Directors. We would like to receive a response not only from the Minister, but also from the General Court of Auditors. To this end, I make a request through the President. Finally, Mr President. When did the establishment of Invest-NL succeed? How do we measure success? At what time can we determine that? A first evaluation was not foreseen until three years after the law came into force. A report on effectiveness, efficiency and impact will receive Parliament only once every seven years. What's with these deadlines? Where are our options to intervene sooner if we have to? Then I'll come to the third cup, Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a number of questions on various practical issues. In the Netherlands there are already many so-called revolving funds. Here's a selection of these: the Dutch Venture Initiative, Innovation Credit, Qredits, ROM, Seed Capital, Smart Industry Fieldlabs, Early Phase Financing, the National Green Fund and more. Almost all of these funds share their goals with Invest-NL: innovation technology, sustainability and SMEs. What are the Ministers' views on the idea of placing all these funds in Invest-NL, so that one window for entrepreneurs is created? This can create economies of scale. In addition, overlap and competition are avoided. There will also be administrative simplification. In the case of subsidies, there is a horizontal clause. It indicates that a law or rule ceases to exist after five years, unless its duration is extended. Is it also possible for Invest-NL, a revolving fund that also involves the payment of funds, to agree such horizontal provisions? In it it can be weighed as to whether it is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u26	I share Mr Amhaouch's concern about the large field with flowering flowers of revolving funds. You can rightly ask yourself whether all this is so terribly effective, because every revolver fund has its own management organisation. But there is, of course, a dilemma here, because a lot of these revolving funds have different shareholders. There are a lot of provincial funds. How does Mr Amhaouch see it when all this is placed under Invest-NL? Should there be shareholders of the local authorities instead of just a state shareholder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u27	I didn't hear that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u28	The Empire is a shareholder. Should the co-governments that financed the other revolving funds become co-shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u29	That could always be an option. Our comment about all these revolver funds came about after we were recently updated in a technical briefing on the revolving funds. If you do dig in there, you'll see there's a lot of them. Each revolver fund is controlled in a different way. Our question is whether this consideration has been made very well. We'll put them down here for the two ministers. How do they see this? Why didn't we do this? Why should we perhaps be able to consider that for the future? That's what we'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u30	Mr Moorlag, in second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u31	I think it is an interesting idea in itself, but we must be careful that we are going to say something here and that we are going to sacrifice our fellow governments in it. I think it is legitimate to ask both rulers to see if in that garden with blooming flowers a little more can be brought into order by weeding a little bit and shoveling a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u32	Mr Moorlag talks about flowers, and for us the question is whether there will be a moment when you will cut a tree so that it can grow nicely again. Are we at that tipping point now, including with Invest-NL? Has it been considered? At least I assume that this is a moment when the ministers have made that consideration: why did we do this or not? I look forward with Mr Moorlag and the other fellow speakers to seeing how we can give our hands and feet to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u33	I do not think you were at the end of your speech, so proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u34	I was at the last paragraph, Mr. Chairman. As a supervisor, the Supervisory Board is given an important role in the activities of Invest-NL. Can the Ministers tell us what this board of Commissioners is going to look like? How do we ensure the diversity of knowledge and expertise in the composition of the Supervisory Board, as Mr Van der Lee pointed out, so that the public sector as well as entrepreneurship, business and funding are well secured? That was my first input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Futselaar, "the Futs," as I always call him, has already mentioned the national investment bank. If it were up to us, there would also be a national savings bank, also supported by the Socialist Party. This could have taken a lot less of this, because we have been asking for this for a long time: to securely collect money from citizens at real interest rates and to help SMEs where possible. We would also like to see fully our national Royal Aviation Company and also the national energy company. That is true of everything that has to do with primary necessities of life; heat is a primary need for life. Things like energy should just be in national hands. I think that now that KLM has already been bought back in part, the rest will follow. It's often a long time before you get right, but it's all gonna come. But for the time being we are still working on this, with Invest-NL. This is a very difficult debate for me. Why? The objective is to contribute to the financing and realisation of corporate social transition declarations and to provide access to entrepreneurial finance. In principle, no one can oppose that. Neither do we. But then you're gonna see what the money's all used for, including equity. People want to focus on facilitating the risky activities of companies and that's all not so bad, but then you get it: the transition, the sustainability and then it's starting to get nasty; then it's about renewable energy and climate change, which man has virtually no influence on. I don't want to say that we don't have any influence on that, but we almost don't. There are so many billions on the contrary, which often do not achieve what the goal is. We'll all find out when it's too late. But on the other hand, there is the promotion of exports and foreign investment, and the support of Dutch companies in the international marketing of their products. These are all things that we are very much in favour of. Only we would have preferred that through another national bank and not through this one. So it's very difficult. I must also honestly say that I normally know what I am going to advise the group when I stand here during every debate I have had here over the last few years, but that is very difficult now. I would also like to conclave on this after this debate with other spokesmen of our group, because we are simply fatal against certain transitions for which funding is provided. I refer, for example, to energy against so-called climate change. That's what it says literally. On the other hand, our citizens and entrepreneurs are dealing with transitions. If we can't stop that from happening with a few parties, you're gonna have to act for a second. That's where I'm at. I must therefore advise my group to be for or against this for the second time. There's gonna be a lot of water flowing through the Meuse before we get out of there. We have to figure it out by Tuesday at the latest, but I can't make a statement today. I assume there is already a majority, because that is often the case. It is already being cooked up: for what is being put forward, there is often a majority and then we are still talking a little bit about bacon and beans. But that doesn't matter, because we're used to it. Sometimes we get something done, which makes us very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u37	Before you continue an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u38	That's what I expected, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u39	That's nice; that glass ball still works. Everything here would be for bacon and beans and Mr Graus does not find it so interesting. But he just said himself that he's always standing here, except tonight, knowing in advance what he's going to advise his group. Every debate therefore does not matter to Mr Graus, because he knows what he advises his group regardless of the debate. He is now blaming the Chamber for a play, because there would already be a majority and it has all been set up, ignoring the general consultation and the hearings that have been held. But then maybe he should think about his own position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u40	Those are always these weird interruptions from D66, which you can't do anything with either. They start immediately with something that is factually incorrect. I didn't say everything was for bacon and beans. I've said it happens all the time. You'll have to check the Acts immediately. That's where it starts. So you're putting me in the wrong corner right away. Besides, you're just saying that to someone who's achieved a lot. I have really achieved a lot, especially for someone from a group like the PVV; a lot. Then it is really not just about animals, but also about aviation and SMEs. Let me give you an example. The SME test comes from me. A historic breakthrough, according to SME-Netherlands, comes from the PVV-tokkies! So we are achieving a great deal. But often something is pre-arranged here. Well, then you already know there's a majority. I say that I often know whether or not I should advise the group to support something because I have good knowledge of the file, I read it carefully and I hear all the actors in advance. It is precisely because of my expertise, after thirteen years of experience, that I know very well what I can or cannot advise. Now I'm in a split because I just really don't know. There are a lot of things I and my group do not agree with, but a lot of things are very good, for example when it comes to entrepreneurs. That's exactly what I've been explaining. So you should first listen better and not always immediately stand at the interrupt microphone, casually with your hands in the pocket. That's really not funny. You're not listening very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u41	Mr Sjoerdsma has another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u42	Thanks for the review of my listening ability, but I listened very carefully. Mr Graus argued here that he always knew, if he was there in the first term, what and how he would advise his group. By this he says: regardless of the answers of the cabinet and the contributions of the other groups, I knew exactly what I would bring in. That's why it came up. I think it is wrong to then say to these people, and also to other debates, that it would be some kind of play. You just shouldn't do that, Mr. Graus. If you want to talk about performance, I think it is all right, but this does not seem to be the reason for this debate. You may need to talk about this once in your group or in the newspaper; that is also important. But I'd like to talk about the law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u43	You're repeating things I didn't say. It's starting to get exhausting. It's like a tupperware night level here. I have said what I have said; then go and check the Acts. Often games are played here. You can deny what you want, but I've spent more time with this than you have and have never been lied to, cheated and bullied as in the States General. That's my right to say, because I have that right. I've also told you about it on television, on the radio or wherever I went, with examples and everything. That's what I get to find and say. Very often good things happen, for example when it comes to KLM. With Mr Amhaouch, for example, I have a very good cooperation. I work with a lot of colleagues from every group and then we do it well. But I can also say that they are very often stage debates. I'm allowed to find that without you having to respond directly with falsehoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u44	Thank you. Please continue your speech on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u45	So we will decide on Tuesday with the group. Mr. Sjoerdsma mentioned group meetings. That's what we do. The whole group decides. It's about the majority. If you believe the newspapers, it looks like some sort of North Korea to us, but it doesn't. Half plus one: that's the decision of the PVV. It's exactly the way it is with us. There is nowhere as much democracy as there is in our group. I have no further questions. It's all clear. I have been poking around here and there and I understand that it is not going to be possible to ride certain things out of the bill with amendments. So we're not gonna do that. As an SME spokesperson, I would tend to be in favour of it. Our entrepreneurs are in a completely unequal playing field full of false competition, especially from neighbouring countries that have had a kind of national promotional bank for years. That is why I, as SME spokesperson, tend to be here. It is a pity that there is so much in it that other portfolios are affected as well. I also wish everyone a good night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u46	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u47	Mr. Chairman. An institution from which social transition declarations are financed and realised. That sounds wonderful, doesn't it? You can hardly argue with that, can you? The SGP is therefore in favour of the creation of Invest-NL. I think it's a pretty name too, Mr. Futselaar. Valuable initiatives can therefore be taken, initiatives which are not or are difficult to achieve on the market. Perhaps this will make it possible to invest more in, for example, the sustainability of agriculture. At the moment, it seems difficult to obtain funding for this. It would be very nice if Invest-NL could also play a role in this. Perhaps it could also help Mr Graus if this were part of Invest-NL. Invest-NL might also play a role in energy corporations. They can play a major role in the energy transition of the built environment. That may be another downside for Mr. Graus, but that aside. For these energy corporations, capital must be available. They are now often dependent on external financing with high interest rates. Perhaps Invest-NL can play a positive role in this too. Mr. Chairman. An institution from which social transition declarations are financed and realised. Like I said, it sounds nice. But let's take a closer look at the objective of Invest-NL. The objective is: if the market does not provide enough for this, contribute to the financing and realisation of corporate social transition statements, and provide access to corporate finance. That's a very broad description. What exactly are the goals and tasks of Invest-NL? A clear, clear definition of this is very important, but it is difficult to find. The SGP has asked questions about it before, but unfortunately no satisfactory response has been given so far. But I have every hope that two ministers in trade union K will give a very clear answer to this tonight. Certainly, under the supervision of Mr Bos, that should be possible. We're not the only ones pointing this out. The Council of State has also done so. In his report, even the General Court explicitly mentions the ambiguity about the role of Invest-NL. The report also points out that Parliament hardly plays a role in the definition of tasks. Invest-NL acquires an independent character and a certain degree of independence. According to the SGP, that is certainly the right choice. However, it is important that the range within which Invest-NL may act is well defined in advance. How is it ensured that public money used through Invest-NL will not be used for unsustainable investments, tasks that would otherwise be taken up by the market? This has just been pointed out from GroenLinks. The chance is now certainly present, especially now that providing access to corporate finance is an aim of Invest-NL. It is also important that the tasks and powers of Invest-NL are clear. As the explanatory memorandum describes, there are some frameworks within which Invest-NL must act. It also lays down certain standards of conduct which the institution must follow in order to remain within the objectives and tasks. Frameworks and behavioral standards, that sounds a little noncommittal. Wouldn't it be good just to specify that more precisely, especially when we're talking about public money? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second focus, which is the monitoring of Invest-NL and the accountability of Invest-NL. The SGP considers it important that the effects of investments are well monitored. It is also important for the objectives to be clearly defined and clearly formulated. But how is it measured whether and how much social impact an investment has, and on the basis of which it is determined whether the public funds have actually been spent meaningfully? At the moment, it is not yet known how this monitoring will be organised, which is an important point of attention. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. Before you start anything, you need to be clear about what you're getting into. A clear description of tasks is crucial for proper implementation. The SGP therefore considers it very important that this mandate of Invest-NL is clear in advance. In addition, we have the question of the way of accountability and supervision. If these two matters are well settled, Invest-NL can indeed be of great value in terms of the SGP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u48	Thank you. I call Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u49	Mr. Chairman. I read this morning in Het Financieele Dagblad that Invest-NL would have few friends, but when I listen to the spokesmen here, that seems to be not that bad. Mr Graus still has to decide whether he wants to make friends with Invest-NL, but I hear some positive noises. The PvdA also wants to establish a friendship with Invest-NL, at least with the concept. In fact, it was the PvdA that stood at the cradle of that concept in the previous cabinet period. It's been a while, but then you've got something. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA supports the direction that is now being used. Industrial policy has been a contaminated word for decades. It is not really a mature industrial policy, but it is a step in the right direction, namely that risk capital is made available from public funds to achieve a number of social objectives. There is therefore satisfaction with the basic concept at the PvdA. So I could really make my contribution to Groningen short, like: nice work, good law, and now on the beer. But there are still a number of points on which it sheds a little bit and gives some tension. The first is that there is tension between a broad objective versus a narrow objective. At first, I had a tendency to think: shouldn't you make that objective a little more concrete, a little more focused? But over time you see that the urgency of societal challenges changes. The concept arose at the time when there was a huge stagnation in the provision of capital. Investment capital was made available only to a limited extent by the regular financial institutions. That problem has become less urgent. On the other hand, you can see the increasing importance of a number of transition assignments. So the PvdA can live with that it is a broad objective, but there must be focus. Also in the role of the shareholder or of the contractual partner, the PvdA will have to place a real strong emphasis on this transition statement in the coming years. The question to the rulers is whether they share that view. Mr. Chairman. There is also tension between market conformity and additiveness. If Invest-NL were to operate fully on market terms, it would be an unnecessary institution, because those capital needs are served by the regular market. But the practice is that regular financing institutions are very reluctant to provide investment capital for certain projects. I have sometimes said jokingly that bankers are not inclined to tie the skates until they see arensleeps passing by that are spanked with six horses. Going before aren't on the ice, so risk-avoiding they are. But it is precisely in the transition exercise that it is important that risks are taken. In the energy transition, perhaps one of the greatest risks is public policy. In that light, it is simply a good thing that there is a bank that dares to take some more risky positions, thereby also detaching capital from other parties and launching genuinely socially desirable things. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my next point, the tension between financial return and social outcome. Because what is it really about? Is this about getting a little more or less here? I would much prefer that we do not achieve a substantial amount of financial return, but that a great deal of social return is being made because money has been invested in the transition statements, and that these transition statements are actually coming forward, then that we get one percent more or less. My question to the rulers is whether they want to take a good look at it and reflect on it. As we talk about GDP growth, which is just a hard financial figure, in terms of economic growth and prosperity growth, to an ever lesser extent, we are increasingly talking about the concept of "wide prosperity." Shouldn't it be here that you're going to see if Invest-NL is contributing to achieving that broad prosperity? So not only financial returns, but also social returns. The public interest must be at the forefront of this. Would the rulers like to introduce some nuance into that hard return target? Mr. Chairman. My next point is how Invest-NL is going to develop. What kind of identity is it gonna get? Will it be a regular financial institution or will it still be an organisation in which the public interest is well secured? There are two comments on this. First of all, I think it is a public interest that organisations that invest capital in Invest-NL are compliant, that they simply comply with legislation on environmental legislation, social legislation. I think that compliance should be a very tough condition when it comes to lending. My question to the rulers is whether they agree with that. My second point is that corporate social responsibility must also be a tough condition. There are some warm words in all the documents that have been given to the Chamber, but my question to the rulers is whether they want to attach that corporate social responsibility, for example compliance with the OECD guidelines, as a strong condition to Invest-NL's investment policy. Mr. Chairman. In monitoring that identity, it is worth considering whether third parties can also be involved in Invest-NL. I do not mean that they are given formal powers, but rather that they are given an advisory role. These are organisations that are involved in corporate social responsibility. For example, these are social partners or NGOs. My question to the two directors is whether they want to see a form of advisory council in which the incentives from society come that also stimulate Invest-NL to continue to promote the public interest. My question to the rulers is how they look at that. Finally, management and governance. Here is always the dilemma between letting go and wanting to steer as politicians. On the other hand, the tragedy of politicians is sometimes the same tragedy that also affects ornithologists, namely that they know everything about birds but cannot fly themselves. You have to give the organization the space to undertake. I have some doubts about the steering instrument, namely an agreement between the Ministry and Invest-NL. Why was this figure chosen? As you can see, in other public participations, a little more is being directed through a shareholder instruction, I have seen that among other things with the regional development companies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But making a deal? I have some experience with service level agreements within organizations, where employees of organisations start to relate as contract partners. Are you sure that's the right form of control? What do you do if there is a conflict or if the agreement needs to be adjusted and you do not reach an agreement? Then it's see you in court? I'd like a reflection of the rulers on this. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The Invest-NL concept has been incorporated into this law. Is it all perfect? No, it's not. In the Middle Ages, the line of reasoning of artists was that a work of art should not be perfect, for the perfect was exclusively reserved for the Lord. So they also sometimes deliberately made an imperfection in the law. I do not have the impression that an imperfection has been deliberately introduced into the law here. It will never be perfect, but the overall result is certainly acceptable to the PvdA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Market failure, the usual business principles and a defined minimum positive return were and are the three preconditions that the VVD gave in the previous discussion on Invest-NL. It is good to see that these conditions are firmly anchored in the Act of Authorisation to set up Invest-NL. I think the basis is in order. The law will put the house down, and it will soon be up to the residents of the house to deal with it with the future CEO, Mr Bos, present in this room. Because between the first condition, the market failure, and the third condition, the minimum positive return, there is obviously a huge tension. Invest-NL will become a revolving fund to enable funding of projects that otherwise will not come off the ground. Invest-NL will receive a number of existing financial instruments and a capital injection of no less than 1.7 billion. Invest-NL will play a role in the risky activities of companies in the field of major transition assignments. In addition, Invest-NL should also ensure that start-ups grow to larger companies, and regular SMEs should also be able to use Invest-NL. So much for the theory. The demand for market failures must be at the forefront of any investment consideration. Only if the market does not enter or does not enter sufficiently, will Invest-NL appear. I am curious about the way Invest-NL is going to assess per investment whether there is an investment that is not caught by the market. There is talk of an internal process whereby the applicant must be able to submit one to three rejections by relevant market players. That is probably a cold trick, because given that only 2 or 3 out of 100 to 200 applications are accepted from a commercial party, those 3 rejections are therefore best collected. In my view, it is important to demonstrate that there is structural market failure in the relevant segment in which the applicant operates. It is therefore necessary to consider why a rejection has been received. Can the Minister explain how this is going to work later? In any case, there must be sufficient knowledge and skills in the house by the upcoming CEO. Isn't this asking for a clear scope within Invest-NL? Too broad a scope leads to an ever-expanding organisation. Of course, that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u52	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u53	I reacted a little slow because I let it work on me: structural market failure. How does Mr Veldman see that? I'm a party. I have a project, an initiative. I've been to different banks, to three, maybe more. It's not working. And then there's got to be a structural market failure test somewhere. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u54	I ask the Minister to do this, and I call it that, precisely because of what Mr Amhaouch says. As far as I'm concerned, it can't be the intention that someone at Invest-NL knocks on the door, shows three pieces of paper with the message: I've been to a bank, to a private investor and somewhere else, but no one wants to help me; can you help me? I don't think that's the intention. In my opinion, it is necessary to examine whether there really is a structural shortage of money in the market in the segment in which that company operates. It is not enough simply to have a piece of paper that says: I have a rejection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u55	Of course, it won't be a simple negative paper. But here's what I can imagine. If I have a good idea, a good initiative and don't let it be three but five or six; that's twice as much... and I come to Invest-Netherlands, and they also have a development stake, and they judge that on their merits and say "well, this is an interesting project that we want to step into," what is the test? What will be the reason why you say: it cannot be eligible for Invest-NL, because there is no structural market failure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u56	I'm not hanging on the three, four or five Mr Amhaouch calls now, but I can imagine that you'll then investigate if there are similar initiatives that have managed to get money out of the market, or if there are similar other developments in that segment that a market participant just gets into and thinks of: that seems like a good product, which I'm going to invest in and get returns with. Therefore, if others manage to do it and market investments are made within such a segment, then there is no structural market failure, but perhaps it is the product that the trader concerned is working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u57	Mr Moorlag is also in favour of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u58	I do not really know the VVD as a political party with a smooth flow and a precise flow, but I get that impression now, because Mr Veldman is now laying down that it needs to be checked and checked. I know the VVD as the party of deregulation, but isn't this a huge bureaucracy? I wonder where the fear of market disruption arises from. Invest-NL will have 2.5 billion investment capital. That's a lot of money, but if you look at the total investment volume and the balance sheets of the banks, then you can't say in advance that this is extremely market-distorting. Is Mr Veldman's fear not a little similar to the fear of the fact that water is wet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u59	I'm a former swimmer, so I know water's wet like no other. But I am asking these questions with exactly what Mr Moorlag is now describing. That is why I ask the Minister to outline how this is going to work in practice. This has nothing to do with easy or precise. It has to do with exactly what you say: there must be no huge bureaucracy. At the same time, we need to ensure that Invest-NL operates in a market-distorting manner, that Invest-NL invests in projects that afterward prove that the market could have done so. That is not what Invest-NL is founded for. Market failure is one of those first tough conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u60	We should not, however, give the impression here that there is something completely new that is threatening for the functioning of the market. I've been active in the provincial central government for years. There I have had a lot to do with regional development companies, which also provide equity, risk capital. So the comparison with those regional development companies, which VVD delegates were often extremely enthusiastic about, doesn't Mr Veldman offer the comfort that this is not going to be extremely market-distorting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u61	Where that goes well, it offers comfort. But if we looked at that together, we would also find projects that we both say are not so happy about. And precisely in view of the concern that is justified by all kinds of other parties who say that there should be no distortion of the market, that Invest-NL should not become a private investor that oppresses others, we should continue to look critically at which projects are eligible and which are not. My question to the Minister in this connection is how this will be implemented in the near future. Because the theory sounds simple, but I was just saying that the first condition, the market failure, and that third condition, a positive minimum return, can bite each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u62	Then Mr Futselaar for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u63	I can imagine Mr Veldman's position in his own right, but I can also imagine that you are going to create a huge bureaucracy within Invest-NL if you ask for huge evidence for each application. I would like to make the following point. A number of years ago, the OECD wrote a report stating that there is a real lack of credit among SMEs. Can you not generally take as a starting point that there is a market failure with regard to lending in the Netherlands for certain groups of companies instead of doing so per application? I'm the plan-socialist here, but I'm afraid you're gonna rig up a bureaucracy we're all tired of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u64	I agree with Mr Futselaar on this point as well as with Mr Moorlag. That is precisely why I am asking how this is going to work in practice. Because, yes, I agree with you that there should be no huge moloch with a huge bureaucracy. But at the same time we have to make sure that Invest-NL is going to operate market-distortingly. I had started by saying that there must be sufficient knowledge and skills in the house: so yes, there must be an image of how the market operates in the different segments with different goals, which have been identified in that agreement that is to be concluded. How does the market function there? Is there a market? Is there a market failure? Or is there really a market but are the projects simply not good enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u65	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u66	I would like to tell Mr Veldman that I do not think that you can tackle the problem of lack of credit in some companies if you want to avoid any kind of market distortion at the same time. If you do one, you'll always risk the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u67	I don't really hear a question, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u68	I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u69	I also talked about the need for Invest-NL to be really additional. That's where we're on the same page. At the same time, the aim is to invest in a phase where new technological solutions have not yet been able to prove themselves in the market. The aim is also to ensure that this can be done afterwards. Your approach is very static, because then you actually only look at the past, on a case-by-case basis, while the transition continues and the investments hopefully have an effect and thus the interest in the market could grow very quickly. Wouldn't it be better if something more abstracted were to look at the entire portfolio and see if Invest-NL is able, in any way, to shape that additionality rather than adopt the approach you are proposing? Because I'm afraid you'll be trapped in time instead of actually achieving the intended goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u70	I don't think it's as black and white as it is now. At least that is not what I have just meant to say. I agree with Mr Van der Lee that when you talk about additionality, so about market failure, Invest-NL can be a driver in some cases. So that's possible. I come to speak in a moment about what form or how you might get into business, and you can see at a later stage that the market is suddenly starting to move because of the exciting function where there was market failure. Then suddenly there are other investors. I'll be right back to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u71	Then I would like to ask Mr Veldman to give an indication of his approach to the team that Invest-NL is going to give hands and feet. Do you want these to be people who, as a sort of gatekeeper for the grant, will test whether someone meets the criteria, or are you looking for an entrepreneurial team that will work as hard as possible on the wind, where risky investment can promote societal goals and innovation in SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u72	I think it's a combination, but that's exactly what I'm asking the Minister: what's the organization going to look like, what's it going to work like? This will also affect our assessment in three or seven years' time. Mr Amhaouch also asked how we are going to do this later. Does Invest-NL fulfil what we have intended, both in the form and in the substantive results that will be achieved in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u73	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the demand for a clear scope within Invest-NL. Too wide a scope can lead to an expanding organisation. Does the Minister see the emphasis placed so far on the energy transition such as this scope? Is this the scope for the Minister for Economic Affairs to take place? If so, how does this scope relate to the attention that should also be paid to other start-ups and to regular SMEs? Can the Minister promise that Invest-NL will really be an instrument for SMEs? Because, Mr President, just start-ups in SMEs already fall into what is so beautifully called the valley of death, the funding gap in which scale-ups are at risk. At this stage of growth, the amounts required are usually too large for public funds, and private financiers are not in line to invest due to a high risk profile and often long timelines. The result is that the growth of companies stagnates, that the company comes in financial need or that it is bought for an apple and an egg by an international player. We see this in the Netherlands, among other things, in the field of life sciences. Is Invest-NL also providing for this in the case of relatively small investments? Mr. Chairman. I deliberately ask for relatively small investments. Last year, the Dutch Investment Institution closed the door. This investment institution stopped because of the lack of suitable projects for which an investment institution was needed, but also sufficient return could be achieved. What is the difference with Invest-NL? Was the investment institution of pension funds and insurers still too controlled by a financial capital idea? Will Invest-NL provide more in so-called patient capital, with patience investing capital without expecting a quick profit? Get in the car, wait a long time and get out of the car. Precisely as a market failure, I am looking at Mr Van der Lee, so Invest-NL is not so much on the market as it is creating new markets, and is therefore withdrawing from the development of these markets at some point. That brings me to the question of how Invest-NL intends to make investments. The Minister's reply in the note to the report mainly refers to direct forms of financing such as equity, junior debt, long-term senior debt and guarantees. Indirect financing may be an option, but does not seem to be the preferred option. This may be at odds with the task set out in the note on the basis of the report. I quote: Invest-NL does not enter the market, but creates new markets and withdraws itself completely at some point in its development. End of quote. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, creating new markets is particularly successful if market players are encouraged to serve themselves in relation to or adjacent segments that they do not yet serve for any reason. Professional financiers such as venture and growth capital funds have specialised knowledge of and experience in adjacent sectors. This allows them to select the best propositions and manage the investment themselves over a longer term. If these investors can be motivated to become active in today's undeserved sectors, there will also be a clear market there, which will remain after the withdrawal of Invest-NL. Moreover, by making indirect investments, for example through a fund structure, you avoid as much as possible that Invest-NL, perhaps even unintentionally, will operate in a market-distorting way. Good examples of a fund structure are the Seed Capital scheme and the Dutch Venture Initiative, which have proven to be effective in recent years, as the recent evaluation of these instruments also shows. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of DVI, Mr Van der Lee already mentioned this in his contribution to Invest-NL, the proposal is now to transfer this to Invest-NL as a whole. The question is why. This fund has proven itself and can stand on its own two feet. Why don't we just take it to the market? If something can be successful on its own, there is no reason to place it at Invest-NL. How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. The fund structure I just mentioned is governed by the law. That's nice, however, partly because it has to be considered and appointed legally, she has been appointed as a subsidy. It's a little broad-based. The law also makes it possible for subsidies, as we mean in ordinary people's language, to be made available. The VVD believes that this cannot be the intention. We already have a subsidy window; that is the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands, the RVO. I have therefore tabled an amendment to fix this. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares the VVD's view that it is not the intention for Invest-NL to play RVO. I also have another question about the way Invest-NL works. Is Invest-NL going to set up a completely independent organisation or will others who already operate in markets be used? Will there be cooperation with existing organisations? There are, of course, structures that can certainly be used in a practical way. Mr Moorlag mentioned this in the previous general consultation on Invest-NL "buy or make." I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A final remark concerns the role of the shareholder, the Minister of Finance, and the division of tasks between the shareholder and the EZK department. The Act of Authorization lays down an explicit role for the Minister of EZK, which is new. We have not so far had such a formal assignment with a State participant. Can the Minister explain why this law has chosen this formal assignment of a task to the Minister of Trade? Will the Minister of Finance continue to play the primary part or will the role assigned to the Minister of Finance be mixed up? In short, why was this construction chosen? One final comment. How is the Chamber informed whether the goals set for Invest-NL are actually being achieved? Mr Amhaouch had just made a number of comments. I am not talking so much about the success of individual investments, because we in the Chamber should not want to talk about this, but about information to assess whether Invest-NL is doing its job properly and whether the objectives of Invest-NL are being achieved. Can the Court of Auditors play a role in this? Mr Amhaouch also mentioned this in his amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u75	Thank you. Finally, there is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u76	I have another question about the beginning of Mr Veldman's speech. He repeated the terms of the VVD to Invest-NL. He spoke extensively about market failures and the importance of additionality. One of the conditions is also the return. The more riskier Invest-NL can operate, the more likely it will become an additional role, because it will really not be served by the market because the risk is too great. I do not hear much from Mr Veldman about how much risk the VVD feels that Invest-NL should be allowed to take. When it comes to return, how much time can it take before return is made? Is there anything else you can say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u77	Not about the latter in concrete terms, because I now have no idea which projects will be ready to be supported by Invest-NL. As far as I am concerned, I think that Mr Van der Lee and I can find each other there. That's the basic line we've laid out with each other. But yes, if you only want to get on the market where there is a market failure, then you also have to enter markets that others are now saying: I have no confidence in; I am taking too long to get on the market if it is to work. Those are the things that Invest-NL can get into. As I said, it would be best if others also board or board later and Invest-NL can then get off again, because others are going to take over the investment. In the end, you are successfully working on a good return along both lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u78	I do think we are approaching each other, but you may not agree with me. I understand your words in such a way that, when it comes to conditions, additionality and targeting market failures, it is just a little more important than the return to be achieved and the time it takes to achieve that. I think that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u79	I think all three are important. I started with it: market failure, sound business principles and a minimally positive return. As far as I'm concerned, all three of them are equally heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u80	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u81	In my contribution, I asked what exactly is the return. Is that supposed to be a financial return? Should that be the benchmark, what regular financial institutions achieve in return? Or do you have to look at social return? I can leave money on a savings account or invest it, and then I get a financial return. I can also put that money in the removal of overdue maintenance of my home and with that I may create much more value because it saves me all kinds of future costs. Aren't you supposed to do that at society level? Then you do not necessarily aim to achieve a financial return, but then you want to avoid all kinds of social costs in the future. This would also be in line with the broad concept of prosperity that I have mentioned. How does Mr Veldman view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u82	I think that Mr Moorlag and I can agree very well when the situation arises that financial and social returns go hand in hand. That's the beauty of it. Invest-NL's objectives focus precisely on the major societal challenges we face. So it proves itself to be socially useful. But, yes, there has to be just financial return. It should not be the case that we shall probably not be standing here in ten years' time, looking at each other and saying: it was a nice project, EUR 1.7 billion rushed through, some nice things have been achieved in society, but the money is gone. Then we'd better put together a massive subsidy instrument. Then you give money, people start doing some good things and then you know that good things are being realized or not, because you don't know that with subsidies and you lose your money. Revolting means that the fund remains in place and that there has to be a return, financial return. Of course, it is the best thing if it is combined with social return, what we want to achieve together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u83	I agree with Mr Veldman when he says that revolver means that the money has to come back. My point is that sometimes it is better to settle for a few percent less returns if you avoid a lot of social costs. Look at the climate forecast, what we have to do here about climate and the costs that we have to make for it. If Invest-NL achieves a little less return but saves a lot of costs for society, the overall return is more than satisfactory in my opinion. My question to Mr Veltman is whether he shares that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u84	I think so. I still hear Mr Moorlag talking about profitability. A little less return is still return. The nice thing about Invest-NL is that probably the horizon, the scope of how far one can look ahead, is longer than that of regular investors and market players. That is precisely where we see gaps in the market, because the average private investor finds that horizon too far away and wants to have returns sooner and faster. I think we can agree if Mr Moorlag's baseline is also a return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u85	Thank you. I think you have come to the end of your speech. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u86	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday Het Financieele Dagblad wrote about a Dutch success story in the making. It was about an Eindhoven startup that in a month's time reveals a prototype solar car, a car that can run 600 to 800 kilometers on a battery, which battery can then be connected to the electricity network. The car also has solar cells on the roof. For example, it should be possible to travel 20,000 kilometres a year, purely on solar energy. That a couple of guests from Eindhoven dreamed about this at the kitchen table, then had all the means to make that possible and thus make a huge contribution to that sustainability battle I like. These people have made it through themselves, but I hope that with Invest-NL we will see even more of these success stories that we would not otherwise have seen come to fruition. The D66 Group is enthusiastic that this cabinet is committed to innovation and thus to the future earning capacity of the Netherlands. We need everyone's contribution, especially those of innovative entrepreneurs, to tackle the great transitions of our time. As Mr Veldman has just said, Invest-NL can make an important financial contribution to this, including in the form of social returns. That's a wonderful combination. These are projects which are not now on the market but which are of social importance, start-ups or scale-ups that do not find funding to grow through or projects that focus on energy transition and climate, where uncertainties are still too great or the payback effects too long. In short, these are projects for which private investors are afraid of cold water or too little patience. Invest-NL can then provide support by considering how the company can obtain private funding or by investing itself. It has also been said by previous speakers that the Chamber should not interfere with everything or that it should perhaps not do so at project level. In addition, there has been a call for a little more focus. For the people who did that, I do have some sympathy. Mr Van der Lee mentioned that in the early stages of Invest-NL's existence it would probably be wise to look more strongly at projects related to energy and climate transitions and to make them an important part of Invest-NL's work package. I think that is a sympathetic, but also important view. I mean, it'll stay wide, but then maybe we'll focus a little bit more on that area of work. I think that the Minister for Climate Policy should only be able to agree with that. The second is start-ups. For D66, the goal that start-ups and scale-ups can easily get funding to start up and grow is important. It must be complementary to what the market already offers and what stimulates the market. I'd like to ask the Minister how he's going to achieve that goal. How does he ensure that Invest-NL is complementary to the market rather than distorting the market? I also ask for this because I read in the supplementary agreement that the investment demand of start-ups and scale-ups must be at least five million, where growth naturally belongs to the investment domain. When I look at start-ups, that limit feels a little high for me, precisely because they need risk capital in the initial phase. So I would also like to ask the Minister to explain what the minimum investment question is going to be, on which it is now based, and whether he shares the concern that these start-ups could perhaps be affected. Mr. Chairman. As regards DVI, colleagues Veldman and Van der Lee said, if I do, that companies were allowed to take an interest, but were not allowed to take over. In my opinion, Mr Veldman argued in favour of looking at the possibility of putting DVI on the market. I would like to support that plea. Other colleagues have asked when we know if Invest-NL has succeeded, when the goals have been achieved and how we control it. The CDA advocated giving the Court a role in this. I also heard a question from Mr Veldman about this. I would like to join in this for the sake of short notice, just as I do with questions about the European State aid framework. It is important to know what the European Commission thinks about Invest-NL in order to get out of the starting blocks quickly. In parallel with the legislative proposal, there are discussions with the Commission on permissible State aid. I ask the Minister: how are these talks going? When do the directors expect clarity and hopefully the green light? Since the foundation of Invest-NL, there has been a lot of talk about governance, written and in committee rooms. I would like to talk briefly here about how Invest-NL and the Ministry will deal with competition complaints. In the legislative proposal, Invest-NL, like for example the Chamber of Commerce, has been chosen to deal independently with complaints about competition and additionality. The Minister then supervises the correct application of the additionality principle and the corresponding complaint resolution by Invest-NL. I would like to know from the Minister where a company such as Invest-NL cannot agree to the resolution of the complaint, and also how the Chamber can supervise that resolution of complaints in a broader sense. That doesn't have to happen by incident, but maybe it can happen every year. Something has also been said about corporate social responsibility by colleague Van der Lee. For the sake of clarity, I also agree with Mr Mulder that, at the very beginning of my parliamentary membership, when I was the spokesperson for development cooperation, I tabled a motion with Mr Mulder which said that companies should be able to benefit from state aid only if they act in accordance with the OECD guidelines. So I also feel a lot of sympathy for that input. Diversity has also been achieved; I would also like to mention this briefly. We need everyone's contribution to make this a success, to tackle the great transitions of our time. I therefore find it rather shocking to see that in some private investment funds only 1.6% of the start-ups financed are run by a woman. Researchers at the VU recently found that nine out of ten funds consist exclusively of men. Then you'll get a certain bias. In order to be possible criticisms, I am not concerned that Invest-NL should attract companies with a woman at the top, but that they should have a fair chance and that everyone's talent and potential should be exploited for the economy of the future. So I would also like to ask the Minister whether he is also aware of this diversity in the composition of the Invest-NL Supervisory Board. Finally, Mr President. I do not think we can start quickly enough with the great transitions of our time to deal with climate change and the development of new technologies, because they are not waiting for us. Today's biggest tech companies are in the United States, and China wants to be the global technology giant in about 15 years. I want to see Europe on that world stage too. That is why it is important that the innovations that are being created here in the attic room and which the market finds too risky are also soon supported. (NL) Mr President, all in all. Colleague Van der Lee mentioned a sailboat that was so advanced that with the slightest mistake you already boarded the nose in the water and hit overboard, because that boat sails a bit like you have wings underneath it. I can tell you from my own experience that a falcon can turn you over. I am not very proud of that myself, but that does indicate that the investment vehicle or the boat on which you sail depends not only on how firm or manoeuvrable that boat is, but also on the captain and the crew. In this respect, I must say that I have confidence in this investment vehicle and wish the future captain every success in recruiting a good crew and in ensuring that he is on a sharp course. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u87	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I am going to suspend until 8 p.m. for dinner break so that the ministers can prepare for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u88	We are starting on the first term of the ministers' side. A lot of questions have been asked. I would like to ask the Ministers to reply briefly. I also hope that Members of Parliament will intervene briefly. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u89	If you look at it from this field, you'd almost say "broken up public money." Many of you are falling into the arms of the new institute, Invest-NL. I must say, however, that the Minister of Finance and I noticed that your presentation of this new institution in your speeches is a bit colourful to one's own ideology. For example, we will have an animal in our house that can run very fast, can fly very fast, can swim and also play simultaneous chess. We're all very happy about that. Here's what I want to do. After a brief introduction I want to talk about the goals and the focus. Then I would like to talk about the criteria, including the market failure and return assessment. Then I would like to comment on the extent to which arrangements can be implemented or not, and on the relationship with the other funds. I would also like to talk about the role of the House of Representatives and the monitoring and state aid, also in relation to timing. After that, it is estimated that I have a dozen more questions that do not fit anywhere, but which you have asked. I'll answer it in the order of the spokesperson. With regard to questions such as the General Court and CSR, the new shareholder will speak. I think it would be wise to start the debate with the question: why? Why are we even doing this? That was also the first question from the first speaker, Mr Van der Lee. So it fits him to start with the why. Why do we need this? Of course, we already had social goals. Scale-ups aren't new either. We haven't discovered anything new as a government task either. From now on, are we going to fund all societal goals publicly? On this point, I see varying tastes among the spokesmen. Will every growing company and SME become a customer of the government? It's not that. It remains, of course, that we live in a society in which the market does the most, including in terms of societal challenges. We have entire sectors that are one stronghold of societal challenges that are entirely done by the market. Energy is one, but so is care. There are few parties in care that are not private. I also mention the food supply. This is what markets do. Essentially, that doesn't change. But Invest-NL is then there where market failures are, where an investment in a social purpose or in a start-up or scale-up in SMEs might be able to render it; it may seem profitable, but that investment does not come about in one way or another. Please note that this is different from the other type of investment that is not made. There are also investments, including in societal challenges and also in SMEs, which are not achieved, but there is an uneconomic summit there. It could be useful. Sometimes the state feels that it should continue to do so. That's what subsidies are for. For example, we have the SDE for that. So these are uneconomic peaks. That is quite different from a market failure. For the grant targets we have grants and for the financing needs where market failures exist, Invest-NL covers an investment need. So what are these market failures? I'm saying that to get a sense of it anyway. What I also like about this institute is because I see that we can solve market failures, not just by working with a bag of money, but by really adding something to the project. Let me give you an example. A well-known market failure in many societal challenges is, for example, coordination failure. For example, parties do not come together. They don't trust or find each other and there's not enough weight to say to the parties: why don't you put together that heat grid? Then the presence of Invest-NL can also read a little "a public body" and also read a little "the government" to help give that push and bring parties together. It then comes out of the land in itself profitable investment. Other parties therefore believe that it comes from the ground. In that case, to a significant extent, the equity ratio can always be more than half and probably significantly more than half of the equity ratio is still still privately financed. But then you attach that piece of credibility, that piece of weight, to the project that was intrinsically good, just attracts investors, also private investors. That was coordination failure. It could also be a regulatory risk. Something seems attractive. But, yeah, isn't the government gonna change the law in two years? You'll only have invested in coal power plants and you'll remember that! So there are also regulatory risks. And this also applies: when a public party participates, it becomes a bit more credible, allowing private capital to be increased. There are other market failures. I put a lot of effort into getting them all into the explanatory statement. I'll come back to why I went to such lengths for that. What can we do with the criteria? In this way, I will give an implicit answer to the question put by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Veldman in that direction: yes, of course, you will find yourself inherent in the more risky investments. Had it not been risky and had it not been for all these coordination problems and regulatory risks, we would have had no problem with it. This is in fact the largest part of the volume of investment, including in terms of societal challenges in our society, just the case. That does not mean that this is not something that is crowding out private capital. No, in fact, it makes the private capital market bigger. It does not reduce the market for private capital, as these investments would not otherwise have been there. They'll get there now. They are still, after all, by a large majority, I would like to say that they are financed by private capital. The market for private investment is therefore also growing. Perhaps companies that are now buying their own shares can co-invest in profitable societal goals precisely thanks to this vehicle. But that does mean you have to solve that market failure first. That's the goal. I sometimes get thrown out of my way: well, Mr Wiebes, none of this is gonna work, because NLII hasn't been able to do that either. No, that's exactly the proof. When we tried to get private investors to do something purely without solving market failures, it didn't work because market failures existed. So we have a key here to turn, then turn it into a market. Then the idea is that you can produce a whole private investment market and a market for social products and services, or SMEs, or innovation. It's gonna make it a more known risk. By doing so, market players learn that this is also a market for them. Eventually one can do without Invest-NL and so Invest-NL can step out of the investments in which it is. That's the goal. That means that there is no question of something that will always be here. Market failures can also be solved at some point by showing that something can be done. I'll get to the targets right away. We have two: increasing investment in societal transitions, where there are all these uncertainties, but also SMEs and scale-ups, where the risks are. There are those market failures and there we have activities, a focus. Many of you say: that is quite broad. There are several things to say about that. Yeah, it's wide. I have, if I may put it this way, tried to show myself to be a good reader of all those flying, swimming and running animals you saw before you. I have tried to facilitate all those suggestions that came out of Parliamentary questions, where that was in line with the concept. So if you see the broadness, then I think you should look at each other as well. A genuine attempt has been made to facilitate this while maintaining the objectives. On the other hand it is also wise to keep it a bit wide. I'm going to do that in different ways... If you were forced to write such an additional agreement two years ago, you would have made it different. So that means there's some dynamics in it that you need to recognize. This means that we can now say that this or that is the most important thing, but that we will probably see that in two years' time we will be hampered by the fact that something new has emerged. For example, an invention has been made that we would like to roll out, but that is not possible, because it is not in our supplementary agreement. So it makes sense to give some freedom of policy. Besides, if you hammer it all the way down and you're gonna shut it down, it's gonna be some kind of government instruction, and then my colleague has a problem, because he has to say that it's an extension of the government. He will then have to process the investments in the balance. Very unattractive, I can say. But that will be explained by the Minister of Finance, who, by the way, is much better at keeping terrifying stories about this than I do. But we don't want to. I would also like to put it into perspective that it would all be so broad, because it is aimed at those market failures. So it is not the case that all these areas will soon be mainly done by Invest-NL. You can't do that at all. Make the sums. No, the climate forecast is not 1,000 billion, but add up the investments, look at the arm length of Invest-NL and you know that this is not a viable map. You don't want to, you don't have to, but you can't. So no, we don't go into everything. Mr Van der Lee would like to limit it even further. He's wondering if there's any need for nanophotonics. There aren't any companies that do that, are there? Then I think, okay, but that could be the market failure. The fact that it is not there does not mean that it is not necessary, but that it may be necessary. I think that Mr Van der Lee's neighbor is already more positively nodding in nanophotonics, because he may think that something is needed there because apparently it is not coming off the ground right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u90	I see that Mr Van der Lee wishes to intervene, but first I would like to ask the Minister how far he is with this block. In order to keep pace, it seems useful to me to do the interruptions at the end of the blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u91	I'm about halfway through now with my targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u92	Then I suggest that you conclude and then I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u93	I'm doing the best I can. The amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Van der Lee proposes to put a cap on it and limit it to SMEs. The fact that a social objective is at stake and whether there is a market failure does not depend on the size of the company. The fact that a company buys or does not buy its shares does not mean anything about the market failures and does not yet want to say anything about the social purpose. I therefore advise against that amendment. I will say in the direction of Mr Van der Lee that we have two objectives in there. SMEs, start-ups and scale-ups: this is the goal. The social goals are also in place. Mr Van der Lee asks whether climate in that area is not very obvious. Yeah, that's a logical first candidate for a firm step. It won't surprise him to hear from my mouth that I think so. This additional agreement provides for this. No, that cannot be done in an AMvB, because then the independence of that state participation will be compromised and it will become a balance issue. It must stand at a distance from the State, but it must act as a rational investor, with the additional agreement in hand. As a result, Mr Amhaouch has asked why this thing is being implicitly extended. Well, "extended silently" only means that it will be extended if you don't say anything, but that anyone is free to speak at any time. You have to do something if someone doesn't say anything, so if they don't, it'll be extended. That's how you read it. But the State and Invest-NL each have the opportunity to always declare that they will refrain from further extension and want to do it again. So there are those possibilities. There are also evaluations every seven years, but starting in three years. I think it would be excellent to consult the Chamber if there are any changes. I would like to focus on one aspect of the focus and objectives, namely SMEs. Let me say specifically here: yes, that is also a goal. It's an independent goal. There have been questions about that from the CDA and the VVD. No, it's not that every SME loan you don't get is a reason to contact Invest-NL. First of all, the business case cannot be good, the management can be crooked or it cannot be a responsible investment for another reason. Wherever it is, it should be possible. There's not really a lower limit in that. The pieces contain an upper limit of the ROMs, but there is no lower limit of Invest-NL. It is obvious, however, that if we really want to do smaller tranches and a larger quantity, we need to do it through funds, possibly together with other parties. It is obvious not to impose on a relatively limited organisation in terms of size. We want to make ourselves explicitly available to SMEs. I say "we," but I don't mean "we," of course, because I'm not Invest-NL. Invest-NL should promote itself as an independent organisation and offer opportunities for contact through websites and companies. There are all kinds of platforms where entrepreneurs find each other, but where they also find funding opportunities. We must ensure that other organisations refer to Invest-NL. In the discussions with the management of Invest-NL, we must take into account that they can be found by the parties who are involved. We already know that not every SME in the Netherlands is watching this debate. Mr President, so much for the goals and the focus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u94	Thank you. Then the first interruption is for Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u95	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I want a misunderstanding out of the world. I did not say that Invest-NL would not be able to invest in projects such as photonics, nanotechnology and quantum mechanics in the long term. I explained on the basis of Mazzucato that it is most likely that Invest-NL will focus more on the climate and energy transition in the early stages, because there is a lot going on there and many new technologies can probably be scaled up. So it wasn't meant to be a thematic containment, but more focused on time. First choose something promising and then extend it further. I would like to move on to the amendment. The essence of the amendment is to change "or" to "and." I did that in the first place. Then I got back from the department: yes, but with the first objective it is unclear which companies are involved. That needs to be defined. That is why I have come up with the proposal to put a cap on it somewhere to get the definition around. I'll tell you what my problem is. I hope the Minister will come up with a suggestion on how to do this better. If the word "or" is used, everything can potentially be done. Then the goal is to strengthen the Dutch economy, and that really is everything. I would have liked to limit that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u96	No, those criteria remain. It's not like everything can happen. Also given the amount, only a very limited part can be done. This must be very selective in terms of return, market failure and, if necessary, social objectives. They're two secondary targets. Even if scale-ups and start-ups in SMEs are not directly linked to one of the above-mentioned societal goals, but are in themselves economic-enhancing and clearly suffering from market failures, they may be eligible. On the other hand, if you actually make a big contribution per euro to the social objective, I do not see why it should not be a large enterprise. Again, my argument is that the extent to which a social purpose and the market failure come together is not determined by the size of the company. I would not therefore like to take the size of the company as a distinction. Mr Van der Lee actually says: you have to meet both one and the other, you have to be small and social. But here it's just like one or-or positioned. They're two secondary targets. I do not want to exclude those SMEs that do not serve a particular social purpose. But neither do I want to exclude the large company that does serve the social purpose. That's not the point. So it's not meant as a crossroads, it's meant as two parallel columns of activities. Mr Van der Lee says that he has had an opinion on how he can put his intention into an appropriate amendment. That does not, of course, mean that it has been said in one way or another that the government would agree with that amendment. He has tabled an appropriate, well-understood amendment, a compliment for the service of amendments, but from the government's point of view we say: no, there are two secondary objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u97	I didn't mean to imply that it had already been given the green light.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u98	Me neither!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u99	But I've just explained why it's there the way it says it. My primary goal was indeed to make "or" "and." That has something to do with it on the one hand, as I said, but the Minister has not yet talked about it: large companies have so much money that they do not know what to spend it on and buy their own shares. On the other hand, it has to do with the fact that there is still a good deal of discussion as to whether this instrument presents a risk of being a form of state aid. From that perspective, too, it might be better to make the focus a little sharper. Where the market failure is really concentrated is SMEs, a seed, start-ups, scale-ups. It's not with the big companies. They can also look more closely at the long-term social return from their own investment capacity; that is exactly what we are aiming for with other policies. That is why I have come to this amendment, but I am open to an improvement. So if the Minister has any further suggestion for that, I would like to listen to it, but I think he would be wise to focus on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u100	I would simply leave the assessment of the state aid issue to the Commission. We don't have to do that here. I take note of Mr Van der Lee's warning that we must pay close attention to this, but I am discussing this with the Commission. The question is this. Can we say, big companies are big, big means you have enough money, so you don't need money, so... and so on? But it is not a question of whether there is enough capital, because there is enough capital available for a lot of things. There is also enough capital available for very small companies, because the private equity companies are in line with each other and pension funds are looking for investments that are still slightly profitable. There is no capital shortage, there are market failures. That is why we want to solve it in order to ensure that all that private capital can go to those social goals or those SMEs or those scale-ups. It is not enough to say that these companies have enough money, or there are enough investors for this. Yeah, they're here, but we need to get rid of those market failures first. The simple existence of enough capital doesn't mean it's getting going. In fact, NLII, the Dutch Investment Institution, has shown that even if you sit down with parties that count their assets in hundreds of billions, you will not get this going yet. So I want to solve the market failures and then use all that capital and create a market for these investments. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u101	I am concerned about some clarification on my amendment. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: the agreement between the State and Invest-NL cannot be reached via AMvB, because then there is too much state influence and then we get into other problems with the balance et cetera. Only, the current law explicitly states that it can be done via AMvB. What this amendment does is to say: turn the possibility into an automatism. But if the Minister says that it is impossible at all, it seems to me that the current law is not correct either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u102	Look, if a possibility is not exploited, there will be no accidents. I'll come back to it in the second term. I'll keep my answer. Mr Futselaar is a careful reader. I thank him for that. I just wanted to go to the criteria, because there's about the criteria...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u103	But there is another question from Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u104	We're gonna stick to the block, Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that the Minister says that the upper limit of the ROMs, the 5 million, is not the lower limit for Invest-NL. I think that's very important to conclude. The Minister therefore says that we need to see how we can organise this through funds. But here it comes: we also have to guarantee it very well, as I said in my contribution, so that SMEs with these amounts do not... Mkbs can have very good ideas. An idea often starts small, and starting with 1 or 2 million, you can later be the bigger boy. How does the Minister see fit to organise it properly in the implementation so that SMEs do not hang on to the last mem, especially around those amounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u105	This playful language is now part of the legal history. This will also rub the management of Invest-NL under the nose. But look, this isn't exactly something I'm gonna sit down and do. If I could do it, we'd have a whole different institution here. Then we also had a different kind of government and we had a different kind of goal. So this is exactly what we want to put away from the government. We leave it in the hands of professionals. The targets are clear. I will tell you later how the Chamber can keep an eye on achieving those goals, how the Chamber can control them and how it can influence them. That's important. But the crux of the matter is that I am not going to determine that from here on, but that, in response to Mr Amhaouch's sensible question, I am also going to make this part of the legal history and send it to the management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u106	Mr. Amhaouch is satisfied with this answer. Then we'll move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u107	Yes. Several things have been said about the criteria. How do you ensure additionality? Let me begin by saying that all parties benefit from this additionality. Because the private parties do not want to be out of competition, but benefit from solving the market failures, because that creates a market for them. They therefore benefit from this additionality. Invest-NL also benefits from this additionality, because if Invest-NL is going to invest where investments were already possible, the relatively limited capacity that there is in that very large market is simply losing pace. Then you'd rather put it in other things, which you can't put that capital into. So this will benefit everyone. Somewhere in the documents, I believe in the explanatory memorandum, there is an example of one to three rejections. In my view, you really should read this as follows. If someone has not taken the trouble to approach any funder, that is in any case not an indication of a market failure. But it's not the other way around, too, that if you can show three rejections, you've become the victim of a market failure. You could also be the victim, again, of crappy management, a bad business case or whatever. So it is up to the Investment Committee to fill in the criterion of additionality in a meaningful and substantive way. No, we're not doing a market study for that. And we're not gonna make a long procedure out of that either. But just putting three rejections in the copier isn't what I'm thinking. I believe that it must be made clear in substance that there is a market failure. I would like to return to what I said at the beginning of my speech: this is why at the beginning of this cabinet period I made so much trouble to have described market failures with some precision in that explanatory statement. I think it is good for no one, not for the social goals, not for the government and not for the market, to stain it all the time and make it a mission creep, or criterion creep, or something else creep, in the vein of: ever more, ever more vague, this is also fun if this is fun, that is also fun. At some point things are gonna be fun, then you're gonna get involved too, me too, and then we're all gonna like things... So it helps to be a bit businesslike in this and also to request a substantive assessment from the Investment Committee. I therefore ask Members not to stare blindly at this example in the explanatory statement, but to assume that these criteria are taken seriously. There's seven of them. This is an important one. It requires a substantive answer from the Investment Committee. The other criterion is, of course, efficiency. Then maybe I should go back to what might be meant by the word "revolver." Because revolver isn't that you say, well, you know, if it's 0% return, then at least you get your money back, which revolves. That's not how it works. This is the world of corporate finance. Two Nobel Prizes were awarded for this; it is quite a science. Then let me give you my definition of "revolver." "Revolver" is that there is a return on a particular risk. If there is a project that has a great chance of failure, it does not mean that you simply should not do that project, but it means that you make a higher return requirement. If that project then goes wrong, there might be another project with a high rate of return that goes well, and a blast could be the compensation for a bump. "Revolver" means, therefore, that you have to make an orderly return requirement. If it is a high risk project, then to get it revolved at portfolio level, you need to have a real market-related return forecast per project. Invest-NL's joke is not that we provide soft loans that a bank could never compete with and so on, but rather that we reduce the risk through the involvement of a public authority, which actually reduces the risk by reducing the risk of coordination, regulation or risk, which makes it attractive to parties even at a lower rate of return. That's the crux. "Revolver" means, therefore, that there is a need to look seriously at return requirements per project. I do not go entirely along with Mr Moorlag, who says: well, one percent less. It shouldn't be one percent less than revolver. This means that we have to deal in an orderly manner with the relationship between risk and return. Again, two Nobel Prizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u108	Were you almost at the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u109	No, not quite. I also have the international part of the criteria that Mr Futselaar has asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u110	Why don't we do that first? Mr Van der Lee will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u111	Mr Futselaar has actually said... These are the moments when you think: I really agree with Mr Futselaar. That may be even more painful for Mr Futselaar than for me. He says that it should primarily benefit the Netherlands and we should not finance the neighbours. Yeah, that's right. But the amendment in part No. 15, I believe, also wants to have a statutory Dutch company, and that is not necessary. This is a form of corporate xenophobia that we do not need here. We must be able to prove that whoever it is and whoever it is behind it is an investment that benefits the Netherlands. There's a lot of ways to do that. That is why I do not recommend that amendment, but I agree with the statement that I have literally recorded by Mr Futselaar. I hope that I will write as quickly as the author of the Acts and that it will prove to be true later, but that is not to be verified. I fully agree with his intention, but not with his amendment. We can imagine all kinds of Dutch interests. I sometimes read in the media something about export credits, but that is all nonsense; that is not what we are talking about. We are simply talking here about clear Dutch interests along those two columns. Mr. Chairman. That was my input on the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u112	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr Van der Lee for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u113	I would like to come back to the clear explanation given by the Minister about how he defines a revolving fund, how he looks at the return and how a risky investment with a high return that eventually succeeds can compensate for things that go wrong. Fine. I would just like to look back at the general discussion we had last year on the interaction between the assessment at individual level, on a project basis versus the yield of standards and, in particular, on what timeframe the board of directors will be able to apply in the near future. If you set a standard yield, it is important how and when you test it. Especially in the initial phase, it is still very unclear what is going to render. Can too tight a standard yield mean that you cannot make individual choices? And if you have room for normal efficiency, can you? Can the Minister say a little more about the space in it, even in the years that need to prove that there is an overall return on standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u114	We have had this discussion before in general consultation, but I think I am going to reassure Mr Van der Lee. However, I say that the way in which that is operationalised, how we check it and what deadlines you look at is really a matter of state participation. The Minister of Finance will be able to say something about that. The standard yield is not the return requirement of an individual project. That's bullshit. Again, two Nobel Prizes are not just put aside! A risk is a project characteristic and a return is based on it. This means that, depending on the risk, you make a return requirement on a project-by-project basis. A standard yield is not much different than the ex-ante estimate of the weighted addition of all those returns to a portfolio return. That is useful, because this is how state participation works, but that does not mean that this is an individual requirement for return per project. It's not that. The Minister of Finance could say more about how we will ultimately implement this. There are also, Mr. Chairman, if I go to the next block...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u115	Let me take a look at Mr Moorlag. He made a mockery. Yes, an interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u116	The minister does a little bit trivializing about one percent less, but the portee of my contribution was next. There may be a project with a significant coordination failure and a significant risk profile. Then you should use such a risk premium, that such a whole investment may not happen, while it potentially has something in it that society or the government can generate a lot of money or social profit. Then it shouldn't be the case that you don't make funding available for that, right? Surely we are not all of us from yesterday in the sense that something that is likely cannot go on and that we write it off because there is a high risk premium to be used?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u117	It's the night of English terms, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u118	The very first and best way to bring this together is that the advent of Invest-NL, the participation of Invest-NL, simply reduces the risk. There are examples that are conceivable. Thinking about Mr Moorlag, I can imagine something about geothermals, for example. If you drill hits, you get a return. If you screw up, you've got a lot of information. Then you know where you shouldn't drill. Geothermicy is such a case.................................................................................................................................................. It could be. In that sense, let me go along with Mr Moorlag that you sometimes see reveuen that you cannot immediately find on the same balance sheet. You should keep an open eye on that. I think we understand each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u119	I think that's a good concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u120	Then the Minister continues with the following block: arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u121	Yeah, the arrangements. For the careful readers of the letter from a previous cabinet: this was originally an institution that was broader thought. It would also be hung at EZK and it would implement a larger number of schemes as a kind of one-stop shop idea, which would be a bit of a wonder, because that one-stop shop is next to a lot of other counters. That it didn't, it's up to me, too. I didn't think that was an appropriate way. I do not see any clear synergy to include subsidy schemes in a very specific investment institute like this. I don't see that. I can already say that I see the logic of the amendment to item No. 19 by Mr Veldman. I can support that. It is not the intention of this government to do so. However, it is intended to include existing investment schemes where appropriate and where it serves the same target group. A four-piece is now being thought of. There were also in the inventory which we said: "Gut, can we not lift it now? That also cleans up nicely." But there are now four that will go with you. I think that this may be the intention, but specifically about the Dutch Venture Initiative, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Veldman asked: should we actually keep it? Is that where we are in the pure definition of additionality? Is that another government job? I think that perhaps we should follow Mr Veldman's suggestion to re-examine whether that could be rejected, obviously on somewhat acceptable terms. Then the proof of the pudding in the eating. If someone wants to take over, it is apparently no longer a government task, but if no one wants to do so, then that is the case now. But I just don't see a government as a party that keeps funding institutions in the air permanently. So I would very much like to make a commitment to the two questioners in this area that I would like to dive in there to see if DVI cannot be disposed of to the market. Mr Amhaouch said that there are many more such arrangements and asked whether this could not be done in one single window. That's the question again. There is no one window for all things in the world. You have to put together things that clearly have the same target group and the same goal. It is not my belief that there are other funds that fit in well with that at the moment, other than those four that we have identified and could deal with, which I would like to mention just now because we are going to look more closely at. So for other financial instruments and funds, simply no synergy has been found with Invest-NL. If that's the case, then so is it. That's what it's designed to do: if something shows up tomorrow that we say would be great for it and that it's almost the same. You can also let it go into it. But at the moment I do not have any examples of arrangements that we could add to them other than the four we have found. Mr. Chairman. The one who asked the question most extensively was Mr Amhaouch. He looked at the question of what the role of the Chamber is; how do we get a grip on this? When it comes to legal treatment, that grip is obvious. That's what we're doing here. But it has just been discussed that interaction can be organized with that additional agreement. If there are major changes to this, then that can be discussed. Each year, of course, there will also be an Annual Report on the Management of State Participations. KPIs will also be discussed. The cabinet first talks with Invest-NL about it, but then the Chamber can ask the government about it. The main question, the monitoring question, is as follows. Each year that progress is made in that annual report, with those indicators. These indicators can be CO-saving and so on. But there is also just a progress report that Invest-NL makes specific to the State. And I do not think it is a problem at all in the first few years simply to give it all the openness that is conceivable and, where necessary, to enter into the debate on it. We need to keep an eye on our new pet at first. It needs to be raised. It's not weird at all to talk about that. The projects are behind a fence, the thing is remote, but it is not weird at all if the social instincts of the organisations themselves are sharpened by the input from this Chamber. So I guess that's how it should be. Then, of course, we still have the formal moment of evaluation: the first after three years and then every seven years. Those are also significant moments. These are investments in the often somewhat longer term. Then a time horizon of every seven years once very firm look is not weird at all. You can learn a lot from that. I think that is very useful and that every seven years we will come to just different conclusions. The world is changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u122	I think the minister was at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u123	Yeah, I was at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u124	In my opinion, the Minister is a little light-hearted about the important urgent question of the Chamber as to how we can structure such an institution, which is remote from the Chamber, with 1.7 billion, which we want to avoid becoming a play ball. The only thing we are now reading back in Article 7 is that after three years there will be a first evaluation and after seven years there will be another one. What we are looking for is: how do we guarantee that? The annual report, the appreciation also comes from the cabinet, how do they view it? What is very important is how we find out whether these funds have been used effectively and effectively. That is where we see a role for the Court of Auditors, as we have said in our input. Can the Minister reflect on that? I don't know who's gonna come back to that, but I don't want to take it off with "yes, we're gonna do something after three years, we're gonna do something after seven years and there's gonna be an annual report every year." I don't feel good about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u125	Let us ask the Minister of Finance, who would also address the role of the General Court. He can also tell much more about how state-participating policy enables the Chamber to gain insight and question the Cabinet accordingly. It does not seem to me to be light, we have a whole policy and a department that has an important role to play in managing these kinds of institutions. That is why I thought it wise not to place it with EZ, but with Finance. There is a professional way of working which we are used to and with which we have good experience, so that the Chamber can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u126	Agreed. Then I'll wait for the Minister of Finance's response. We now have two ministers, and the annual report will also be discussed by our Minister. In law, we call it our Minister of Economic Affairs. Will the substantive appreciation be given to the Minister of Finance's annual report or will it come from the Minister of EZ each year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u127	The Minister for Finance and I will talk about the division of tasks between us, but I would suggest that we start with a few words. I say there are three moments. The State itself is in conversation with Invest-NL and receives a kind of reporting for that purpose. There are many ways in which I can open this up. The annual report offers a whole arsenal of opportunities to talk about this. I do not think that this is easy, but we are looking at the Minister of Finance, who is doing this successfully with far larger holdings than Invest-NL. Then the state aid process, there are two. Firstly, the European Commission must approve the state aid notifications submitted to the European Commission at the beginning of April. The last estimate is that it could be June before it comes. The expectations of this are favourable. There were many wishes, such as supporting SMEs and start-ups and scale-ups that in themselves do not have sufficient capital in their balance sheets. The wish was to safeguard them from the predicate State aid and good progress has been made in this regard. The second is the review by CBS and Eurostat. This is about the capital injection and is a matter for the Ministry of Finance. That is still going on, but the Chamber will be informed when that is done. It is expected to be in June. That should be before the First Chamber agrees, so before it's a law. This should be approved before it is set up, and this seems to be quite feasible. I don't expect any trouble there right now. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm out of general blocks. I haven't done a few things yet, and I'm here to talk to you about that. Mr Amhaouch asked to what extent national and international funds could be stacked. Do I understand his question correctly? In fact, it's one of the reasons. One of the reasons was that we did not have a so-called national promotional institution which would make it more difficult for us to use the Juncker funds, also because this often involves cofinancing. This will make this easier. I should rather like to explain positively the word'stacking': by having this institution, we will be better able to raise European funds for these projects. Mr Amhaouch rightly stressed the importance of cooperation with the ROMs. I have signed a festive declaration of cooperation on cooperation with all kinds of co-financing with IPO, regions and ROMs. That is the kick-off for cooperation that we need to shape both at strategic and project level. Then Mr Amhaouch also asked about EBN as a co-financer. I have just given an example of this. The intention is to include EBN, but in projects they know about: everything underground. The new mining activity is geothermal, and EBN could participate in it, albeit not in a majority stake. We used to bring out energy in the form of oil and gas, now we bring out energy in the form of heat. It remains a mining activity that you need to know a lot about and for all kinds of reasons government participation in it is wise. Then Mr Moorlag asked whether there should be an advisory council. I must say that I do not see such a need for a specific advisory board. If this company is properly committed to its social task, the social antennas should be put in order anyway. I want to give the management of Invest-NL the opportunity to show that these social antennas are being created and that there is no need for an advisory board. A complementary agreement and the setting up of areas in which this company must operate in the future will involve other social players. So also from the government's side the antennas are called on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u128	There is an interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u129	I do see the value of such an advisory board, the minister less. He says there must be social antennae. If you organize it more permanently and give some parties a place, care can also be taken away. This morning it was read in Het Financieele Dagblad that there is also concern from the financial sector. Well, why don't you put a representative of that financial sector on the board so he can see if the shed stays close to the cottage. Can I understand it that the Minister says he wants to leave it more to management? He's not going to formalize it, but he doesn't mind it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u130	Well, do I object... I do not think it is appropriate to start now. I suggest that if we speak with each other after the evaluation of the first or second year, we may come to the conclusion that it might still be necessary. But I don't want to do that right now. Let us begin lightly, assuming that the agreement we are about to conclude is decisive and that we have used the social antennas sufficiently. I just want to give it a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u131	But I do understand, with the government's remoteness, that the Minister does not say that the position is completely concrete. But let's say Invest-NL thinks it's a useful thing. For example, I myself was a member of the board of a cooperative, PGGM, which had to be independent because of the division of pension funds. At that time, the question was how such an institution would develop. Will it be just a financial institution with all financial professionals in it? At that time, a cooperative structure was chosen, with a membership council, so that incentives from the environment are also provided to ensure that such an organisation continues to serve the social interest. For me, that is the conviction of value. What if Invest-NL's management sees the value of that as well? The Minister isn't going to set up a blockade, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u132	If there will be a member council, yes, but if there will be an advisory board or a stakeholder contact or whatever, it won't. If management thinks it wants to connect with society in a certain way, I am not going to lie down for that. My night isn't spoiled. I'm just saying I object to putting it here from the start. It is up to management to decide how it wants to follow all developments in society. My night isn't spoiled. Mr Moorlag has asked why there is no shareholder instruction. That answer is very similar to the one I gave to Mr Futselaar in relation to the AMvB. It is a form of control that is just too direct again, so you can no longer speak of an institution remotely. I think I have made it sufficiently clear to Mr Veldman that I do not think there are any permanent tasks for such an institution. If it runs and the market failure is gone, you should be able to get out. We're starting things, but we're not a permanent investor. Then Mr Veldman asked whether we should cooperate sufficiently with other parties. Do we do everything ourselves, do we do things with others or do we let others do things? I think you can almost say it even stronger. If Invest-NL does something alone, the target has already not been achieved. There has been continuous cooperation with other holders of equity and debt, with parties in such a consortium and with governments that have to put the regulations in order. If you go into a consortium like that, you don't have to do everything yourself. Invest-NL's humanisation would not allow it to do everything alone. Then the pace doesn't come up. You really have to think of it as a party that participates as a driver, but further uses the knowledge that is in a consortium. We're permanently with partners in the weather. He also asked why the political role of the Minister for Economic Affairs was laid down by law. I think that's his question. In some other State participations this is not the case, but often this policy role in other State participations is anchored in a different way. For example, there are laws implementing the State participation in question, in which this policy role is anchored. It's not like that here. To ensure that it works the same as with those other State participations, it has been chosen here to lay that down in this law. Then Mr Sjoerdsma. He asked how we deal with complaints that are not handled satisfactorily by Invest-NL. I can still use it. Someone can always go to court. I have the power to give instructions to terminate an activity, if there is evident interference outside the box or entering a domain that should not be entered. I honestly do not expect that to happen soon, and I do not think he should assume that either. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u133	The Chamber thinks otherwise. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u134	I don't know if I'm on the other side of the dividing line. It is not so much a CSR criterion but rather the exclusion of investment in fossil. I asked a question about that. I believe that there is an amendment and I am concerned about this category of blue hydrogen. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u135	That's right. I think Mr Futselaar was very strict about that. He said never fossil. A social goal may have something to do with fossil in one way or another. What do you call fossil? Is using less fossil fuels a fossil project? It's a CO-saving project, a climate project. I really believe that, in this transition, we should not go past definitions that are difficult to grasp as fossils or non-fossiles. We've set a goal. That's a reduction in CO emissions. If it contributes to this and there is a market failure and sufficient return and if the relationship between the investment and the CO savings makes sense, it is, in my view, a project that could be eligible. Then I don't know if you call that a fossil or a de-fossilizing or non-fossil project. I want to get rid of that, but it is a project that falls into the scope, as far as I am concerned, and that is why I find this limitation something I should not recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u136	The Minister states that fossil or non-fossil is elusive. I am the first to admit that there is quite a grey area where questions can be asked. But let's be honest, transition is also an elusive and multi-interpretable concept. So if we're going to set the limits there, we can write off half this bill. I find "no fossil" in that context relatively clear. That is why I think it is a very useful amendment. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u137	Well, he doesn't agree with Mr Futselaar that where it's clear, it can be exactly wrong. We can invest in a fossil plant that means we only have to devoid of half of the fossil fuels. That is clearly a project that is related to a fossil installation, but which is extremely useful. I therefore think that Mr Futselaar's definition may be as vague as that contained in the legislative proposal, but his, where he is clear, is sometimes wrong and, where he is clear, is at least correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u138	In practice, I would find it wrong to invest in a coal power plant from Invest-NL in order to reduce the emissions of these coals, but to still allow the power plant to be a coal power plant. I wouldn't like that. We'd better go to real sustainable things. I have to say that perhaps we both know very well what our interpretations are, but that we simply differ on what is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u139	I'm not so sure, but let's not make it too big. I find it very difficult to imagine that a modification to a coal power plant could be eligible for funding from... Maybe Mr Futselaar and I are going to break up a bit in the debate, I cannot embrace his proposals, but if we both face a list, I think we will get closer together than he is proposing. We'll just not take that test again tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u140	Thank you. I now turn to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u141	Thank you, Mr President. It is an honour and a pleasure to be able to present itself as a simple shareholder in this committee as well. As Minister of Finance, I will exercise the shareholdership of Invest-NL on behalf of the State and try to stay as close as possible to whatever we try to do to other state participations. Mr Wiebes has referred to this a number of times. I will, of course, contribute to the safeguarding of public interests, which have also been expressed very widely and quite rightly here. That is quite a closely defined role, because that means that I am discussing the strategy and the appointment and remuneration policy. But as much as I do with other State participations, I am not trying to get in the way of them. I will take this attempt very seriously here too. Mr. Chairman. There are still a very limited number of questions for me, because of the things that were in my folder, Mr Wiebes took a number of them, especially during the last half hour, for which I am very grateful. Let me answer the questions that have remained. For example, there were a few questions about the appointments. Let me say first of all, before I come to Mr Sjoerdsma's question, which I could well imagine, that the cabinet is very pleased with the arrival of Mr Bos and also Mr Never Day. As far as I and the cabinet are concerned, they are extremely well qualified for this complex but very important matter. So I am very pleased with that. Mr Sjoerdsma was right to ask for diversity to be taken into account in the composition of the supervisory board, although I think he meant the board of directors and everyone else. I very much agree with him. By the way, both gentlemen have already applied this to me, without having to ask: diversity in terms of gender, but also diversity in a broader sense. We do this as a government in the state participations not yet perfect, but the trend is certainly the right direction. It is also good to mark here once again what I have often said in the permanent finance committee, namely that state participations do significantly better than market players, both in the area of board members and certainly also in that of supervisory board members. But, Mr. Chairman, you asked for some more English, so: point well duties of Mr. Sjoerdsma. Mr Amhaouch also asked more broadly how we guarantee diversity, knowledge and expertise. That is precisely what we will be paying very close attention to, but it has become clear to me that the intended President-in-Office and the intended Chairman of the Board do not need any encouragement in this respect, because they themselves see very clearly the usefulness and need of diversity, and of course also of quality. Mr. Chairman. Mr Amhaouch also asked how we could keep the focus. That is a question that is very similar to many of the comments made by others. Mr Wiebes already had a formidable comparison of what kind of animal you might see running around here. The objectives will soon be laid down in the law and the statutes after the adoption of the law in the Second and First Chambers. In addition, the additional agreement to be concluded provides, of course, further framework. Within these frameworks, the Management Board then formulates the strategy, which focuses on it. There is still a lot to be said about that, by the way. This also applies to a possible role for the General Court. I'll come back to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. Mr Moorlag asked whether the rulers also agree that compliance is a tough demand. The answer to that is yes. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is a tough requirement for Invest-NL. In addition, Invest-NL is expected to adopt internal compliance guidelines. This is typically such a topic of conversation between Invest-NL and the shareholder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u142	I think I have asked my question too unclear, because what I am concerned about is that companies that Invest-NL wants to invest in are operating in compliance. You can see, for example, in public procurement, that this is a requirement and that it is said: we want to build a viaduct, but we do want a builder to ensure that he works according to the requirements of environmental legislation and labour law, i.e. without exploitation of people. As a criterion in Invest-NL's investment policy, therefore, compliant operation of the credit applicant should be, in my opinion, a hard precondition. My question is whether the Minister shares that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u143	I'd like to think about that. It sounds reasonable in itself and I would certainly like that to be part of a conversation between myself and the Ministry and on the other hand Invest-NL, but the question is then how much effort Invest-NL will have to make to test it. I find it difficult to put that into words at the moment. So we will still have to look at proportionality, but if I could agree with Mr Moorlag in such a way that, in conjunction with proportionality, I would still be able to bring the importance of this into the discussions with Invest-NL, I think we should be able to come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u144	Proportionally, it has to be certain. We don't have to build a mill to grind one bag of wheat. We certainly shouldn't do that, but it could already be that, in their credit application, investors make an explicit statement that they are operating properly. Then you could make a condition: if it is evident that this is not the case, you could attach a fine to it or the credit could be withdrawn. We shouldn't fill that out here, but I've got this kind of construction in mind. So I also have an eye for efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u145	Again, it sounds reasonable, but we will often have to deal with start-ups that would like to promise anything but which often also go through a phase of great tumult and great creativity. So it sounds reasonable, but I also want to prevent us from setting the bar so high in advance that we make it very complicated for Invest-NL or for the companies and businesses looking for access. But precisely because I think it is reasonable, I really want to include this in the dialogue in conjunction with that proportionality. Let me then further decorate it towards Mr Moorlag by saying that we will explicitly include this point in the first evaluation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman asked about the explicit role of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy in the authorisation law and the division of roles. I believe that Mr Wiebes has answered that question in full. Mr Amhaouch asked about the three-year period for monitoring. In the case of state participations, we normally do this every five years, but of course we find this quite exciting with each other; see also the high expectations that exist in the Chamber and also many things that will still have to prove themselves in practice. That is why we have said that we are making five years three years. Then we're gonna do the first evaluation. Well, then it's a good idea to take a little more time after that. We think that's balanced. You could, of course, always conclude at that first evaluation after three years that you think it is going so well that you are going to make the next four years five years or that it looks a little different and that we are still adjusting it. But we have found this reasonable, given what we normally do and also given the special trajectory that we start with each other. Mr. Chairman. Mr Amhaouch also asked whether it was possible to agree a horizon. Then we come back to that periodic evaluation of three and four years, with a total of seven years. Many of Mr Van der Lee's questions on profitability have also been answered by Mr Wiebes. I have another question about tough conditions in the area of CSR for investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u146	Before the Minister goes any further, I believe that Mr Van der Lee has a question about the yield of standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u147	You guessed right, Mr. Chairman. It's also because the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs asked you that question, Minister. Can you at least provide a little more insight into the scope that you are going to take in your role as shareholder in terms of the time limit for achieving that standard return? I'm not interested in exact numbers and data. I must say that, as a Member of Parliament, I do not feel enough about how that is going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u148	It starts with the fact that we want to make Invest-NL a success with each other. And we walk into terra incognita in this respect as well. We do not yet know exactly how some of the things we are discussing here will develop. This also means that I am frivolous at the start, especially when compared to my role in other State participations, by agreeing that there is no standard return at the beginning. I think that's really sensible, because I'm afraid I'd throw away the baby with the bath water right away, that I wouldn't end up having anything because I would've been too strict. That's why we don't consciously do anything at the beginning. Then, as the ride progresses, you will have to see what is real. By the way, we regularly do so with other state participations. Then you can see that in time standard returns are sometimes increased, because there is just a lot of money being made by state participations, or that they are reduced, because large investments need to be made in an important public phenomenon. I would also like to say that as soon as Invest-NL is finally out of business, I will come back to that. But I actually think it is wise not to hit those picket posts now, because I am very afraid that they are going to hinder success, however much I, as a shareholder of course, would like to look at the return in the end. But I think this calls for a little more creativity, also on my part, than usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u149	I just want to say I'm happy about that. This is the answer I would have liked to hear. That takes away some of my concerns. 'Cause if it was too strict, I don't think it's gonna bring what we hope it's gonna bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u150	Fine. The Minister continues with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u151	That enthusiasm is so great that I'm almost wondering if I've promised a little too much. But I do not think that is the case. I have once again come to an issue which I believe Mr Van der Lee has touched on, and I think Mr Moorlag too: CSR as a hard condition for investment and the OECD guidelines. The State expects companies and state participations to operate in accordance with the OECD guidelines. I told you, I'm gonna start the conversation. Maybe it is also good to refer briefly to the explanatory statement, because we have included the so-called best performing standards, an apology for English, President-in-Office of the Council. That, in turn, is the reason, and that is a bit like the previous interrupting debate we had, that we do not think it is necessary to include a separate reference to the OECD guidelines in the law. Mr. Chairman. I come to an even more comprehensive answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u152	Before you proceed, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u153	I would nevertheless like to have a specific opinion on the amendment to item No. 9, which I filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u154	I screamed without a microphone that it's gonna happen. The sound is often played out with me, Mr. Chairman. I should of course have said in advance that I would reply briefly to a number of questions and then come to the amendments. I shall therefore deal with the CSR amendment in this way. Mr. Chairman. I have a few comments for Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. I just said something about the period. He has asked the question, more broadly, in my opinion, quite rightly: what about the scope? Mr Wiebes has already said a few things about this. I think we all understand the following. On the one hand, you could conclude at the end of this debate that the basket has only become fuller and fuller. On the other hand, Mr Amhaouch has quite rightly said that some things were even more important than others. He also asked about the annual reports and their appreciation. He also asked about the possible role of the Court of Auditors. I myself think the following would be reasonable. In my view, it is reasonable to pay explicit attention to the scope and how it has developed and to give up any kind of appreciation every year in the overall annual report which I am presenting to the Empire on state participations and in which all state participations come along. I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma also asked for something in that direction, something similar. I think that's the first picket pole. The second thing that seems sensible to me is to ask the Court of Auditors for advice on the first major evaluation after three years. But then I would like to do the same in the system as in the other State participations, namely not to include this in the law. Because that also suggests something other than what it is. I would, however, like to make a commitment to Mr Amhaouch to involve the Court of Auditors in the initial evaluation. Of course, the scope will be very much a part of that. Mr. Chairman. I think I have dealt with Mr Amhaouch's questions, including his question of who is doing the appreciation. Quite frankly, the annual report is a fantastic book in which it says what beautiful things state participations all do in the service of the public interest. There are then topics highlighted, but it is not an evaluation, state participation for state participation. But I will really appreciate this newest link to the strain of state participations on this particular subject. So I say to him that I will also take this into account in the compilation of the annual reports, in the summary which I send to the Chamber on behalf of the cabinet every year. Then long expected and yet came: the amendments. There were two amendments on CSR standards. In my view, the two proposers also had the idea of perhaps putting them together. They are of course free to do so, but I must advise against these amendments. I am not saying 'with pain in my heart', but I would like to add something to that, because I think the problems they pose are very relevant. Moreover, this is always an explicit part of the dialogue with state participations. I have already promised this in the so-called 'international corporate social responsibility' agreement for insurers, which we have concluded and signed as a cabinet. Only, we do not have one State participation where we have specifically regulated this in the law. So in the system, I don't think it makes any sense. I would like to agree in this way and not settle it by amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u155	I would therefore like to conclude that the amendments to items Nos. 9 and 16 have been dissuaded. Mr Van der Lee is interrupting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u156	I find this rather disappointing. I also think it is a very procedural and not at all substantive argument why you would not want to do so. In addition, I deliberately chose not to anchor it in the law itself, i.e. in the legal text, but to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to set it up by AMvB after consultation with Invest-NL. The Minister has a lot of space and freedom in that. He can also determine the timing himself. The fact that it has never happened in the past with predecessors, I find no reason not to settle it for the future, now that it can. Because we see how important corporate social responsibility is, and we also see that the collapse of these agreements has not yet been fully achieved by many companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u157	I seem to have managed to strike the good news of just now with my comment on this amendment. Look, I just said that from the inspiration and the sincere conviction that CSR standards are extremely important. However, I do have a somewhat more philosophical sigh, because both the Cabinet and the Chamber face the challenge of taking a certain degree of restraint in State participation and not putting every issue back into the law or in any other way into the list of state participations. After all, they are more remote and have a different relationship with the government than a ministry. In the case of the state participations that I am responsible for, corporate social responsibility is really falling apart. This is evident from what they write about in their annual reports, from what I taste during the work visits I make to them and from the conversations I regularly have with the directors and supervisors. Not only do I care, but they do. They didn't need a legal motivation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u158	I know them, too, the champions in the field of CSR, but I also know a lot of those who are far from it. I would like to come back to the Minister's argument. This State participation is unique in a number of respects. It is an activity which the State itself initiates. It is not about buying up a share in an aircraft carrier that happens to have its head office in the Netherlands. In that sense, I find the argument that you look at other state participations and draw one line, not valid. If the main objective of this state participation, which arises as a direct result of public transactions, is also to contribute to solving major social issues, then a little more can be asked in the area of CSR. I think it's very wise to do that per AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u159	For the record, any state participation is unique. I am not just saying that as a shareholder, because I do not want to get in trouble with any of the ladies and gentlemen, but I do. So we shouldn't pretend that this foundation, this newest loot to the tribe, is completely different, and a kind of hors catégory is compared to others. Again, it is a fact that the others, with very different tasks, usually pay a great deal of attention to corporate social responsibility, to a twenty-first century reflection of women and men on board boards and to all kinds of other areas that we as a cabinet and Chamber consider important. Indeed, those who are already involved and are still involved will also take into account the intensity of this debate. So I really prefer to leave this point to them too, and let it be part of the dialogue and then back in the evaluation. That seems to me to be better than doing the other way around and necessarily nailing it into the law now, even if it is via an AMvB. I do not think that is sensible, and I really think that we should exercise a certain degree of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u160	I must say that I do not think the Minister's argument is getting any better. In my opinion, his last argument was: in fact, all state participations are unique, so we should not regard and treat the fact that this is unique as unique. Yeah, it's a special state stake. But if legislation is something, it is a legalization of standards in society. It can be said that society is ready to apply precisely this kind of standards. It's a law specifically about investment. What's more obvious than to include these things? It is an investment for innovation. Then we're not going to dissuade things under the motto: this is new?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u161	Just for the sake of precision, also towards Mr Futselaar. I responded to Mr Van der Lee, who said that this state participation is unique. It seemed appropriate, then, to refer to all the other State participations, which are also unique. Moreover, if we needed this tool to enforce corporate social responsibility, it would be another discussion. But that is not the case. Now that I'm also Mr Futselaar...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u162	Please continue to assess the rest of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u163	Yeah, I was gonna do that. I would like to say that now that I have contented Mr Futselaar on this point, I move on to his next amendment, which dealt with the so-called Roemer norm. I also advise against this amendment, because the legal limitation of the hiring of external experts does not fit within the freedom of enterprise of state participations. I know that the SP believes that we should also transfer many of the things that apply, or in the eyes of the SP, to the state government, to the state participations. However, as has already been said, we are deliberately taking extra distance from state participations. This standard, too, does not apply to other State participations, I think, quite rightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u164	That is the point of the amendment. 13 dissuade. Perhaps it is good to say, for the sake of completeness, that the amendments to the documents Nos. 10, 14 and 15 have already been dissuaded by the Minister of EZK and that the amendment to item No. 19 Judgment Chamber has received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u165	Then I will be in favour, I think, of the amendment to item No. 17. He has tabled an amendment to delete the authorisation to set up subsidiaries. I hope I'm at the right number, Mr. Chairman. I also advise against that amendment, because the structure with an investment and development subsidiary is necessary to distinguish clearly between the various tasks of Invest-NL and the money flows involved. This is also an important condition from the point of view of state aid. Mr. Chairman. I've discussed the standard yield. I think I am at the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u166	There are still a number of amendments that are not provided for in an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u167	That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u168	I call the amendment to item No. 11 on the Wet norming top incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u169	Excuse me. In the otherwise flawless cooperation between Mr Wiebes and me, this is an omission on my part. It is an amendment by Mr Futselaar, but I must also advise against it on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The amendment brings directors of Invest-NL under the Standards Act top incomes, but there are other agreements for state participations. The WNT does not apply to State participations. Will I be there, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u170	I still have the amendment to item No. 12 on the front line for the identification of the investment areas. We do not yet have a final assessment of the amendment to item No. 20 of the CDA on strengthening the parliamentary control of Invest-NL. I do not know which of the ministers can give an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u171	I'm afraid I'm guilty on both subjects, also of making a mess of my folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u172	Mr Wiebes said that he would return to Amendment No 2 in the second term. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u173	Fine. Then we refer that to the second term. Will we also do so with the CDA amendment in part No. 20?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u174	Let me do that, if only to reduce the chaos instead of making it bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u175	Fine. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I look at the members of the Second Chamber for the second term. I call Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both rulers for the answer. I thought it was a very useful debate. I congratulate the Minister of EZK. That's how we know each other. If there's any good arguments, you think about it. I found his explanation of why he wants to discourage my amendment quite strongly. The question is, are you giving something a chance or not? I have decided to withdraw my amendment. I follow the Minister's reasoning. This may lead to new markets and opportunities. I'd feel a shame if that weren't explored, but I'd like to keep my finger on the wrist. I leave it open whether it is still necessary to intervene when I see that it is becoming too much of a collection tank or that large companies, which often run away with the money in other schemes, are taking advantage of it disproportionately again without automatically translating it into additional contributions to solving those societal questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u177	The amendment tabled by Mr Van der Lee (Doc. 10) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u178	I am not going to make that gesture with my other amendment, but I will come back to that in a moment. I would like to turn my first-term opinion into a motion on one point. That's not to close something up, but to give something of direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the potential for a successful start-up phase of Invest-NL will increase if a stronger thematic focus on the investments to be provided is launched at this stage;]] [[Considering that the energy and climate transition will offer many opportunities in the coming years due to the large number of public and private resources involved in these transitions, which will significantly increase the demand for innovative solutions;]] [[Considering that many new technical solutions are needed and possible in these transitions and that they should be able to prove themselves;]] [[calls on the government to provide Invest-NL with the urgent advice that, at the beginning of its existence, the provision of (co-) investment to projects that can potentially contribute to the energy and climate transition should be an important part of investment policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Moorlag, Mr Stoffer and Mr Futselaar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u179	I have the simple question: why? Why this focus? If things are likely to be supported from Invest-NL, appropriate in the whole debate we have had about market failure, standard return and so on, then they are highly likely and are therefore simply addressed. Why this enhanced focus on energy and climate, when you can equally imagine that there are promising things about food quality, there are promising things in the biotech industry and there are promising things in housing? Why this enhanced focus instead of the wider scope: let's go for the promising things, SMEs, start-ups, towards scale-ups. Why this limitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u180	I believe that this is the best way of achieving the broadening. A new organisation cannot look everywhere for promising options. Especially with this great social transition, much is already in motion and much is still going to happen. There are much more promising options in the shorter term, which can strengthen a successful start of Invest-NL, making it easier to achieve this broadening. That is why this is the opinion that we are giving in a compelling way. Then, of course, it's up to the board to see if they're gonna follow up. If they, with the limited staff they have and with the limited time in the beginning, make other choices, it's up to them. But I think it would be wiser to start in the most promising area and to broaden it from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u181	The question to Mr Van der Lee, on which he bases himself, is that this is the most promising sector or area. There are equally promising and socially extremely useful developments within care, within life science, within e-health, from which we can all achieve social returns but for which there are also financing challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u182	I briefly mentioned this in the first term. Let me mention the enterprising state of Mazzucato. On the contrary, the past has shown that where a large-scale government, with all kinds of instruments, encourages all stakeholders in society to start innovative work somewhere, the best potential is to unleash the most impact, most innovations and most new activities with public resources. I see this happening at the moment in the field of climate and energy transition, not only, but to a very large and important extent. That is why I think that area offers additional opportunities for a successful start of Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u183	Thank you. You weren't finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u184	No. I shall continue with the answer given by the Minister of Finance. On one point, I am indeed very satisfied, namely when it comes to the step that he has taken by refusing to impose a standard return as a shareholder at the outset. I think that's important, and I'm very curious how that develops in time. I hope that we will also be actively informed about this. I would also like to make a motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court advises that it is important for the Lower House to have a better understanding of the activities and results of revolving funds in order to be able to properly implement its budget law;]] [[invites the Government to proactively inform the Chamber..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Lee, Veldman, Sjoerdsma, Moorlag, Stoffer and Futselaar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u185	Finally, on another aspect, I found the answer downright disappointing. That's really the subject of MVO. I do not think it is a valid argument, and I am sensitive to valid arguments; hence I withdraw that other amendment. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, given the particular reason for the mandate and the time at which we are now living, to introduce a slightly newer regime for this participation and to give them the space to shape it through AMvB. I think it is really very important for society to do this. It could also be a pilot to try, given future holdings in other areas. So I just don't understand the substantive argument. I think the Minister should take a little more of a step forward from his process thinking. I hope he wants to pick up that glove. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u186	Thank you. Mr Futselaar waived his second term. I call Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u187	Mr. Chairman. If we want to prepare Europe for the future, we will have to start in the Netherlands. There is much going on in the world and the jobs for the future are no guarantee. How do we prepare the Netherlands, as part of Europe, sustainable, innovative, competitive, but also with sufficient jobs? We have talked very often in this house about financing companies; SMEs, start-ups. I think Invest-NL is an important Milestone, to say it in English, to help those companies and to ensure a fair economy. I think that Invest-NL is also going to help with something that we often encounter, namely that there is a lot of money available in that same Europe from which we can draw to meet our goals. The Juncker Fund has already been mentioned in this context, as has the EFSI. The CDA has also deliberately focused on climate and sustainability today. I have already said that in our election programme climate and sustainability, in addition to technology, knowledge and innovation, are very important objectives. I shall be tabling two motions on this in a moment, in support or in accentuation. Mr. Chairman. I keep repeating that SMEs are the norm for us. That is why it is good to hear the Minister say that the 5 million is not soil, but that he is going to look with Invest-NL if I have heard him correctly, he is not going to do it himself how we can give this content with other funds, so that relatively small amounts under 5 million can also support the best gems among the companies. We would like to consider the suggestion of the Minister of Finance to see whether we can amend or improve our amendment. For we attach great importance to a good supervisory role of the Chamber in this important law, also towards the future. So we're gonna see if it's okay with those three years and involving the Court of Auditors. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy and climate transition and financing of sustainable developments are important objectives of Invest-NL;]] [[noting that, in addition to Invest-NL, there are other policy instruments to achieve these objectives;]] [[Whereas a proper alignment of all these policy instruments for the efficient handling of our public funds is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber periodically and in full on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the overall instruments to bring about energy and climate transition developments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Advisory Section of the Council of State considered it necessary to focus on the responsibilities and the scope of the tasks of Invest-NL;]] [[Whereas, according to the Advisory Section of the Council of State, the legislative text is much wider than the explanatory memorandum suggests;]] [[Considering the importance of the effective use of public funds by Invest-NL for societal tasks;]] [[Considering that the transition to an economy and society with fewer greenhouse gas emissions is one of the greatest societal challenges of this time and that the current proposal allows Invest-NL not to use this or to a very limited extent;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a general measure of governance under Article 4 (3) in which Invest-NL's commitment to the social transition statements under Article 4 (1) is developed in a more directional weighting framework, with a strong commitment to the societal transition statement in relation to climate and energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u188	Thank you, Mr President. A movement has been made in terms of ensuring corporate social responsibility and compliance. But I do agree with Mr Van der Lee, because I also find it disappointing. Corporate social responsibility and compliance, that's just a public interest. I do not think it is acceptable, with the utmost flexibility, for investments to be made to companies that do not operate properly or that do not or do not sufficiently adhere to the standards and standards of corporate social responsibility. I think we should safeguard that public interest. The argument that we did not regulate this under other laws could have been opposed in the past to the Children's Law of Van Houten. We would still not have had social and labour legislation. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Invest-NL will provide funding from public funds;]] [[whereas it is therefore desirable, in the public interest, that funding be provided exclusively to organisations acting in a socially responsible way and in compliance, inter alia, through compliance with legislation and the application and respect of international standards for corporate social responsibility;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure this public interest in Invest-NL's investment and financing policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u189	Mr. Chairman. I would stress that such a test must be carried out in an efficient manner. I fully endorse that. A second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is increasingly recognised that prosperity growth is more than mere GDP growth and should also reflect environmental and social aspects of prosperity;]] [[considers that Invest-NL's return on investment should therefore not be measured solely by financial return on investment;]] [[calls on the government to co-evaluate the investment result of Invest-NL on the basis of the indicators of the Broad Prosperity Monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u190	Mr. Chairman. I note, however, that I appreciate the fact that it has been indicated by the directors that a market-based hard funding standard has not been laid down in concrete, especially in the initial phase. I'd like to express that appreciation. Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas consulting by NGOs, trade unions and industry can contribute to the achievement of the objectives and functioning of Invest-NL;]] [[calls on the government to give and ensure an advisory role in governance to these organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u192	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u193	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering my questions and the explanations given. In particular, thanks and congratulations to the Minister for Economic Affairs for his clear explanation that there is not necessarily a need for tension between market failure and a minimally positive return, but that it can also go hand in hand. As far as I am concerned, he has given a decent answer to the question of how you are going to assess that and when there is structural failure. This can indeed be done if there is coordination failure or regulatory failure, especially if we hold regular elections and then move forward again. It is also clear that it is not a one-on-one investment weighting, but that you have to look at the bigger picture: where are the problems in the market? Thank you also for the commitment that Invest-NL will not do everything by itself, but that it will also be carefully examined which partners are already there and which partners we can use. It is also good to hear that both directors clearly indicate that Invest-NL is just getting out where it can and that, once the market has been created, the market is going to do it itself. Thank you for the commitment we have made very strongly with each other that we are going to examine whether DVI can be placed on the market. That saves another motion. I would, however, like to ask the Minister on what time he can inform the Chamber about the investigation into the marketing of DVI.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u194	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u195	I myself forgot to express my appreciation for this commitment. But I had the same question, so I am glad that Mr Veldman is asking it. I'm also curious about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u196	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u197	The Minister for Economic Affairs also replied to the scope. I am glad to hear that, as far as he is concerned, the scope is such that we take advantage of the opportunities where they are. It is not for nothing that several policy objectives have been set out in the annexes to the agreement that are to be concluded. I understand why Mr Van der Lee is tabling this motion and what he was exchanging with the Minister in the debate, but I would regret it if a focus on energy and climate now to be applied would lead SMEs and start-ups to a sort of second plan and if large companies are ready to step into the energy transition, run away with the spoils, to put it that way. Because I think there are more promising things, such as biotech, life sciences and healthcare innovation. Right there are start-ups that deserve attention. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Invest-NL has both the task of supporting risky business activities in the field of major transition missions and strengthening SMEs, including start-ups and the expansion of scale-ups to larger companies;]] [[Whereas the potential for a successful start-up phase of Invest-NL is increasing if a good thematic focus is put in place at this stage;]] [[Whereas SMEs are the backbone of the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the government to provide Invest-NL with the intrusive advice to strengthen SMEs active in the market, including start-ups and the expansion of scale-ups to larger companies, to be an important task from the start of Invest-NL,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35123-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u199	Thank you. Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u200	Mr President, thank you. Thanks, of course, to both ministers for the first-term response. It is clear that this particular pet, as Minister Wiebes called it, cannot count on a shortage of friends. That also makes sense, because if you can do that much, then you have to start loving it. Mr. Chairman. A number of people have suggested in the first term to give the focus a little more direction in the initial phase. I have a certain degree of complementarity with Mr Van der Lee and Mr Veldman. That's good to see. I co-signed Mr Van der Lee's motion because I also see that the focus on transition in the field of energy and climate is very important. This also fits in well with what the cabinet is doing when it comes to the climate agreement. The second thing I would like to mention is that I am hopeful of what Minister Wiebes said about the talks with the European Commission. I hope he will keep the Chamber informed of these talks, especially in the event that they would be unexpected and unexpectedly different. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to DVI, as did colleagues Van der Lee and Veldman. But I would like to call Minister Hoekstra to the following. Mr Van der Lee has just graciously admitted that certain arguments on the part of the cabinet have convinced him to withdraw an amendment. That is what the debate is meant for; that is what you can change your mind about. Now it is the challenge for the cabinet and Minister Hoekstra to look again at Mr Van der Lee's amendment and consider these arguments again and then perhaps gradually change their minds in the second term and take that view with it. I'm just looking at the officials; I think that's gonna be all right. Finally, Mr President. CDA colleagues have said a few things about the Court of Auditors. I can't really judge how that's gonna work out right now. I get the idea. This is not only assessed by the Cabinet, but is also submitted to the Court of Auditors. Now Minister Hoekstra has made another suggestion as to how he would like to see it different. To be honest, I didn't think that was a illogical suggestion. I would also like to ask the Court of Auditors whether they can find an acceptable solution to the problems they have identified. I hope that this can be done, too, because it is a bit of an unusual style figure, because then we can weigh it neatly side by side. I would welcome that as a member of the Chamber and as a member of my group. Mr President, I would like to end by thanking you for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u201	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. As far as the request to the ARK, the General Court, is concerned, I believe that this can indeed be done, but tomorrow we will have to submit to the General Court ourselves whether they want to give an opinion, including on that amendment. That will have to be done before Tuesday, when the votes are on the law and the amendments. I shall suspend for five minutes so that the ministers can prepare for the second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u202	I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u203	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I owed Mr Futselaar a reply. I would just like to say that in Mr Futselaar I discovered a very careful reader of the bill. I would like to congratulate him on that, because it is true that there is the possibility of an AMvB. But the AMvB is not meant to restrict tasks, because then the problem that I have explained and which I will come back to at the motion in part No. 24 of the CDA. It's meant for other things. For example, it is about adding a different task, then it is useful to be able to set rules with AMvB. But it is clearly not appropriate for the task field, because then we are facing the EMU problem. But again, I found this very sharp. Another question that is still alive is from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u204	An interruption by Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u205	It's nice to get a compliment, not from that, but I'm having trouble following the answer completely. This option for an AMvB is to add a task but is not about the task package? That's what I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u206	Not about the field. Not on the sectors, not on what the additional agreement is intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u207	But about something...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u208	For example, an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u209	Let Mr Futselaar do his interrupting, then the answer comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u210	I thought the Minister's explanation was rather concise; let me put it this way. What exactly is the AMvB option meant for? Can the Minister explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u211	Oh, yeah. Tasks can be added. There is an amendment that still needs to be put to the vote in order to possibly limit those tasks to financing tasks and not to subsidising tasks. Things can be added to it, and it can be done. We do not yet know those tasks for tasks where further rules need to be laid down. Then you want to be able to do that in lower regulation. Theoretically, it is also possible to insert what the supplementary agreement is about into an AMvB. That was Mr Futselaar's wish, and it is not a very strange wish either. I'm not saying we're going in a direction that I find abject in advance. The starting point is that Invest-NL must be an independent institution. This is necessary in order to link up with co-financing and European programmes. It is also important in the context of Eurostat's assessment that the capital charge is a financial transaction and not a public issue. That's important for the balance. That doesn't understand with an AMvB. So another solution has been chosen that tries to find the middle between an organization that can perform a task with its own responsibility at a distance, and a government that sets up a framework for control. I recognize Mr Futselaar's intentions, but the remedy he is offering is not appropriate in this case. That means is suitable for other purposes, but we don't have those other targets right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u212	Just a little more detail, though. If I understand the Minister correctly, the operative part of the amendment can actually be, there is a possibility for an AMvB, but does not lead to the objective I describe in the description of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u213	I'll just grab the subscription.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u214	The amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u215	Because I would also like to answer precise questions. Let me check the operative part: "... requires that the investment domains in which Invest-NL is active are determined at AMvB." It is possible to do so at AMvB with front suspension procedure, only then we have other problems. It's not impossible to do this, you just have a lot of bullshit in other areas. Mr Futselaar's intention is not wrong. The law offers the opportunity to arrange things at AMvB, it is only extremely unwise and I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u216	That is why Amendment No 12 by Mr Futselaar is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u217	Sure. One more question has been asked, though very and passerby. Mr Sjoerdsma wanted to be informed. When the eyebrows went up, I interpreted it as a question. The answer is: that will happen. I shall now move on to the motions. The first motion in part No. 21 by Mr Van der Lee, who talks about the urgent opinion to make the provision of co-investment to projects that can potentially contribute an important part of investment policy. I think this is a sensible motion, because we all feel that this is becoming an important part of our clogs. There's a great need. We can also see that the provision of funding helps to get things moving, also in an attractive way for citizens and businesses. I also appreciate the motion for what it doesn't say. It says "an important part" and not necessarily "the most important part." Nor does it say that it should become an important part of 'the portfolio', because that would be an obligation to achieve results that we cannot undertake. It says "let it be an important part of investment policy." Furthermore, he did not make a difference in ranking to the second pillar, but pointed out that this was an important point which had to be given forcefully. With that interpretation, I think it is entirely up to the Chamber to judge it, all the way within the framework as the cabinet sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u218	That is why the motion for a resolution in part No. 21, therefore, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u219	Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 22 seems to me to be in agreement. The phrase "also in between annual reports" indicates a very short response time of the Chamber, but if that is the big wish, so can it. I could have imagined that we would do that with the annual reports, but if it also has to be between the annual reports, I will try to serve the Chamber. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u220	The motion in part No. 22 also has judgment in Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u221	Then the motion to part No. 23. It requests periodic and comprehensive reports on the effectiveness of the overall instruments and so on. Yes. Okay. I want to give that judgment Chamber, but with a small package leaflet. The Cabinet will do so as far as possible in the context of the cycle as required by the Climate Act and where otherwise, for example in accordance with the regular reports of Invest-NL in the framework of the State participation policy, as far as possible in flows and cycles that exist. In that case definitely judge Chamber. I think I've just explained why I'm moving the CDA's motion on piece number one. 24 should be dissuaded. We also discussed this in the debate. My colleague will say something about the motion on item No. 25 and on the motion in part No. 26. At the motion in part No. 27 I would like to follow my line in the debate, I say to Mr Moorlag, the author of this motion. I am willing to give the suggestion to Invest-NL's management to be, but I really think it is up to Invest-NL to organise its own stakeholder management. Maybe it has completely different ideas about that, maybe even better ideas. Maybe a modern digital network society will start. I do not want to prescribe this in this way and therefore I advise against this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u222	Do I understand correctly that the Minister says he will pass that wish on to Invest-NL?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u223	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u224	If no red or yellow flags are raised there, the Minister will not raise red or yellow flags either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u225	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u226	Would the Minister undertake to inform us of the outcome of that discussion with Invest-NL?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u227	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u228	Then I'll withdraw the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u229	Since the Moorlag motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u230	Then I would like to say that the cabinet is very pleased with how the motion in part No. 28 has been formulated. This is indeed a very important second pillar of policy. Here too, the author of the motion has chosen his words very wisely and carefully. I'll leave these to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u231	This only raises one question for me, because I think there is a contradiction in the recital saying that there should be a stronger thematic focus, while the operative part refers to companies that are active in the market. I do not know how to understand the message of this motion. Maybe the Minister can help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u232	The considerations of Mr Veldman, the soul stirrings he put there on paper, are on his behalf. I understand all kinds of things from his considerations, but I respond to the request to the government, and I think that is a very orderly request. I see it as support and I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u233	Mr. Veldman, your motion has received judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u234	Yes, but perhaps I can help Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u235	Ah, we're gonna play it through the band.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u236	If he reads back the Acts and I can still amend the motion, he will see that I have spoken orally about a good thematic focus, not a stronger one. There's only one question left for me. I don't know if the minister's ready. I thanked him for the commitment about DVI and I asked him when, at what time, he could inform the Chamber about the investigation he is about to start to bring DVI to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u237	I have no idea yet, because this is a promise that is still very young. I'll inform the Chamber about the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u238	Fine. Then the Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u239	Mr President, thank you. I shall begin with the CDA amendment, which I mistakenly lost in the pile. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked about it. I am enthusiastic about a lot of the CDA's amendment, but I think it would be wise to change it a little bit on the points of my reply to just now. At the risk of repeating myself, I have made clear what would be wise in the field of evaluation. I have also made clear what the situation is with three instead of the usual five years. I have also made it clear that we could also record that we are reporting annually. The Court of Auditors has an independent power of investigation at all. I would like to agree with the members of the CDA Group that the Cabinet is asking the Court of Auditors to participate in that triennial evaluation, but not to include it in the law, because that is a bit of a complicated figure. I believe that we should be able to go a long way along the lines as expressed by the CDA Group and as I have responded to them. If necessary, we can also help with the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u240	The amendment as it stands has therefore been dissuaded. I'm gonna take a look at the CDA, see what the M.O. is. The Minister made a commitment in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u241	We are going to consider the Minister's suggestions and see if we can amend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u243	That is the request to do so in good time, if the Court of Auditors has to deliver an opinion on it before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u244	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Van der Lee. He was very gold-plated on one side but was not convinced on the other. That was also preceded by the fact that he had been persuaded by Mr Wiebes. That was, of course, a narcissistic offense. I am going to say some ugly things first, and after that I may have found a better solution than the amendment. What we really need to protect ourselves from is the policy of good intentions. Participations are best equipped to determine a lot of these things themselves. That is one of the reasons why the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, for example, are able to keep up with this sort of thing. This is the systematic way of putting it down to participations. It is about corporate social responsibility and not about corporate legal responsibility. As someone with Calvinist roots, I would like to say to Mr Van der Lee, who I think has a very different background: this is also very Dutch, very sola scriptura. As long as it's on paper, it exists. In my view, the practice is precisely that state participations do a lot of good things on their own, and that is also true here. I think the following would be helpful. Moreover, at the request of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I have already promised that we will come up with a plan later this year on how we are going to look at state participation policies in full. I am already going to include this in the Millions Note. By the way, that's a much longer cycle. And I would like to respond to my own point about uniformity if we include the broader issue of CSR and if we look more broadly at how state participations have been able to relate to CSR and to what extent additional measures may or may not be possible, whether legally or not. I don't want to anticipate that, because I think you should let that evaluation do the job. Anyway, that either comes from my assumption, so it is true that the participations do indeed do and do not need that legal incentive, or that Mr Van der Lee may get 14 for the price of one if I prove wrong. Then I think we'll do it in a proper way. To be honest, it is also really in line with what I believe I have agreed with the Permanent Committee on Finance with regard to the wider evaluation. If Mr Van der Lee could live with that, I think we have come a long way from each other again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u245	Thank you. I would like to look at Mr Van der Lee and perhaps Mr Futselaar, because they have both tabled an amendment on that point. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u246	I don't really want to hurt anyone. He wasn't meant to be. I think it was just a justified, let me say,'review' of the lack of quality of content of certain arguments. I find the gesture made by the Minister interesting in itself, but I have to discuss it in my group and also with my colleague Bart Snels. Then I will assess at a later stage what that means for the amendment. I'll take a small advance at the same time by saying that I think it's a missed chance that they won't take care of it now. I really need to think about it, because it's a gesture in itself, but I'm just gonna, uh, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u247	To brooding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u248	To brooding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u249	Thank you. Then the amendment remains in respect of item No. 9 in stand, even if it's not recommended. Mr Futselaar (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u250	I am far too afraid to disappoint Mr Sjoerdsma if we do not allow the Chamber to vote on it, so that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u251	Good. Then the amendment in respect of item No. 16 standing and that is also not recommended. I think there are two more motions for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u252	Yes. The motion in part No. 25 therefore calls for investment policy to be included. That, I think, is another complicated figure. I think I have also tried to indicate this in the reply. I believe that my commitment on the one hand was more generous than the motion and, on the other hand, the piece on the right of guarantee and proportionality is not in this. So I'd like to dissuade the motion. I believe that we could really come a long way here with the commitment I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u253	I am sensitive to the argument of proportionality, but I think I also indicated in the explanatory statement to the motion that I am not at all in favour of organising some bureaucratic process. In the core, it just comes down to the following. "We provide funding from public funds, and if you request that funding from us, we think it is perfectly normal and legitimate that you should be aware of public interests." In the first term, the Minister said: yes, but it may sometimes be that start-ups and scale-ups do not have that much in common. I understand that, too. Of course, you have to distinguish between those who operate stupidly and those who operate naughty. If you operate stupidly, you can learn from mistakes, but if you operate badly, it should have consequences. I think that this really should be a cornerstone of government policy and that, if you make public funds available, you should say: we ask you to abide by the rules and that you also act socially nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u254	I thought I had tasted in the debate that we were relatively close together. I wanted to be practical, pragmatic, for example towards Mr Van der Lee with the evaluation and towards Mr Van der Lee and others with the yield of standards. I also think that we should be practical here. The motion speaks of 'only'; it says 'only funding is provided', without the piece of proportionality being reflected in it. Then we are doing exactly that which I do not think is helpful in this form. I think we were relatively close to a solution with what Mr Moorlag and I have exchanged in the debate. I would like to give him his motion, but it cannot be this one as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u255	Mr Moorlag, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u256	If that gap is not that big, then I am prepared to delete the word 'only'. I note that it is not an amendment and therefore it will not be formal legislation. It has therefore been included in this motion without any form whatsoever. In this respect, I believe that we can come together if the Minister extends a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u257	However, this calls for a number of stretch movements on the part of Mr Moorlag, because the text of the motion should also state that the public interest is desirable, that funding is considered and that funding is preferably given to organisations that undertake socially responsible activities. And then there should also be something about proportionality, because what I am, of course, afraid of is that we are now loading a lot of our good intentions on the Invest-NL sign, and I think that the number of assignments is not very small. That would therefore require further tightening up of the text, precisely along the lines of the exchange of views that Mr Moorlag and I had. If he were willing to do so, I would look at it with kindness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u258	Finally, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u259	I'm gonna tinker with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u260	Fine. Then we have the motion in part no. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u261	Yes. You could say that for the motion in part no. 26 to an even greater extent is what we have just exchanged on the amendment, because this is precisely what was agreed in the discussion with the standing committee. That Monitor Brede Welvaart came by last year on Responsible Day. The Court also found that these are indicators and that everything in them is still in its infancy. At that time, however, we were asked: can we have a broader reflection on this in order to take a next step, including this year's Millions Note? I think that is wise, but I really don't think we would be doing Invest-NL any favors if we put this state participation on the basis of those indicators, without taking any further steps. I therefore hope that Mr Van der Lee and Mr Moorlag will see that. This might well be something at a later stage, but we just haven't gotten there with that Monitor Brede Prosperity yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u262	I interpret this in such a way that the motion in part No. 26 is not recommended. Mr Van der Lee on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u263	I regret, however, that this is a little flexible interpretation of the operative part, because the documents already refer to indicators such as 'contribution to CO reduction' and 'contribution to employment', but these are also indicators that are included in that broad concept of prosperity. That doesn't seem to be at odds. So maybe a little less rigid and a little more flexible interpretation of the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u264	I could very well live with it if we agreed that we would encourage Invest-NL to report on these criteria as well, but it says here: 'calls on the government to co-evaluate the investment result', which is, in the case of state participations, something financial 'of Invest-NL based on the indicators'. Then we are going to throw two things into a pile and, as far as I am concerned, we are also going to throw prematurely. With all due respect, this is precisely the discussion I had with the permanent Chamber of Finance, including on state participation. There too it has been said: okay, it has to be done, but it has to be done gradually, and we are separating between the strict financial and what else we want on the basis of those criteria. So it's not the cabinet's unwillingness either. My impression is also that Mr Snels was positive about the handling of this subject on my side on last year's day of responsibility. We changed that again. Then I made him that promise about next year's Prince's Daypieces, but I don't think that's helpful. I do not think this is helpful for this state participation in the process and, frankly, not for the other state participations either. I would therefore like to ask the gentlemen to take place on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u265	A brief point from Mr Moorlag on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u266	Would it help if we put the word "partly" in capital letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u267	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u268	No, because I don't think that's gonna change anything about the explanation. I've just tried to indicate that that's the hand-out I can do. Of course, I can certainly ask Invest-NL to report on this. However, I am concerned about clustering and also premature clustering, which means that the government must also assess the investment result on the basis of these indicators. Frankly, it is certainly not the case that GroenLinks' financial spokesman is not already running ahead of the troops, but Mr Van der Lee still has quite a sprint to it. I honestly think that's just not helpful, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u269	Okay, thank you. Then we have come to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u270	The Invest-NL Authorisation Act will be voted on Tuesday, as will the amendments and motions.
