ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Punishment and Protection Bill. We're working on the first term on the side of the Chamber. I welcome the Secretary of State for Legal Protection again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u2	I call Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the vast majority of people in prison, they will return to society at some point. I think we all think it should be done safely. Prisoners must be ready to participate in society well prepared so that they do not go wrong again. It's not easy to achieve that goal. This is the best step by step, from deprivation of liberty to restriction of liberty to genuine freedom in society. At the same time, that society demands satisfaction, retribution. The Punishment and Protection Bill is trying to serve both ends. And that's pretty complex, because these targets sometimes run counter to each other. Some elements of this bill are good for my group. We are less enthusiastic about other elements. I'll go over those elements with you. Mr. Chairman. This proposal aims to contribute to a credible and legitimate criminal justice system. Essentially, there are three lines. Firstly, this proposal aims to reward good behaviour during the sentence. And bad behavior leads to consequences. That's how the convict will really have to earn his leave. Secondly, a responsible return from detention is being carried out right from the start. In contrast to the situation as it was, leave is always linked to a concrete reintegration goal. Finally, I would like to come to the third line: punishments must satisfy society. That's why the parole is limited to two years. Mr. Chairman. In the view of the prison system, we have already opted for a more personalised approach. Scientific research shows that a safe return to society is served by a gradual, step-by-step return to that society. This bill is partly in line with that. The director of the establishment will carry out a screening of the convicted person and will draw up a tailor-made plan on that basis. That plan describes behavioral goals, the activity programme and any care a convicted person may need to achieve those behavioral goals. It also makes it clear early on whether, for example, the probation or the municipality is necessary to achieve that change of behaviour and ensure a safe return. The leave system is therefore adapted to that. Whether a convicted person is in need of leave is assessed at once. Can someone go to his parents' or his child's for a weekend? Can he apply for a passport outside the walls? Is he allowed to work outside of prison? As a result, leave is more focused on reintegration. The convict can go through leave and prepare for a life outside the walls, and I think that's a good step. Mr. Chairman. I do have a question about that. Several people have expressed that concern. In practice, many convicts have an addiction or restriction. Those convicts need more care and guidance than other convicts if they want to return safely to that society. During the written round of this legislative proposal, my group asked for the funding of all this tailor-made work. The Minister's reply in the report was about cell capacity and extramural work, but the care aspect is absent. It is precisely this concern that I believe is essential for people with disabilities or addiction. How is the Minister going to ensure that there are sufficient care professionals for this group? And how's he gonna pay for all that? Mr. Chairman. In addition, I believe it is crucial that the probation is physically present in prison. They can then work together with the prison staff on the return of the convicted person to society. This bill does not introduce this method, but it does provide a basis for it. I think that is an important aspect, but we must do it right. There are already pilots in a number of establishments to try out this method. Does the Minister agree with me that the probation should be physically present in every facility? Are the resources available for this? I would like an explanation from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another positive point: the exchange of information with the municipalities and the parole board. It is necessary in order to be able to organise customization per convicted person. So far there has been no legal basis for this. We have discussed this several times in the Chamber, and we have also found that this is problematic. The proposal now provides that legal basis: Article 18a of the bill. That's a good step. It is also a good thing that the Minister has taken the criticism of the Council of State on this point. The possibility for the Minister to lay down further rules on the exchange of information under ministerial arrangements has been deleted. It must be so that the Chamber has good control over it, so it must be either in the law or in the AMvB. I think that is a sensible choice from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's one thing I'm less positive about: conditional release. Another important part of the legislative proposal concerns the Maximisation of that conditional release. Indeed, in society there is sometimes incomprehension about that vi. People wonder why someone who gets 18 years is actually only in prison for 12 years. It is indeed important that society trusts in the way we punish in the Netherlands. After all, that provides support. But it's no secret: D66 didn't have to maximize the vi. I have two reasons for that. Firstly, research carried out by Erasmus University shows that the current system is actually working quite well, and that the granting of vi is not already an automatism, even if it is granted by law, but these are two different things. Professionals attach conditions to the vi. The vi is therefore an opportunity to continue to control the behaviour of the condemned outside the walls. If you don't stick to those terms, you'll go back. I therefore think that the need for this part of the legislative proposal is actually limited. Now the soup in the bill is not being eaten so terribly hot. For most prisoners two years vi will indeed be sufficient. And indeed, with well-targeted leave during detention, which we are about to start quickly, there is a lot to solve. On that point, the Minister proposes that, in a period of 12 to 36 months before you qualify for conditional release, you should be able to go on long-term leave. In my introduction, I indicated that a gradual, step-by-step return is important. The question then is whether that period of 12 to 36 months is sufficient. Especially in the case of really long-term punishment, I think it would be wise to extend that period a little bit, so that we also have the opportunity to work seriously with those people. I would like to hear whether the Minister agrees with me and how he looks at that point. The spread of that period is also important, because long-term punishments can start thinking about whether they want to go with vi. That brings me to my second reflection on this part: the calculative behaviour, as it has also been appointed by several colleagues. By shrinking the stick behind the door, it becomes more tempting to try to get out of that vi, especially if the probation period is renewable. Some people may simply not feel like all that supervision when they do need it. Both the Christian Union, the SP and my group have asked questions about this in the written round, and I found the Minister's answer somewhat lean. He doesn't expect it and two years of extra sitting is not negligible, was the short summary of his reaction. That answer doesn't quite convince me. In my view, we really must try to prevent calculative behaviour leading to an uncontrolled return to society. And yes, that is not excluded now, for example, I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. And yes, you have no guarantee, but I think we are at risk of increasing that risk on this point. With extra room for leave for the vi, that risk will be reduced as far as I am concerned. Hence my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u4	Interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u5	At the point of that calculating behavior of the condemned; people trying to get out under a vi. This indeed increases the chance of unaccompanied and untreated ticking time bombs back in society. But also at the point of tightening up the vi at that other point, that you can only be released with conditional release when you have shown good behavior in detention. Does Mr Groothuizen share the concern that this whole bill might actually lead to more unaccompanied, untreated people, for whom it is not a stick behind the door that, if they go wrong, they will return to detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u6	I think it's possible. If someone behaves badly and you would then delete that whole vi, you run the risk of kicking someone out without treatment. There is always a weighting in that, because you can say that if someone goes very seriously in the wrong, it is also a bit strange not to draw any consequences. This is a solution which I see and which, in my view, is quite often applied in practice, or which I saw come by myself. Suppose someone committed a very serious criminal offence in an institution. Then he can be tracked down, prosecuted and tried separately, resulting in a new sentence with a new vi. Then you can look at how you want to shape the customization for the old vi. So I get your point. I cannot completely take away your concern either, but I do think there are smart ways to meet it in practice with tailor-made solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u7	I hope so. I do think this bill will increase the chances that we'll have a few more people who don't have v.i. Go. It is also explicitly the goal that fewer people go on conditional release and that we shorten that period, thus increasing the calculating behavior. Will Mr Groothuizen at least come with me to ask the Minister's commitment to keep a very close eye on this particular point and to identify the possibilities we can do, which we can think of as a stick behind the door for people who are still dangerous for themselves, for others and for society as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u8	I think that's wise. I think we are all struggling a bit with the idea that we should try to foresee what will happen to some very complicated cases in the future. Sometimes you can draw on your own experience and sometimes from reports. I don't have a glass ball either. I understand the risks. I always think it would be wise to see if this bill, should it be passed, does what we expect and what the side effects are. I think it would be wise to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr Grothuizen continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to talk about something else: the role of the D.A.'s office. The convict must earn the vi. In the bill, the Public Prosecutor's Office decides on this and decides on what conditions. The prosecution can therefore withdraw that freedom if those conditions are not complied with. I note, moreover, that the Minister has listened to the Council's case law on this point. Following the letter of amendment, it is now also possible for convicted persons to submit a second request for conditional release. I think this is a sensible step which makes the system more flexible and tailor-made. But back to the D.A.'s office. It may seem a logical choice to give that power to the D.A.'s office, but to be honest, I do wonder. First of all, the D.A. doesn't have all that information. After all, it lies with the institution or the parole board and the municipality. Secondly, in my opinion, it does not fit in well with the idea of removing the execution from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the USB Act that has entered into force. I would like an explanation from the Minister of his choice to make the Public Prosecutor the central authority, because I do not think that is the most logical choice in advance. Mr President, I will conclude. Finally, I have a question about screening. The Minister stated in the report that the municipality is not obliged to get the five basic conditions such as housing and work in order. It seems to me that this is necessary for a safe return, which takes place in that municipality quite often. Can the Minister explain why this is not an obligation? Would he perhaps reconsider making this an obligation? I would also like an explanation from the Minister on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u11	An interruption by Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u12	I do indeed have another question for Mr Grothuizen. I share his concerns about limiting conditional release and wondered if he would be willing to think with us, to find other ways to do enough about resocialization, for example, to maintain penitentiary programs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u13	I think we're holding the detention phase in this bill. You have tabled an amendment which, in fact, I have a little bit of a feeling that it ignores a point raised by the researchers, namely that the penitentiary programmes and conditional release sometimes do not match well and that at the preliminary stage you have more freedoms than at the conditional release stage. The Minister will correct me if I see it wrong, but I think this is the point that the researchers have raised. I think your amendment is a little out of line with that. I'd like to think with you. I think several people are looking for a solution to the same problem that we all see, but I don't know if the direction of solution you point out is the best one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u14	Of course it could be. There are several roads that lead to Rome. The reason why my group considers it important to keep at least the penitentiary programmes is that if you limit the conditional release you will have even more opportunities to start working on a safe return on time through the penitentiary programmes. In my view, these same researchers also conclude that in most cases customization simply leads to good solutions, so it is not a very big problem. They do say this is a point of interest, so I'm going along with that. I would like to continue the exchange of views. There are several roads that lead to Rome, but at least this is a motivation for us to use that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u15	I don't think we're that far apart. In any case, I have already asked the Minister how he looks at extending the period of long-term leave, so that, especially in the case of really long-term punishments, you have a somewhat longer period of time to start practicing with that step outside before the vi actually arrives. I think that's a bit of a match for Mr. Van den Berge's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you. I call Mr Van Wijngaarden, who will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to outline how I see this bill in a general sense and then come to some more specific questions. You don't just go to jail. You gotta do something for it. It is good to bear that in mind in this debate. People don't just sit there. Prisons are, in a sense, a form of charity of society towards people who have more or less wronged that same society. By serving his sentence, society settles an open account with the unsub. This is reflected in U.S. court rulings, because this time starts with the words, excuse for English, "in the name of the American people." But prison is, of course, about more than settling a score between the perpetrator and the victim alone. Punishment does not come to an end unless society is permanently protected. That protection is literally as long as someone's inside. A much more difficult goal is the continued protection of society by raising people within the prison walls. This debate is not just about how we complete the prison sentence in a way that best serves the safety of society. There is another question: how do we ensure that prison sentences remain in line with the feelings that live within the legal community? The next of kin to serious crimes I've spoken to was hard to understand that the perpetrator of the crime that was committed to their loved ones was already released prematurely. This law is therefore justified and justified by the reprehensible practice that a person who, for example, had been sentenced for 20 years could be released after more than 13 years. It's a good thing that at least 20 years in prison you can only get out after 18 years and then only in good behavior. No freedom without responsibility and more retribution to the condemned on behalf of the victim and society are both of great importance to the VVD. The conditional release of automatically due to cell shortages in the 1980s was introduced into the Dutch law. That was once as far as we're concerned, but never again. Cell deficits are no reason to release people early. Projections of cell capacity should therefore be conservative so that there is buffer capacity to lock up prisoners. Can the Minister confirm this conservative approach? Should there ever be any cell shortages, the cabinet should, if it is up to the VVD, only rent cells across borders. Anyway, let's just assume that's not necessary anymore. I am also asking this question against the backdrop of signals from the prison world itself that it is not always possible to lock prisoners together, for example because one of the prisoners has a serious drug problem and then it is not wise to lock them up together. Mr. Chairman. It's only in prison that you feel the value of freedom. If, after a long time, convicts could be released without any preparation, accidents could happen. We are therefore not opposed to conditional release as such, but that someone who has 21 years in prison would need 7 years to prepare for freedom we do not believe. Two years is also good for most people for the VVD. Convicts have been eligible for conditional release since the introduction of the Code of Criminal Law in 1886. The problem is that this is now perceived as a self-evident right by prisoners, which also benefits the most severely punished. The longer your punishment, the greater your benefit. Quantum discount on murderers' jail time, that's the current regime. This results in erosion of confidence in the entire criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u18	There is an interruption by Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u19	It all started out okay. GroenLinks also believes that repression and prevention should both play a role, both of which are objectives of punishment, but I find this difficult. If we say that the problem is social support for the way we are punishing now, I have difficulty with the words you are choosing now. You say it's a present for inmates and it's not all right. If we want more support, we need to explain why we are doing that conditional release. We do that to make a safe return possible. We do that to prevent recurrence. We do that to make society safe. So if we want to work on support, we should choose different words here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u20	Of course, I choose my own words. We are not in one group either, so it is not surprising that we choose different terms. However, I think that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agree on one thing, namely the fact that this conditional release is in itself very useful. That's exactly what I just reported. It is a question of whether it should always last a third of the whole sentence. I have just asked: does a 21-year-old person really need 7 years to re-socialize again? Let's just call it man and horse, as Mrs Van Toorenburg did: you don't need that many years. That's one. And it's come about because of cell shortages. That's two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u21	I am pleased with this answer, because this creates room. Indeed, it may not always have to be six or seven years, but this bill limits it to two years. I think we can find each other in giving more room in the legislation so that the judge can deliver customization. If we agree, I am happy to amend my amendment to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u22	No, I don't think we're gonna find each other on that. I think two years is enough. That's exactly what I just reported. And we shouldn't just do it, not even GroenLinks, as if it only starts with those two years. This whole proposal means a lot, including for implementation practice. I'll get to that in a minute. He's gonna have to work with that detention phaser. That's a tough job for the whole chain, for all those responsible. That means you've had to work with those prisoners much earlier than those two years. Let us spend that time within the prison walls as best we can. I would also like to put forward proposals for this. This conditional release is socially perceived as a kind of automatism and by inmates as a kind of self-evident. That's what we're saying: let's not give the quantum discount for a long time, like we're doing right now. It can't be explained, but it's not necessary. And if you look at how it got there, you can see that it's also just about cell deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u23	I would like to support Mr Van den Berge a little, because I am a little surprised by this. I hear the words 'detestable' and 'quantum discount' fall, but when asked through, Mr Van Wijngaard says: no, I am actually quite in favour of the system of conditional release, but you can talk about whether it should always be a third. Well, that's right: you can talk about that. But I think that with your choice of words you are very far from the importance we attach to it. That actually feeds you yourself that you cannot explain it, as you call it, while I believe that you, as a Member of Parliament, also have a duty to stand in front of the system. If you say you think it is a good system, you must also have the courage to say to people: we choose this system because we think it is right to help people in society. Then I do not think you should choose words like 'detestable' or 'quantum discount'. I would actually ask you to take back those words by saying: no, I did not mean that; it is about duration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u24	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u25	It is true that I am concerned with the length of time that is right, but what I do not like about the current practice is that it is perceived as a natural right to be released only after two thirds. I find the duration as it is now too long. This one-third system ultimately benefits the most severely punished most in terms of: the longer your punishment, the greater the discount. "Quantum discount" may sound a little faint, but that's what it is. I think it is good that in the new system with that detention phase we are going to make much more work of preparing people in the first instance for resocialisation within the walls and those last two years outside the walls. Two years is a very good time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u26	I am pleased with this more nuanced reaction. I think that's good. I think that is our duty as a chamber. I often notice that, when it comes to criminal law, we mention all kinds of incidents and that big words are spoken, but that parties are not going to stand up for the system. I am sure that the government party VVD, which has been waving the scepter in this department for years, should take that responsibility, so I am glad that Mr Van Wijngaarden is nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u27	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr Van Wijngaarden points out in his speech, and rightly so, that it is sometimes impossible to explain to the victims of serious crimes or to their relatives that people are back on the streets so quickly. Then he says: so it is good that we shorten that period to two years. My question concerns the justification of those two years. Where does Mr. Van Wijngaarden base it on the fact that these two years are long enough or good enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u29	As I have pointed out, it is important that you start working with inmates from day one and see how you can prepare someone well for a successful return to society. That doesn't just apply to short-term punishments. For the people watching it might be good to know that a lot of people in prison are there because they haven't paid a fine. That's just for a few weeks. Then it's also about how we can make the best use of those few weeks to teach people some skills and talk about work and so on. So I think you should do some work on resocialization from day one. When it comes to conditional release, two years seems sufficient to us. This is also evident from the discussions we have had with experts. I know that there are concerns about this at Reclassification Netherlands. Those concerns are rightly addressed today. I also expect the cabinet to take good note of this. It is a great change and a great task that lies here for the whole chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u30	The opinions we received were quite clear in broad terms, namely that there is a fear of serious risk of recurrence with this legislative proposal. We must find a good answer to that today, and I agree with that. The reason we opt for this system is to reduce the risk of recurrence, that people go wrong again. Then we have to find the right length of vi, I would say. For example, there is a report from Erasmus University, which states that one and a half to two years are similar. But they say right away that it may increase in the future. Then my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u31	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u32	Then my question to the VVD is: what is your motivation based on? To the public emotion that we can't explain it anymore? Or is that based on a piece of risk assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u33	Both. I don't think that's a disgrace at all. I want to be able to look the next of kin in the eye as a representative of the people. The indignation among them is great when perpetrators sometimes even without remorse are released almost automatically after two thirds of the punishment. I find that very difficult to explain to those people, so that certainly plays a role for me. I have also spoken with experts who say: you will have to get to work, also with an intensification of the programs you offer within the prison walls. We will come up with proposals on this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u34	Mr Grothuizen continued his speech. I mean Mr Van Wijngaarden, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mr Van Nispen is standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u36	But now comes Mr. Van Nispen. In itself, I would like to allow this, but I would like to point out that we are running quite well. I would ask you to intervene briefly, because there will be another debate tonight, which will now start much later than planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u37	It is interesting what is happening here, because the VVD is actually being put on the right track again by two coalition members. But I think that's because the VVD is trying to meet the emotion in particular. I think the VVD spokesperson should explain why we have that vi. This conditional release also serves the security of society, the stick behind the door that someone who goes in the wrong goes back to prison? Can Mr Van Wijngaarden acknowledge this and promote it more, rather than playing the emotion card in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u38	You are the third spokesperson to ask this question. However, I would like to give Mr Van Wijngaarden the opportunity to reply again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u39	It seems that emotion would not deserve a place in this room, but I think that this is an excellent subject that evokes many emotions among the people with whom we speak; we all do. I believe that this should be mentioned, also as a factor that we allow to be taken into account. But I very much agree that it would be extremely unwise to send people back into society unprepared, and that you really do need that vi. That's what I've been telling you. The only problem I had was it ever happened because of the cell shortage and it's just too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u40	Finalizing, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u41	Rounding up. It has, of course, been the VVD that has closed many prisons in recent years. I hope that Mr Van Wijngaarden realises that this has not been a sensible decision either. There are now a lot of people who are put together in one cell. You could give that one a single cell, too. The entire capacity issue has been largely caused by the VVD in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u42	I think that is a very different point. I have already indicated that it is important that these cell capacity estimates are conservative and that we should not go back to the situation of the 1980s. At the same time, we also need to handle taxpayers' money carefully. If there really is overcapacity, and we are convinced of it, then you will have to deal with it at some point, yes. Otherwise, we might as well throw the money in the fountain at the Binnenhof. Mr. Chairman. I therefore believe that the current regime can contribute to an erosion of confidence in the criminal justice chain. For the VVD, the vi is not the right of the inmate to be released earlier, but the fundamental right of society to be protected as much as possible. A better preparation for freedom results in less repeatance there he is. Does the Minister endorse this principle? And does he agree that security must always be decisive and remain in the VI programme? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions. It's a good thing we keep criminals locked up longer, but they'll have to stay inside. Oddly enough, escaping from prison in the Netherlands is not an independent criminal offence. We talked about that last week. This while offering less far-reaching crime of help in escape is punishable. The VVD would think: make this criminal. We're thinking of a four-year prison sentence for escape. Also serious withdrawal from electronic surveillance has already been addressed by the CDA, such as sabotaging an ankle bracelet and then taking the legs, should simply be punishable. We're thinking an extra year in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u43	There is an interruption by Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u44	Over the past two years, I have had many problems with Justice on my mind, such as police capacity problems, justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and legal aid, but the incredible number of escapes from facilities was not entirely clear to me. How many people have escaped from hospitals in the last five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u45	I'm not gonna play quiz games. I have the feeling that Mr Grothuizen knows the answer himself. Then he'll have to give it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u46	I do not know the answer, but Mr Van Wijngaarden is addressing a huge problem, so enormous that he feels that he should put it here in a plenary debate on another legislative proposal. So I ask: what exactly is the extent of this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u47	I did not say that this is a huge problem. What matters to me is that I also indicated last week that this is an anomaly in Dutch legislation. It is unusual that it is not punishable in the Netherlands. So it's just an inexplicable phenomenon. In the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Lithuania, Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States, escape from prison is punishable, and not in the Netherlands. Fortunately, it is not often that people escape, but if it does occur, I would be okay if there was a penalty. I hope D66 also thinks you shouldn't be able to escape from prison with impunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u48	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u49	Can the Minister assure us today that he will implement both urgent legislation? Is he prepared to inform the House of this within three months by letter containing a clear timetable? The VVD Group is a patient group, but we have been asking for this since 2017. There followed a delay and many great events passed us by. Meghan Markle married Prince Harry, Tom Dumoulin became second in the Tour de France, and the Netherlands won the Song Festival with Duncan. All these things could happen, the days and months passed, but we are still waiting, for two and a half years now. I therefore really hope that in 2019 we will be able to deal with legislation that makes it clear that the prisoner who evades the discipline of the Disciplinary House spits in the face the society he is part of. We should not accept this as a society, and it is precisely for this reason that we must criminalise escape and withdrawal from electronic surveillance. I can also tell you that next time I will think three times before I ask as a Member of Parliament for a WODC investigation. Mr. Chairman. Inmates who do not claim the VI because of bad behavior should be able to be put on the skin at the end of their prison sentence. However, the Long-Term Supervision Act does not apply to this group. Now it's going to be a tad technical, and only works for justitiables who have earned a vi thanks to good behavior. That is why I propose that prisoners who, because of bad behaviour, have no vi should still be allowed to enter the Wlt after a judicial test. Could this be included as an option in the next review of the Wlt, which only entered into force on 1 January last year? The PvdA also has an interest in this or an interesting idea. I'd like a response from the Minister. Convicts who suffer from addiction problems and should improve their Dutch language skills are less likely to stay on the right path. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can map out the possibility of improving the offer of evidence-based programmes in areas such as addiction care and language learning within the prison walls. Time in detention should be used to the maximum with evidence-based programs that help to reduce relapses and that any prison should be able to offer. What is the multi-annual level of ambition of the cabinet and what would be the cost of this? I am not asking for Rolls-Royce prisons here; I am merely asking for an inventory of the possibilities for improvement and the associated cost picture. If the Minister could submit his wish list around 5 December 2020, we are already very pleased. Our ideal is that a prisoner does not receive a standard program, but a program that fits in with learning the skill he still lacks. Think of job application training, rehab, financial autonomy and, for example, restoring contact with family. Then I come to bureaucracy in the prison system. This is really another concern for the VVD. We hear that guards have to keep a personal plan for every arrester, keeping track of everything. If a convict says he didn't have lunch yesterday, you have to be able to prove that that's true. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that a solution should be found before you have the same problems as in healthcare? Does he agree with the VVD that excessive rules and administration should be avoided? What, for example, would be opposed to providing prison staff with a hotline in the context of sensible detention, where they can report nonsense rules? Working in a prison should be fun. These people don't want to keep endless records. How is the government going to ensure that we prevent this and how is the government going to keep us as a Chamber informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u50	I want to understand this subject, but I really don't understand what Mr Van Wijngaarden is saying. I really can't remember or remember that it was ever like that when someone had lunch or not, staff had to keep track. Is it a question of excluding activities? We don't have the exclusion of food. What are you talking about now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u51	I've also spoken to people from the prison system themselves. I am certainly not referring to current practice. I am referring to the practice that could arise after the introduction of this law and what concerns live about. Of course, we're gonna look a lot tighter to see if anyone has earned that vi. You have to be able to document that: does one's behaviour fit enough? The concern that has been expressed there, and which I am actually addressing to this minister, is that this new regime could lead to additional and unnecessary administrative burdens. In fact, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this: is he keen on this and where can people be concerned about unnecessary administrative burdens? That's a bit analogous to health care, where you have initiatives like Sensitive Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u52	I doubted for a moment, but still briefly: it should not be so, I hope I do not have to understand it too easily, that it is too easy not to keep track of what progress has been made? Because you do want someone to be treated justly in the prison system and that the staff have the room to control that, so that good behavior can really be rewarded and bad behavior punished. We should not be too easy in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u53	That is a very justified point made by Mrs Van Toorenburg. At the risk of being accused of contradicting myself here, my next point is the importance of keeping track of information and so on. But the art is to avoid unnecessaryness. That is, of course, the same in health care, because that is where you have to keep a good record of the medical records. In the care you also see all kinds of horrible certification programs, which make some people very rich but everyone wonders why we actually have those programs. It's about that kind of thing. If those concerns are with the staff, I hope it will find a listening ear in this cabinet. I now come to two points of implementation, the implementation practice. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already mentioned this. The implementation starts now, and it won't be easy. This law makes the quality of information increasingly important. Some administration is therefore inevitable and even necessary for the establishment of adequate conditions and the taking of vi-decisions. For this purpose, the availability of up-to-date, bundled information is of great importance for the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Administrative and Information Centre for the Executive Chain, together with a reinforced source of information from DJI, could play this role well. Is that also the Minister's opinion? Can we therefore assume that this will be the case? I'm about to finish, Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the quality of the conditions. The Minister wants to focus on parole activities within the pi. The bundled information is also useful in this respect, so that the public prosecutor can provide even better tailor-made conditions. How's the minister gonna get this information to the D.A.? Reference has also been made to the parole board in Canada. Then there is the issue of concentration of the case-law. The bill does not include the plea of the Public Prosecutor to concentrate case law on vi decision. Concentration in a specialised court, e.g. the penitentiary chamber of the court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden, could improve quality and efficiency. Why is the Minister so opposed to this? In fact, the absence of such a concentration would create additional burdens on the public prosecutor. As a judge, it seems difficult to deal with this properly if you don't treat this very often. That's where I'd like to get another reaction. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u55	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden went from Rolls-Royce and Meghan Markle to this debate, while I make the link with Rachel Zane in Suits, who is currently trying to see if she can get someone out of death row, death row. I don't know how it ends, so don't tell me yet. Mr. Chairman. We do not know such a system in the Netherlands. We don't work with the death penalty. I know that some parties are in favour of this, but my party is not. At the same time, our punishments must fit the sense of retribution in society. This is one of the main objectives of punishment: to prevent retaliation, to prevent self-direction, to prevent repetition and to protect society for as long as necessary. I think the bill that is now before us meets the sense of retribution. It meets all the conversations we've had with victims, relatives and victim associations, and the feeling of injustice when someone with a 12-year prison sentence gets out after eight years. Perhaps this will also help to prevent the feeling of self-direction. At the same time, I wonder whether it meets the question of preventing repetition and thereby protecting society. If I'm being very honest with the Minister, I might not have written this bill down as it is now. Perhaps we should have chosen a more flexible form of conditional release rather than a rigid form in which we opt for two years. After all, would that not have given much more room for customization, more room for judges and more room for the wishes of probation, while at the same time it would have had the elements of satisfaction and retribution in it? But that is not the case; the cabinet has not chosen to do so. So now we have to judge the bill as it stands. But my great concern and my questions are at this point. Are we now sure that repetition can be prevented with those two years? And in what way do we shape and express the concerns expressed, including by Reclassing Netherlands, and respond to them? That period of two years is in itself rather rigid. That is what my main question is about. In fact, all Members of Parliament have gone into this, but I think it is very important that the Minister should simply outline why he does not consider these two years too short. What possibilities do we have in advance? What possibilities do we have afterwards? How does the Minister intend to respond to the criticism of Reclassification Netherlands? All the questions have been addressed and I think it is important to make the main point of the Minister's reply. Then there are some specific questions. I have a question about how we now deal with the measure that you can impose, the behavioral measure. We can impose these on serious behavior or sexual offences. That has been made possible and that is good. But, wouldn't it be wise, in as many cases as possible, especially in the case of serious sexual, behavioral and violent crimes, to always potentially impose that GBM? You prevent that at the end of the ride you no longer have that possibility to do so. There are others who are potentially about that, but I think it would be wise to explore how to prevent at the end of the journey that you did not make that decision at the front, which might be reason enough. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. For the same reason, we have tabled an amendment with Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. He summarized it very briefly: I am looking for an emergency valve to prevent people who have been sentenced to prison from acting calculatingly. Namely, I deliberately do not choose the vi, because then I am no longer susceptible to anyone. That is why a specific amendment, which states that you can still apply special conditions at the latest 30 days before the end of the penalty measure. I think this is very sensible and I would like to have a concrete response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There are some good things in the bill, including the obligation to move, which is now well regulated. For short, I would like to endorse the questions put by Mrs Van Toorenburg. It is good that good behavior pays off, but at the same time it gives more power to non-jurisdiction to judge what good behavior is. This has already been demonstrated by a number of speakers in the Chamber. I think it is important for the Minister to be very specific about this. Based on what criteria do we decide? Who's gonna test that? Are they measurable and testable? Let me give you an example. We also have a risk assessment framework in the negative. In forensic care, it's not the same for everyone. That also gives certain disadvantages, we have seen very horrific in the case of P. How do we prevent this from happening with criteria in which we judge what good behavior is? Who's gonna test that? How do we prevent unwanted behavior when there's a world behind it? I believe that this question is clear in this way and I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. No, not after all, it's my second final point. Mr Van Nispen and Mr D66 said quite clearly that this requires a great deal from the system. It requires sufficient people and sufficient resources. When I look at the financial paragraph, I know that we come from a difficult time. So I'd like to know from the Minister how he reflects on this. How do we secure this? How do we pay attention to this? Mr President, give me one more minute and then I will finish. Mr Groothuizen also asked whether a period of up to 36 months would not be too short to shape this re-integration process. Wouldn't you like to stretch that? I, too, am considering putting forward a proposal on this subject, and I therefore agree with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u56	Thank you. Mr Drost has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government has its own vocation and responsibility. It is called upon to protect justice and fight injustice. It monitors the organisation of society and the common interest. It protects the vulnerable and the vulnerable. Mr. Chairman. This passage on public justice from the Christian Union's programme of principle, fine reading, contains three pillars for the Christian Union for a just criminal justice chain. This is the fight against and punishing injustice, protecting society and thus preventing repeated crime, and giving room for resocialisation and recovery. On these three pillars, my group is reviewing this bill. Mr President, first of all, combating and punishing injustice. It is important to do justice to the victims of crime and, in balance with other criminal targets, to allow for retaliation and social redress. Social support is indispensable for an effective criminal justice chain. Here the Christian Union sees that there is a certain emotion, or in the words of the Council for Justice: social incomprehension, living in society. Worrying perhaps, but also incredibly understandable, because it is not easy to explain that perpetrators of serious crimes such as murders and rapes are allowed to wander outside again many years before the end of their sentence. It seems that the penalty period is automatically shortened by a third. This bill can be a significant step, precisely to show society that injustice is punished and to do more justice to the sense of justice of victims and relatives. However, the Minister must also have seen the reactions of judges to this law. For example, they indicate that they are already taking into account the gross and net duration of penalties when allocating the penalty. Knowing that the present amendment will not deal with conditional release until later in the sentence, consideration will be given to imposing less long sentences. The Christian Union Group respects the fact that judges make their own assessment. After all, they too seek a balance between the different objectives of our criminal law. We do think it is important that we know what the consequences of this law are in practice, including at the front of the criminal chain. Can the Minister undertake to report on this in evaluations, but perhaps earlier? In any case, my group sees a number of references to the evaluation in the underlying documents. At the same time, no evaluation clause has been included in the legislative proposal. This may be difficult, because this law has an effect mainly on long-term sentences and not all effects will be visible within two or three years, while the consequences for cell capacity, the prosecution and parole may come to light at an earlier stage. Can the Minister explain how he sees the process of evaluation of this law? Is it conceivable that the evaluation should take place at different stages? Mr. Chairman. Another direct consequence which is also addressed in the note on the report is cell capacity. The Minister states that, on the basis of the PMJ estimates, some 350 additional places were processed in 2023. Has a specific assessment been made for the period after that, all the more so because only after the end of the transitional period will it become fully clear what this means for capacity? Does it make any difference that the additional capacity required will have to be used mainly for long-term punishes who have committed a serious offence? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The second pillar I mentioned is the protection of society and the prevention of recurrence. Can the Minister reflect on how he sees the government's responsibility to protect society in such a way that even after the detention period the risk of recurrence is as small as possible? As far as he is concerned, what is the added value of conditional release? I deliberately mention the post-detention phase, for there is a great concern for the Christian Union. This concern is shared by almost all the bodies that have provided us with input for this bill. Is the maximum period of two years of conditional release long enough for the group to re-integrate? I see that the Minister refers to Erasmus University's research that indicates that conditional release on special conditions between 2012 and 2016 was on average one and a half to two years. At the same time, the same research suggests that this period is likely to increase in the future. Has the Minister taken into account this observation? To what extent is this number representative of prisoners of more than six years' sentence? The Minister puts a lot of confidence in the personal approach to prepare prisoners for the period after that during their stay in the penitentiary institution. But does its connection to conditional release remain secure, even if the period vi is limited to two years? Does the Minister have that much faith in it? The other possible downside of the two-year period is that prisoners are going to show calculative behavior in order to avoid the extension of conditional release, and thus conditions of freedom, even after the detention period has ended. The Minister states that he does not expect this to happen. However, my group sees this as a real possibility. Does the Minister agree with me that, at all costs, it is necessary to prevent the serious criminals from being released without any period of reintegration or release under conditions? Would that not be an unacceptable safety risk for society? Should it now appear that an incorrect assessment has been made, will the Minister undertake to inform the Chamber at the first signal of calculating behaviour and consider other or additional measures? Third. Can the Minister further identify what possibilities he can see to further discourage any calculating behavior? Here again the question of how this will come back in an evaluation. Mr. Chairman. The third pillar is the provision of space for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Just punishment also means that there is room for a fresh start after the sentence has been served. Where appropriate and possible, attention should be paid to this during the detention period. This also seems to be happening with the reintegration goals that are being worked on. My group is pleased to see that the restoration of contact with family and the practice of family living are included, and that this is the purpose of the Van der Graaf motion. On this point too, my group has a number of questions. It is precisely the targeted approach that can be difficult for inmates with intellectual disabilities, in whom the distinction between not wanting and not being able to make can not be so easy. The Minister states that this will be an eye, but does he also recognise that it is precisely in people with a slightly intellectual disability that it is difficult to determine whether there is unwillingness or inability to do so? Are there enough opportunities at the moment to apply customisation in the detention and reintegration plan, even if a restriction or disorder appears in detention over time? This plan is drawn up at the beginning of the prison sentence. How will the adjustment of those individual plans take place in the course of detention? Is that just an administrative reality that then misses the point, or are we really going to switch to a personal and case-oriented approach here? Is the Minister confident that this change will become practice? And does the Minister have the right and sufficient people to actually do so? Finally, one important point that my group wishes to make. Now that there is an intensification of punishment and targeted work towards reintegration into prison, it is also important that outside the prison walls attention is paid to rehabilitation and recovery. I would like to emphasise the coalition agreement, which states that in the implementation of sanctions and measures, resocialisation and probation will be more firmly positioned and that not only will there be investment in professionals, but there will also be more attention and space for volunteering. In what way is the Minister going to implement this law in the near future? In what way is he going to organise and support those who in our society want to put time and energy into fellow human beings who have served their sentence and to whom they wish to lend a helping hand? We welcome any initiative and would like the Minister to give this generous support. Finally. I've got seven minutes left, but I'm not gonna finish it. I will conclude with another quote from the same programme of principles that I started with. "In this broken world we are all called to peace and justice. Those who seek justice and peace do not linger in passive pleas. Doing justice means bets for a decent existence for the other. Peace-seeking means continuing to work for reconciliation in a conflict-filled world." This active search for peace, justice and reconciliation is something I wish the Minister and all of us very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u58	Thank you very much. Then, as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Hiddema, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u59	Mr. Chairman. Why are we meeting here? That's all the fault of that wretched Volkert van der G. It has ruined the whole climate around the vi so much that you can't even make an intellectual speech or inspire it with the best intentions, that article can only wish it a splash of blessing. You're done talking. The article is completely fucked up, I'm saying. You can't work with it anymore. People's will turns against the article; it's a bogeyman. So it has to go. That's why we're here. As simple as that. While Volkertje can't help it either. They've been a bunch of worldly stranger judges who gave Volkert eighteen years. They were so strange that they even said at first instance that he had not disturbed the democratic process, since the elections had been conducted in an orderly manner and he did not pose a risk of repetition. So they gave him 18 years. Why? Because they thought he was serving 12 years. You can't get that into people. It's purely the judge who decides, anticipating the vi, how long someone actually sits down. So all this indignation and all this whispering, how come this guy's been out there for so long, because he was supposed to be in jail by the verdict? It should be placed on the judge's plate. And that's where it stays. For if those same damned judges ran into another Volkert, they would not give Volkert eighteen years with a new arrangement, if they thought he should sit for twelve years, but fourteen years. Count it out. The rules have been respected. It's okay. It's okay. It's a fake fight we're having here. It is a debate to remove social unrest, but it is a pacifier. The judges always keep looking for judgments in the same way. In the courtroom of the judges is asked: boys, what should it be? The chairman says to the clerk: what do you think? Then there'll be a question for the youngest judge. The first question is: how long do you think that man should at least be in prison? Then they pick up the ongoing vi-regulation, whether that's the new one or the old one, and then they figure out the punishment he's going to have to serve, using the vi. But that is in spite of the judgment in which another article or another year is in it. Mrs. Van Toorenburg wants to know something about me. That's making me so restless, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u60	Yes, you're right. I'll give her the floor soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u61	I just want to add something. It is important to mention the facts here too. Already before the tragic murder by Volkert van der Graaf, our election programmes stated that we wanted to see the conditional release adjusted. So it has nothing to do with one person. It is important that we see that the conditions are hardly met. But this law wasn't made up because of one dangerous lunatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u62	So Volkert didn't care about your election program. But thank you for this announcement. I remember that. Forum has carefully considered what the new draft law has to offer. I have to say, it does appeal to us. The automatic character is out. There never was, but that's how it was brought to people, and that was very hard to sell. The D.A.'s office is now in charge, because the introductions are now going through the state's attorney's office. It is now going on with the help of a committee of experts. Fine, no offense. There is attention to risk assessment. That seems logical to me, but much attention is paid to it in the pleadings. The desired behavior is under review. You shouldn't let people take you by the nose pretending to be willing and very re-sociable. The system of promotion and degradation is also very good. That is the earning model: as a detainee, simply put, you have to do what you need to do to make a step towards more rights. That's as logical as it gets. A person-oriented approach, yes, I think, is useful. There will be a firmer role of parole and the interests of the victims will also come around the corner, more than ever, in determining special conditions for the vi. Fine. Fine. The vi must remain meaningful. When people attack me on the fact that I'm defending the vi, I always come up with a simple rebuttal: what do you want? Don't you want people to be watched when they get out? Is that too much honor? Does that cost too much state interference? Aren't those guys worth it? Isn't it worth keeping an eye on these people? If that's what you really think, fine. But then you have to come up with a solution. And that is only one: the reintroduction of the death penalty, or perhaps a slightly lighter variant, which is a general minimum sentence of life for all crimes. Then you'll never have surveillance problems again, and you'll be rid of all the shit. That is the only alternative for someone who respects state security and the security of the population and seriously believes that people, who can be dangerous because they just get out of prison after years and walk around freely, should not be kept in the dark. Then there is only this choice. As you can see, Mr President, I am very nuanced and we have looked at the substance of the matter. It's now about the maximation at two years. It is marvelous that if someone gets 30 years, I'll just call him 20 years. In the eyes of humanity, that's just a gift for ten years. That's not really true; the judge wanted him to serve 20 years, but okay. It's a wonderful display, I can see that. But how can you tell if someone is really improving? How can you tell if someone could be re-integrated and stay? How can you tell? You can't see that until he's free. For that you can do your best in that direction, but then it can show desired treaty and you can be taken by the nose. He thinks it's gonna take my time. But you won't notice until he's stuck-boom with his purse outside in the fresh air and back on his old spot and sees his old buddies. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Then the temptations break loose. Only then can you see to what extent such a person is resilient. I think with a two-year term, you're gonna throw the kid away with the bathwater. At first it was a bit long, but now it is very short. We have calculating offenders. They are also set as an example here, but only in the variant that people in prison do not want to participate in the vi. They think: that's only two years, I don't want that susa at all, I don't submit to state surveillance anymore; you can bite me when I'm done, I walk away and do it. Well, I still have to run into him, you know, someone who willingly decides to sit for two years when he doesn't have to. Weird creatures are. That requires further psychological examination of such a candidate. That's an ailment I haven't encountered. I do see another variant of the calculating delinquent. That's someone I just outlined to you. That's a lot of them. I understand that the calculating types are mostly in the drug trade. They've served a long time in prison. Eight or ten years, that's no big deal. When they come out, they're quite always commercially decorated. They always have been. He's in the fresh air, he runs into his old buddy and he smells a deal somewhere, here and there. He's been out of jail for a year and a half and he thinks, "Well, that looks attractive. They're trustworthy people, everything's neatly arranged. What could happen to me? One last shot, why wouldn't I? What kind of risk am I running? Two years. That's worth something to me. I've had a lot of bad luck my whole life, two years left. We'll do it again." That is the worst effect that this maximation will have on two years. You must have a stick behind the door, put a sword of Damocles over his head. The little, sweet Volkert van der G. What can he do about it?The body is legally a cadaver that is always drawn to. He's taunting everyone, horrible. And I can't get away from it either. If, after 12 years with that old vi, he had put a wrong leg in the wrong direction, he would have been on his roof for six years. There was something at stake. That wasn't so crazy. It's weird that you think he should leave after 12 years. That's amazing, but yes, we've already talked about that. In itself, that threat is good. With the calculating types I ask the Minister, he himself stands a little still. He says: well, if someone is a big risk in those two years, then he has undergone a preliminary journey and a whole process of reintegration has come into play. But then he won't be free. Then he never had to be able to resist. Then he can show desired behavior. Then he'll play the game. You don't count as someone who's been resocialized until you can resist temptations. And that's what you do outside and not inside. The Minister also says: you can always let go of the Law on long-term supervision. Well, that doesn't scare anyone who's doing that calculating. A lot of people don't think about that. They're not even on probation at all. It doesn't hold back. You have to put a brake on people who, given their past with long prison sentences, have shown that they are susceptible to risks and committing serious crimes. And you can't stop it with a maximation in two years. It's so stupid. I'm sorry to put it this way, but it can be so simple. We have an amendment in mind. Maximize it over four years. We can still sell to the people that there is a difference by four years someone is actually being imposed and what he actually is. That must be explained after everything we have done here and after the way in which the Volkert case has taken place and how the vi works. Every victim today has a welfare attorney in a case that matters a bit. He can really prepare his business for what awaits a convict, a convict. With a ten-year sentence, he gets eight years. Simple. If it's up to us, there'll be a maximation of four years. That seems very useful to us for a brake on criminal instincts of recidivists who know where Abraham gets the mustard, who calculate for profit and who are in the drug trade. If, given the past perhaps at a later age, they are faced with the choice of running the risk of four years or remaining in their seats, then I think they are inclined to think. Two years is a threshold they'll get over. So that's stupid. That's the kid with the bathwater toss. The Minister shouldn't do that. He has to cut off the calculating internal delinquent who doesn't want to cooperate and the one who sits outside when he can hit another swing. The man who sits inside and wants to sit for two more years because he doesn't want a susa, thinks when he has to resist that temptation for four years. So there will probably be an amendment. I'm waiting for the Minister's answer to suggest that we limit this to four years, and we'll see. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u63	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs some time to prepare for his term. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u64	The next item is the debate on the Punishment and Protection Bill. We need the first term from the cabinet. I call the Minister for Legal Affairs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Chamber that this bill has been tabled so quickly for an oral hearing, so that we can discuss this before summer and hopefully take it off. The proposals we are discussing here today partly stem from the coalition agreement, from the vision of doing justice, offering opportunities presented last year, the follow-up of a number of investigations following the Michael P. case, and a large number of motions from your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In essence, we are talking about this legislative proposal on a number of important proposals that contribute to the better involvement of victims' interests and the safety of society in the enforcement of penalties. In addition to the interests of detainees, these interests play an important role in the implementation process. At the moment, the balance sometimes goes a little too often towards the interests of detainees, while it must be a balance of interests: those of detainees, but also those of victims and the security of society. That balance must be restored. Of course, we must ensure that prisoners return to society as prepared as possible. This benefits everyone, including society. At that point, we are taking an extra step with this bill. Mr. Chairman. An important pillar here is the personal approach of the inmate. An essential element is the attention to the behaviour of the inmate and the commitment to behavior change. For some time now there has been a movement towards a more personalised approach in the prison system. I really want to implement and anchor that right now, where my starting point is that we are not going to wait until the end of the detention is in sight, but start on day one. The principles that we apply in the outside world, namely that good behavior is rewarded and bad behavior is punished, are already given when someone goes to prison. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all the Members who have asked questions today. I belong here and there with support. I am pleased with that, but I have also tasted that there are a number of points that require further clarification and that we may need to discuss a little more with each other. I wanted to build up my answer as follows. I have noticed that a lot of questions have been asked about conditional release. However, in order to have that discussion properly, it is important to start with what the personal approach means and how it works throughout the system. The conditional release is an important part, but it is the final part. So I want to start with the personal approach. A number of things are discussed, such as the criteria that count, behaviour, security risks, victim interests, but also the phase-out in the different types of leave. The second is conditional release, with questions about the new design and duration, how to deal with risk groups, the risk of calculating behaviour and the relationship between conditional release and other modalities. Next I come to a block about organisation and implementation. There are elements such as data exchange, cooperation, who does what and what exactly are the roles for the Public Prosecutor's Office, DJI and the probation. I will therefore address questions about capacity and money, for example. I'll finish with a cube of varia. Mr. Chairman. As I indicated, I would like to start with the whole system, because the proposals for conditional release should not be seen in isolation. What I want to go to with this bill is the situation where we do not wait until the end of detention, but actually start work on the first day. We do this by getting a better picture of the safety and care risks of those we get in at the start of detention and looking at how they are doing on the basic conditions that are so important to return to in a good way later. The results are used to create a personal plan, a D&R plan, with behavioural goals. What can you do to get your life back on track? We work from the very beginning, in drawing up the D&R plan, together with authorities, municipalities and parole. I will tell you in the third block what is needed for this in terms of data distribution. That's an important part. The aim of the new phase of detention is that prisoners are also growing gradually towards release. First by slowly earning more internal freedoms and by the end of detention also external freedoms. Leading in this are three elements: behavior, risks to society and victim interests. Let me start with the behavior. We're going to look more and more closely at how prisoners behave, how they behave, and they're pointing out their responsibilities. That was one of the red threads in the vision of the prison system last year. As far as I am concerned, the focus is not only on the absence of bad behavior, of misconduct, but also on the presence of good and constructive behavior. That's another way of looking and another way of thinking. Mrs Van Toorenburg also mentioned this as one of the key principles of this bill. This commitment to behavior is also important, I say in the direction of Mr Drost, precisely in order to avoid repeated acts later on. If we can change that behavior during detention, they will pay back twice and in reverse: they will work better on their own reintegration and they will come out better prepared. Mrs. Kuik asked what is actually good behavior. How exactly are you going to fill that out? In general, an inmate starts a basic program. With desired behavior they can promote to a plus program, in which they get an already more enriched program and some more privileges. The legal definition of "good behavior" is the extent to which and the way in which the condemned person has demonstrated by his behaviour a special suitability for return to society. In fact, it's just that he's showing himself from his best side and keeping away from things that aren't allowed and can't. What are you looking at? For example, you look at treatment, use of resources, attitude to work and presence or absence of aggression against personnel. You see if someone participates constructively in activities that can contribute to that reintegration already within the walls. Of course, it is common for a prisoner to have both desirable and unwanted behaviour, so when deciding on promotion and degradation, it is important to get an overall picture. The director of the establishment shall decide on promotion and degradation on the basis of an opinion and a multidisciplinary consultation. So there's going to be intervision. In that case, there is no arbitrariness in the lurking position of one individual official, but it is done in conjunction. I think I have also given the answer to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question. He asked if there were enough checks-and-balances in there. It is precisely because of the distance there is from the workplace to a multidisciplinary consultation to a director who ultimately decides, together with the fact that the decision of the director can be complained to the complaints committee of the establishment. The RSJ may appeal to that effect again. That leads me to believe that there are really enough safeguards to prevent abuses. Several Members, including Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Groothuizen, Mr Van Wijngaarden, actually everyone, have asked what happens if someone wants to, but could not. Those are the so-called non-cannons. For example, prisoners with disabilities, intellectual disabilities, mental disorders, addiction problems. That is an important target group in the detention system. Here it is true that the person-oriented approach offers room again. Any problems can be taken into account immediately and discussed. For example, it can be screened by the LVB if there is a suspicion that someone has a layer of IQ. Next, when setting behavioral targets in a D&R plan and assessing that behavior, account is taken of what one's background is and what exactly he could do. For example, you have to think of custom behavior goals, so that what you ask is realistic. At least so important is that on the other hand it can also mean that we need extra help or extra guidance, just to help those people perhaps a little more than those who do not know that limitation. The personal approach means not only that we ask for something extra from prisoners, namely that he or she behaves according to his or her ability and accepts his or her responsibility, but also that as a government, as a prison system, we must provide additional help and guidance where necessary. This creates a tailor-made approach, which, of course, also looks at what is needed in the area of addiction care, in the field of education. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked for that. I understand the questions in such a way that he wants us to map out what kind of interventions there are, whether they are effective interventions, or if they have proven themselves, whether we should or could prescribe that standard in order to make a greater contribution to reducing the risk of repetition in detention. I actually see that as a support of the line. I'd be happy to map that out sometime. Then there are also prisoners who can, but do not want to cooperate. They will not be eligible for different forms of leave, for example conditional release. This doesn't mean that nothing happens to a safe return during detention. We're working on that with all the inmates, but with the non-willers, we're gonna have to do it in a different way. They will be in a basic programme and not in a plus programme, but also in a basic programme of reintegration activities. They are mainly focused on self-awareness and motivation. Trying to start that conversation over and over again. Can't you seduce someone to use their time behind bars in a better, more sensible way? It takes time. That question bet. That requires craftsmanship from the people in the prison system. But I think we should never give up trying to do that, because even if we can't, or if we can't, there is a possibility of giving a limited form of leave at the end of a sentence. I am thinking, for example, of short-term reintegration leave. In any case, it is ensured that such a person can make arrangements, for example on renting a house or applying for a benefit. The question was a little bit: do you have to do that? I think that the balance is the following: if someone has lasted so long, they really do not want to, but their punishment really comes to an end and if the vi-period is complete, then it is worth trying to get some of those basic principles in order. We know that the chances of repetition are really very high when they are not there. Can we then distinguish non-cannons and non-willers from each other, asked Mr Groothuizen. Of course, everything is focused on that. That's why we start looking very early and that's why we also map out any problems early and work with these custom behavior goals. Mr Drost asked if these behavioral targets could be adjusted during the journey. The answer to that is: yes, that is the intention. If it turns out that someone can handle more, then maybe the bar can be raised again. If anyone has any serious problems, you'll have to take that into account. Of course, it is the intention that all this goes without a huge new paper circus. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked a little about that. Not that this is the case now, but it is certainly not the intention that we should do so. This just has to be done in a lukewarm way. Of course, you have to record certain things, so that you can do things later, for example, when the Public Prosecutor's Office has to make a decision on whether or not conditional release is well documented. But we don't want useless or unnecessary paper scraping. People must also have time to work with prisoners and not just sit behind their desks to fill out forms. Mr. Chairman. The thing about behavior. The safety risks are the second aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u66	Minister, may I interrupt you for a moment? Actually, I wanted to make an appointment with the MPs. The Minister speaks on the basis of four blocks. That is why I would like to propose that the interruptions be carried out at the end of each block, because we are already living at the time when we were originally going to start to tackle Nitrogen. Otherwise, it's gonna be very late today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u67	How about we make the alternative agreement that we try to hold back and limit and keep the interruptions short? I think that will improve the efficiency and liveliness of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u68	I see nodding, but then I'm going to hold you to that. Then I'm gonna talk through it if it takes too long. We're really keeping track of how many interruptions there are. Some have already been much more active than others. Then I'll address you to that. Then you may now interrupt in the direction of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are, of course, few major policy changes or legislative changes, although they are intended to produce unnecessary paperwork. It is good that the Minister agrees with this, but my question went one step further. If I work in such an institution and I run into unnecessary bureaucracy in one or two years' time, where can I go? Who's guarding that? Can the Minister pay extra attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u70	I'd say your supervisor's, your boss's. That may sound a little obligatory, but it is absolutely not. The comparison with care does not go far enough in my view. Care is a much larger sector and also consists of many institutions that are not directly controlled by the government. There are many private institutions and civil society. These are a limited number of prisons which are directly covered by the Judicial Institutions Department which directly falls within the Ministry's remit. In the healthcare sector, you need a separate hotline to map all of this, but in the prison system, I think it's easier, just because we're on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u71	Thanks for the answer. Otherwise, I say through the President, these people can of course always turn to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u72	Of course. They know where to find you, and so do I, and that's good. Mr. Chairman. The other thing we're looking at is the security risks. In particular, the granting of external freedoms will look not only at behaviour, but also at the potential risks to society posed by a detainee. I mentioned the external freedoms. I am referring to leave, conditional release, but also to the penitentiary programme for shorter sentences. Mr Van der Staaij has tabled an amendment to lay down the safety risks as a criterion in the law. I look at my list and I look at him: that is the amendment to part No. 17? He's nodding. That is in line with this bill, so I can leave the assessment of this amendment to your Chamber. With this legislative proposal, I want to ensure that the risks and opportunities to reduce risks are always well understood and involved in decisions on freedoms. This means that we need to identify the risks before and more during detention. All kinds of instruments are being developed for this. I would like to point out that risk assessment is always about professional assessments. No one can predict exactly how things are going. This isn't an exact science, but we can still make a move in this. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked if safety should always prevail. In my view, this is a very important aspect, which must always and in the future be taken more seriously into account when granting freedoms. Behavior, risks, security for society: I discussed that. The third point is victim interests. We now want to take this point more explicitly into account in the legislative proposal. Mrs Van Toorenburg, together with Mr Van Oosten, has already drawn attention to these interests at an earlier stage. I mentioned in my introduction that I think it is important that these interests are also taken into account. This is why victims are consulted on their need for protection and that this is also taken into account when granting freedoms. Mrs Van Toorenburg had another question about another part of her motion, namely whether you can look at a parole board. I would like to come back to that in more detail in my last block, because that affects the role of the Public Prosecutor. Victims also, of course, have an interest in compensation for their damage. In order to carry out the Van Oosten/Van Toorenburg motion, this has been incorporated into the law as a special condition. Furthermore, it can be examined during detention whether damage is actually being compensated. Behavior, safety of society, victims: the question is how it all works in that chain of leave, across the whole spectrum. I note that the present general and regime-related leave is being granted too automatically and that in practice it is also too non-binding. The existing regime does not offer sufficient scope for targeted implementation and in practice there is a need to be less routine, to put more emphasis on the design of leave according to the size of the particularities of a case and to look much more closely at what leave can contribute to successful reintegration in the long term. There is an older research by the WODC, from 2006, that already noted this at the time, but it is still true. I heard Mrs Van Toorenburg paint the picture of leave which is granted of course. This is also endorsed in this study. Since then, it has been said that it would be good if something changes in that, but that has never actually happened, until now, if you are prepared to adopt this bill. What we are going to do in concrete terms is linking reintegration goals, based on those personal plans, to what we expect an inmate to do and arrange during the periods of his leave; the useful use of his time, you might say. Secondly, I want more construction so that prisoners can grow into release. So you don't have to separate it from each other, in the sense of: now you're in that phase and now you're in that period, all of it. No, you need to look, evaluate and build. If someone can handle more, he may take another step, so that, before anyone reaches the end of his sentence, there has been a sliding scale instead of a protocoled one, saying: at this stage you are entitled to this and this. So we have to get rid of automatism. There needs to be more gradual build-up, which is more focused on real reintegration and recurrence reduction, reducing the risk of recurrence. I also understand from the input that there is support for more personalisation of leave and more tailor-made work, distinguishing between three forms of leave, as a result of the Kooiman motion. We are talking about short-term reintegration leave, long-term reintegration leave and leave for extramural work, in other words: working with a boss during the day, sleeping in prison at night. These leave arrangements, combined with previous efforts in detention, mean that we, I say in the direction of Mr Drost and Mrs Kuik, who asked for them, proceed more gradually and that we become more effective in combating recidivism. We believe that this will have a positive effect on the reduction in the number of repeats. I want to start at the back, with the extramural work. We took a good look at that. We have also said: the Zbbis, which a previous cabinet said it wanted to get rid of, we, even more so, want to expand them. If you look at the period, I note that a year before the entry of a possible vi-period is sufficient to weigh that well. Short leave is for practical matters, for example a job interview or preparation for extramural work. Long-term leave is based on leave longer than a day outside the establishment, for example to get used to a family again. I know that, for example, Mrs Van der Graaf, who is being replaced by Mr Drost, attaches great importance to this. I think that's important, too. Some inmates have children. Just a family can be a stabilising factor. Then it's important that you get used to what it means to come back as a father in such a setting. With that, you really link it to a concrete goal. In the proposals we have made, this leave may be discussed for the first time 12 months before the vi-date in the case of six-year sentences, rising to 36 months in the case of 30-year sentences. This means that there is a gradual build-up which is consistent with the duration of the sentence. I understand that there are calls for a little more room for that long-term reintegration leave. I have, of course, read the letter from Reclassaging Netherlands. Mr Groothuizen also asked for this, as did Mr Drost and Mrs Kuik. I think two things are important to me. One is that leave is reserved for the end of detention. You shouldn't start with freedoms too early. And two, that the issue of leave is actually about the reintegration of an inmate. If we can stick to these principles and there is a strong desire in your Chamber to perhaps find a little more space, then I am not opposed to them in advance. A number of specific questions. Mr Drost asked whether the connection between the first stage of detention and the vi was well secured. One of the reasons for this legislative proposal is that the vi will be better aligned with detention phase, because we will also apply the same criteria at all stages of the detention phase. I just mentioned the three-stroke behavior, security society, victim interest. Mr Van den Berge wanted to know whether prisoners were involved in the D&R plan early. Do they have any insight into that? Do they understand that? Are restrictions taken into account? Everything is aimed at achieving that. Of course they are involved, because you cannot draw up plans without giving the prisoners a say in it. You need to see what kind of person you got in front of you, what's going on. The aim is to make concrete agreements on this, and not just to say from DJI "this and this and that and that's it." I'd rather we just meet together: this would be good, let's do it. In that case, the commitment is also greater than when you do it unilaterally. That's right at the beginning. It is up to the mentor to clearly indicate what the agreements mean, even if someone has difficulty understanding where it is going. But, of course, we also take into account the level of language control and ensure that language is not too complicated. It's not jazzed with jargon, I'll say. If necessary, a prisoner, for example, if there is a restriction, does not have to meet the same requirements as if there is not. What matters is that someone is working seriously to improve his behavior. Mr Van Nispen asked what the concrete activities in the plus programme were compared to the basic programme. The plus program offers 48 hours of activities per week. If there are no activities, the prisoner may remain outside the ward for 11 hours a week. The plus program has an evening program on two nights a week. Additional activities are also offered on weekends. The total duration of the day program of prisoners in the plus program is 49 hours per week. Which parts are in there? Return activities, education and work, all aimed at better socialisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u73	Are all the penitentiary institutions currently able to offer what the Minister is now saying in reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u74	Yes. You're probably referring to Schiphol. There is one place where we are now busy creating workspace, for example, because I think that labour is an important part of those programs. There is no such thing now, but that is what we want to achieve there. It is not without reason that we are going to try to use more work in a number of places. I think that's important. It brings structure and discipline and people learn a profession. That's gonna help them later. So, yeah, it's supposed to be offered everywhere soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u75	The point of work was indeed an explicit concern. The Minister also mentions education and then my question is whether all those inmates who are eligible for that plus programme, who qualify for it, can indeed be that number of hours outside the cell that the minister now mentions here, that they are offered education in all those places and that there is also an evening and weekend programme in all those places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u76	To my best knowledge, yes. If you say you do hear other noises, I'd like to check for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u77	Let me fix something. I think the plus program is 59 hours: 48 plus 11. Now the minister said it was 49 hours, but I understand it's 59.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u78	Then I've missed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u79	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u80	Then I wanted to move on to conditional release, because that is the final piece of the personal approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u81	There is still a question about the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u82	I was just waiting for the Minister to finish answering. In itself, the answers appeal to me. I said in my own contribution that the strong point of this bill is to start working on resocialisation and reintegration from day one, so the answers appeal to me. I do wonder to what extent this is practically feasible. There are already capacity concerns in the penitentiary institutions. That Court of Auditors also concludes that. The Reclassification is now only available in a limited number of penitentiary settings. So to what extent is it realistic what the Minister is saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u83	In my view, it's a realistic story. I know the labour market problem. This is partly a problem that is felt everywhere, including in health care and education. The problem is not only that there is not enough money to hire people but also that there are vacancies, but it is very difficult to find very good people. This also puts pressure on the prison system, apart from the fact that there are a number of prisons, which I also think are still too high in absenteeism. This also puts extra pressure on institutions, so we are working hard to reduce it. But what we are presenting here and what we want can be done, even when it comes to the Reclassification. I shall come back to that in the third block a little more comprehensively. We have started the reclassification in a number of institutions. In the meantime, we have agreements with the Reclassification that they are everywhere, in all the institutions. We look at a number of places we do this on the basis of pilots or a bit more intensive work. We've arranged money for that for a number of years. If that works, you want to make it structural and roll out all over the Netherlands. The government agreement has budgeted for the reduction of recidivism: 20 million. We can do really good things with that in order to realise these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u84	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I am still looking for a way, perhaps the Minister will come back to this later, and we in the Chamber will then be able to keep a finger on the wrist, some kind of indicators and insight into whether the good intentions of this bill are actually achieved in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u85	I think that is very good and I think that can be done along two lines. I'm going to say something about the evaluation of this bill later. An amendment has been tabled on this subject. I think it's actually okay with every law to just look over time to see if it works out the way we intended it. The second line has to do with the vision of doing justice, offering opportunities. This vision is not just about the legal framework, but much more about: what does it require in terms of organisation? I inform you about the state of affairs every year. In doing so, we focus much more on the implementation. Last year the vision came true. I expect to be able to provide the first progress report in the very short term. If we do that every year, you'll keep calling me to the Chamber to talk about it. Mr. Chairman. I'm on parole. In the system, the three factors behavior, risk and victim interests play a role. We are slowly but surely seeing, even when granting conditional release, in practice a cautious movement that way. This legislative proposal, in order to stop granting conditional release by law, can also really bring that approach further into its own right and be developed. I think that is important for two reasons. Firstly, it leads to a better connection with the whole system of phasing out detention. It is ensured that the vi fits well with other forms of leave. Secondly, it is important that it is really an individual consideration. So it shouldn't be automatic unless you go to court to rescind it. We need to say from the very beginning to inmates: your behavior and how you make up your mind, and we're going to see for you and for everyone separately whether you qualify for it. At the moment, an inmate goes after two thirds of his sentence with conditional release, unless there is a reason under the law not to let him go with vi. Soon this will be an independent decision, in which the prosecution finally takes a decision. I was just talking about the better balance I am pursuing with this bill. The proposal to extend the period of validity to two years, at least for more than six years, should also be seen in this light. A better balance therefore means that more and better justice is given to the prison sentence imposed. This means that freedoms should not last longer than is necessary for the purpose for which they are granted. Freedoms should therefore not be discussed until the end of detention. They're not in my eyes right now. At the moment, a prisoner can be released on parole for up to ten years before the end of his sentence. And the question is, can we justify that? And the second question is, is it necessary? In my view, it doesn't do justice to the custodial sentence. I also think that we cannot properly explain to society that such long deadlines are really necessary for the purpose that we want to achieve with conditional release, namely the resocialisation of prisoners and thus the prevention of recidivism. So it's not just a sentiment or gut feeling; no, it's obviously not a goal that the vi lasts so long with long sentences. The starting point remains that conditional release can be granted after two thirds of the prison sentence, but that it is limited to two years. Mr Van der Staaij asked: why are you holding on to those two thirds for the shorter sentences, and can't you make a quarter of that? I wouldn't be for that. The countermould that I find that with long sentences now the period is very long, would be that you would go to a shorter period with shorter sentences, while perhaps you could use that time in vi. So it's about the longer sentences, over six years old. Also to put it in perspective, I say that there are about 100 convictions per year of that caliber. In my view, a two-year period is sufficient and is consistent with the average duration of the probationary period. It's one and a half to two years old, according to the D.A.'s figures. This is also supported by the way practice looks at it. Two weeks ago, I read an article in the newspaper of Professor P.O. Van der Laan. He said, six months after the release, the surveillance will drop, and everything will go according to plan. A kind of natural course, on which I also heard Mrs Van Toorenburg hitting. Since these two years are basically sufficient, I did not opt for a more stepped-up system, as Mrs Kuik asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u86	The fact that for most prisoners a period of two years is sufficient is, of course, not an argument for opting for a maximum period of time in the law, because I do not think that you are doing justice to precisely the most complicated cases. And not only do I believe that this is not relevant to me, but also to the Council of Justice, the Council of State and Reclassification Netherlands. In fact, all the experts say: Maximising that deadline... The Minister now cites one professor who says it is enough for most people, but on the other hand all the criticism from the practice of not the least, who say it is an unwise proposal. Then I find it a little strange that the Minister is getting over this a little easy and says 'I choose to do this, because it is enough for the average prisoner'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u87	Two answers to that. In many of the responses we received to a previous version of this bill, especially at the first consultation, there was a lot of criticism about this point. But at the same time it focused very much on what we do at the end of the sentence with conditional release. I don't think that's fair, because you have to look at what we're doing in its entirety. From day one, we're already working on resocialization. You should also look at how short-term and long-term leave is handled. Here too, we are changing things and broadening things here and there. I think that's important to give. Two. We also listened, of course. Take the Reclassation, which is an important partner and who also knows about it. If you put the consultation version next to the present legislative proposal, you will see that on long-term leave you will really be working with a much longer period. You can also see that in the last letter from Reclassaging Netherlands the point of the shorter vi does not come back. That's how it goes: we talk, we sit around the table. I want a workable system and in my view there is something that can work out really well in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u88	The Minister jumps over the point by involving the whole law. That wasn't the question I asked. I will take this particular point out. I have just heard a speech about the whole of the law for 25 minutes, with good and less good points. This is a question about the maximation of the deadline. No one, not even in that independent investigation, came to the conclusion that it would be a very good idea to limit the deadline to two years. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The minister says, "I can't explain it to society." Can the Minister comment on that point? Why does he not see it as his role to explain to society that it is very good to have a stick behind the door, even more so, to perhaps have a very long stick behind the door for the most difficult cases? I believe that this is the task of the Minister of Justice. He must explain to society that it is in the interests of the security of that same society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u89	I do. I'll do it where I can explain. This bill does not delete the conditional release. We are holding a conditional release, and I hope that a lot of prisoners will be eligible for this, because that means that in the pre-vi route we have managed to achieve a positive behavior influence, so that someone really, really, really puts his best foot forward, so to speak. It's not supposed to reduce that now. We have the objective of making people return better. What I can't explain is why we need a parole period of eight or ten or six years. That doesn't fit in with the practice. Then when you see that it really affects people's sense of justice, that they don't understand it either, and I also can't explain why you need such a long period for good socialisation, that's a reason to say: Maximize it in two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u90	I understand that the Minister says: if you criticize the restriction of conditional release, you have to look at the whole system, including everything we are going to do during detention. I understand that, but at the same time that is a hypothetical situation, which also raises serious questions as to its practical feasibility. So I really wonder why the Minister has chosen to regulate the limitation of conditional release already in this bill. We could also have started with this new system of resocialization from day one, after which we will see how that goes. You could therefore reduce the conditional release in the second instance. But to me, it still feels a bit like horse medicine and premature. We don't call it a locket for nothing. We could have taken it as a final step in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u91	In my view, it is not some kind of theoretical exercise, as Mr Van den Berge says. We have examined the whole system of leave and granting freedoms. On the vi it gets a little shorter, at least with the very long sentences. I think that's justified. On a number of parts it gets a bit longer or more intense. We roll that out a bit wider across the Netherlands, for example the possibility to work for the vi outside the walls in the last year. We talked to Jan and everyone else about that. When I look at that whole system, I am convinced that it must work very well. Then, of course, you have a number of risk cases: what if you run into that two-year period or what if someone behaves badly during the entire detention and still faces the end of his sentence? I can say something about this later, because there are a number of other legal instruments that you can apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u92	I believe that it has been very carefully considered and that the system is very good in theory. I sincerely hope it will work in practice, but we do not know that yet. We have seen with many system changes, whether education or care, that anything can go wrong in practice. That is why I wonder why we have now chosen to restrict conditional release. Why isn't there more room for customization by judges, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u93	However, a judge does not determine when the conditional release will take effect or be applied. Here and there there is talk of an automatism, but that may be a bit overwhelmed. It is now automatically after two thirds of the prison sentence. It's not like a judge can order this to be later. No, this is the standing practice. I said: try to apply more customization by making it an individual decision based on many other things in the past. So that customization is just in there. I think you should at the same time look at how much time you actually need to let the vi do its job effectively. With shorter sentences, under six years old, I would really like to hold on to that one-third and not limit that further. But over six years, it sometimes goes so far as to say that I can no longer say that this is really necessary in order to prevent recurrence. That's where I brought goal and instrument closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u94	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u95	Mr. Chairman. The SGP has tabled an amendment aimed at making the judge aware in his judgment of whether the prisoner is eligible for either conditional release or a penitentiary programme in view of the length of his sentence. There is then a general reference to how this period is calculated. I am not opposed to this in principle, but I think we should take a very good look at how that happens. That has to do with two things. On the one hand, that's the technique. For example, it is a question of calculating a fictitious vi-date. With a set of penalties, that's quite a puzzle job. I don't want a judge to make mistakes. For another part, that is, I think, a justified point made by Mrs Van Toorenburg, the point is that a judge may be able to state that at some point the period of eligibility for conditional release may begin, but whether or not that will actually be the case depends on behaviour, risks to society and victim interests. We have to look very closely at how we do this without causing accidents or expectations that we cannot live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u96	Is that also an opinion on the amendment? I think this is about the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u97	Now I'm puzzled with the songs. I'm just looking hopefully at... It's number...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u98	... 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u99	It's number 14. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, with the remark that we really need to look at how we do it in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u100	I think that the criticism made by the Minister of the amendment is quite fundamental. So shouldn't we agree to turn it around after all? That at least someone does not get a certain period of freedom and that anything can happen afterwards. Now it's kind of a horizon of "you're probably getting out" and people are really getting expectations from that. That's not good. Maybe we'll change an arrangement one more time, and then we'll all be there together. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u101	I agree with you, but when I look at this amendment, I believe that it also offers scope to find a sensible way in which to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u102	In any case, thank you for the Minister's positive response to the objective. I tasted the same with Mrs Van Toorenburg. It has also made another suggestion to at least make it clear which part of the sentence is served without reservation. That helps for the vi part, but not for the penitentiary program. I am certainly prepared to look again at the technique to see how it can be designed in the best possible way. Let me have said that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u103	This means that an amended version of the amendment may be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u104	That's right. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u105	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u106	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to dwell on the amendment tabled by the members of the SGP on the coincidence of judgments. That is the amendment in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 15. The addition of short custodial sentences in determining the vi-date has been discussed more often, also in connection with previous amendments of the SGP. This amendment proposes adding to the penalties imposed subsequently, i.e. after each other in combination, but calculating the vi-date only on those parts that would already be granted vi. The penalties which do not qualify for the VI in themselves therefore do not count. I see that this amendment is more limited in scope than similar SGP amendments submitted to the USB Act. I am afraid that my opinion will remain the same, at least when this amendment was considered negative. The problem, in my view, is that the proposal - and I am doing it very briefly - means that someone with multiple penalties can be put together for a considerable period of time. If you don't count an orderly vi, you actually don't have enough opportunities in that detention phase to get that part right. Whatever with these people, if they sit for a long time, can be relevant for a good socialization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u107	That is the point of the amendment. 15 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u108	I would like to remove misconceptions about the vi, if there were penalty reductions. That is not the case at present and certainly not the case in this new bill. It's just part of the final execution of the sentence. I have just said a few things about the two-year period. Then there was the question of whether we are really going to impose lower penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u109	Another interruption by Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u110	The minister says that the vi, the parole, is not a penalty discount, but part of the sentence. That will be formally correct, but can the Minister explain whether a criminal who can actually sit in a cell. I think: should be sitting........................................................................................................................................ Can the Minister outline what the daily life of such a criminal in vi looks like? What's he different from the one who looks at him than the one who's not in vi? Both walk freely on the street, both can go to the supermarket, both can walk freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u111	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u112	I'd like some more context on why that's part of the sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u113	It's already in the word itself. It's a pre-war release. So you're free, you're not in jail anymore, but it's parole. You have to meet certain conditions that a free person doesn't have to meet. It may then be a notification obligation, or a location ban or an order. It could be a whole bunch of shit. I'm referring to the bill. This means you have to stick to that. If you don't stick to it, this means you can be recalled to prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u114	How does the minister estimate that the criminal himself will experience it? Will he experience it as a real punishment, or just as freedom? How does the minister think society, the common Dutchman, will look at it when he sees such a rapist walking around the supermarket? Will the ordinary Dutchman think: hey, there I see someone on parole? Or will he think: that's someone who walks around in freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u115	Again, the word says it already. It's a release. Someone is outside prison and is therefore basically free, and if he complies with all kinds of conditions, he can also enjoy that freedom. So if someone behaves properly, adheres to the conditions and shows that he wants to take advantage of the second chance offered to him in a good way, he may not experience those conditions as a huge burden. But at the same time, perhaps, that is what we want to achieve: someone who has committed an incredibly stupid mistake in his life and has done so, who at some point comes to his senses and seizes that second chance with both hands when he goes outside. At the same time, we want to be able to intervene if people fail to do so, or if they fail to do so, and if they fail to do so again. That's the other part of parole. It is not unbiased, but it does offer opportunities for intervention. Mr. Chairman. Will judges then take into account this change of law? Let me say the following. The conditional release is part of the execution of a prison sentence and is not a form of penalty reduction; I say it again. In my view, therefore, it is not obvious that judges will be punished lower as a result of this bill. In addition, the judge shall determine the penalty on the basis of the person of the suspect and the seriousness of the offence. That's what the judge has to check on. Therefore, the court does not review the manner of enforcement or the expected course of detention. In addition, for example, it is quite possible in the current regime that conditional release will not be dealt with until later or even at all. That is something that is already uncertain when it comes to imposing the penalty. That will be the case later. This means that under the current regime a judge can already take into account that the prisoner is in prison for more than two thirds of his sentence. Let me also say that this is certainly not the intention of this bill. I trust that we are living in a rule of law and that this will be taken into account in the punishment and the imposition of sanctions on the magnificent side of the rule of law, where the laws will eventually be reviewed, where the letter of the law, but also what the legislator meant by it, will be taken into account. Of course I know the discussion. And judges are also independent. But we also had this discussion, for example, when we converted the early release into conditional release, which also contained an aggravating element. It was also said that all this was taken and taken into account. However, I have not seen any research to back that up. So I don't think it's gonna take that kind of flight here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u116	You will be interrupted by Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u117	I have a question about that. The Council of Justice and also the parole organisations have warned about this earlier. Those who say: a judge makes gross/net weighings; which weighs how much of the sentence is likely to be served in detention and which part of the sentence is subject to conditional release. The Minister suspects that it will not happen, but it is very renowned organisations and experts who warn us that it could well happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u118	Look, what I read in there is that they don't say: it happens or this is the result. They point to a risk. Judges are, of course, always free in the balance of interests and take everything into account. But we're not lowering the penalty limits. They're gonna stay the same. Even now, judges have to look at the seriousness of the fact in all its circumstances. Even now, a judge cannot predict the execution of a sentence. Even now, even if this happens in 10% of cases, conditional release cannot be granted at all. So the question is whether this is really going to have a big effect. That is why I would like to stress once again once again that it is intended for the legislator and all of us, not to achieve a penalty reduction but to achieve another execution of the prison sentence, which does more justice to the sentence that has been imposed, i.e. a less long conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u119	I'm just thinking. The Minister is, of course, right. The Council of Justice does not say that it is going to happen, but I do not think the Minister can say that it is not going to happen. That's the tricky part. We are talking here about a hypothetical situation, about a new system that is not yet in place. So it remains a concern at the moment, unless the Minister has very strong indications or investigations, but I do not think there can be them because it is a hypothetical situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u120	Sure, and that's the way it is with every law, of course. We need to see how it works out. Also on this part we're going to keep the finger on the wrist. But I really have no strong reason to suspect that this effect is going to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u121	An interruption by Mr Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I attach great importance to the independence of the judiciary. I am aware that the statements made by the Minister in this Chamber will be taken into account in the coming years, including in the judiciary. That is good, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to further monitor this section over the next few years and, if necessary, report to the Chamber if that effect will occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u123	Of course, because it would be an unintentional effect of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u124	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mr. Chairman. Mr Hiddema asked: why do we not maxim in four years? I have just said a few things about this. I also see that Mr Hiddema is no longer in the Chamber. I think two years is more in line with the reality of what you really need to go through that vi in a good way with the parole. Questions have also been asked about groups at risk, and I understand that all too well. As in current practice, a prisoner may continue to pose a security risk towards the end of his sentence, even after the end of the vi-term. This may be a case in which, despite the granting of all kinds of freedoms during the execution of the sentence, e.g. leave and vi, it is estimated that the convicted person will continue to pose a risk. It may also be that a convicted person for that consideration did not go with conditional release, for example because he was too high a risk or refused to cooperate with the vi, the so-called calculators. Before I go into the measures that we are taking for this group in order to be able to monitor at the end of the prison sentence and to continue to accompany the convicted person, a number of words about those calculators. Mrs Van Toorenburg put it well. I really do not think it is likely that many prisoners will choose not to go with vi by not declaring themselves willing to comply with the conditions attached to the vi, in order to avoid the possibility of extending probation with the vi. This means that you will voluntarily be stuck for another two years, but the non-cooperation also affects the granting of all kinds of other external freedoms at an earlier stage of prison. Moreover, the extension of that probation, which can only be done if you have really had vi, is not yet a running race. There's still a judicial test to be done. So you really have to ask yourself whether because of the risk that the probationary period could possibly be extended, the prisoner would choose to stay longer in detention. Two years is a really long time. I know from current practice and the available data of the Public Prosecutor's Office and probation one case of an inmate who, in his own words, did not go with vi, but served the entire sentence because of the possibility that the probationary period was extended. You always have to see how to weigh that. Our experience is that prisoners who say in advance that they are considering not going with vi declare themselves more willing to cooperate as the date of vi approaches. By the way, the discussions that, for example, parole with a detainee at such a time play a very important and positive role. There is an amendment by the SGP on the automatic granting of the VI. That is the amendment to item No. 18. It is about the mandatory imposition of behavioral and freedom-limiting measures. Here it is. I can understand very well the thought behind that amendment. No, I'll come back to that later. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the framework of the Long-Term Supervision Act. Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Kuik, among others, spoke about this. For people who are not eligible for the VI they point to the WLT as a possible solution. I understand that very well and I see it that way myself. There are two possible ways of doing this. The first is the possibility of extending the probationary period. We just talked about that. The other is the independent behavioral and freedom-limiting measure, the GVM. Contrary to the extension of the probationary period, the CSM is also at issue if no conditional release has been granted. It may be imposed in the event of a conviction for a serious offence. 30 days before the end of detention, the prosecution may claim enforcement of this measure. The measure may be implemented in cases where there is a risk that the convicted person will again commit a serious violence or sexual crime, or where this is necessary to prevent serious incriminating behaviour towards victims or witnesses. A number of conditions can be attached to the CSM. Think of an obligation to be included in a health care institution, an obligation to be treated or to participate in behavioural interventions, or restrictions on freedom of movement such as a ban on establishment. If you violate those terms, you may still be in remand. That's a stick behind the door. You don't need a penance for that. That was just a reminder of the amendment I was referring to. On the basis of this amendment, I can understand it very well. We now know what the GVM, the behavioral and freedom-limiting measure stands for. By the way, I don't know who ever made this term up. The CSM must be imposed. It must be imposed on the conviction for the crime. We've only recently been working with this new law. So we need to see how this works out. The purpose of this amendment is to oblige the court to impose it. I find that difficult, because that limits the room for a judge. I suspect that this is a rather controversial point if that were to come into this law. I can imagine that the Council of State will agree with that and that perhaps it may come back from across the street, the Upper House. I think it's a pretty draconian, pretty far-reaching measure. I'd actually like to make a counter-proposal. I am going to discourage this amendment, but I would like to talk to the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor about the awareness of the GVM which is actually being applied for in these cases in criminal proceedings and imposed so that we make more efforts on the front to do so in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u126	Mr Van der Staaij has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u127	If the Minister says that he wants to look at it and discuss it, the problem is that the legal process will be over and that, if there were an omission in practice, you would not be able to restore it retroactively. Is it not possible to clarify this in the short term, even before we vote on the law? You could also ask the question whether this is really so draconian. Mrs Kuik and I do not say with this amendment that the judge should always impose this and that this should be done. However, as the prosecution now has to determine on conditional release what conditions exactly are going to apply, you actually create a hook in the law that it also happens in these cases without vi. In my view, it is not a real restriction on the freedom of the judge, but it is something that normally results from the system of the law. Now you're actually doing that through a slightly artificial reasoning.I admit that and because that's very difficult to determine directly, you try to put a hook in the law for that. That is actually what we are trying to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u128	May I add a supplement to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u129	It's unusual, but I hope that's gonna save time, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u130	I also hope that the Minister understands that I originally had the wish to always impose GVM. But that is not what this amendment calls for. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u131	I am going to study the amendment just as carefully for the second term, because I do understand the feeling of discomfort. I think that the Wlt offers new opportunities, but it should be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u132	Shall we come back to that in the second term? Otherwise, we're going to discuss it again, while you want to study it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u133	You're right. I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u134	Do you agree, Mrs Van Toorenburg? Or do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u135	Long-term, but he's one of them. I indicated in my first term that it is also worrying that long-term supervision cannot be imposed when there is no probationary period at all, namely no vi at all. Can the Minister also take with him how that can be done when this construction is being looked at? Because somewhere we're looking for a solution to that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u136	Yeah, I'm quite willing to do that. It also affects another point that you raised, for example when it comes to the prohibition of establishment. Can you do anything towards the end of the administrative sentence? Of course, that's always difficult, because you can't relate it twice to a conviction. You can't be convicted twice for the same crime. But this is more of a preventive measure. It's separate from the GVM again. I have already promised you that I will look into what is happening in Belgium in this area and that I will come back to you at that point in the summer with a letter on what has been achieved by this search.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u137	Good. In addition, in the second term, the Minister will return to the amendment on item No. 18. Would you like to continue your argument? There are two other amendments which have not yet been given an opinion, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 12 and 13. The amendment in part No. 12 by Mr Van den Berge is also about conditional release. The amendment in part No. 13 was actually about your first block, but it's also nice when the Chamber gets a judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u138	Yes, with the amendment to item No. 12 we're actually going back to the old situation. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. The amendment in part No. 13 assumes the retention of the penitentiary program in addition to conditional release. I should also like to advise against this, because it leads to an unnecessary accumulation of modalities. This is also one of the points raised in the Erasmus University report. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u139	There is still a question from Mr Van den Berge. I hope we can get to the third block after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u140	Short, Mr. Chairman. I have another question about the amendment to item No. 13. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. Indeed, I have said enough already. In the current situation there is indeed a build-up of modalities, but precisely because of this limitation of conditional release, this accumulation will of course be reduced. I have also tabled this amendment for the following reason. I can count and I know that the limitation of conditional release is contained in the government agreement, so I assume it will be adopted by the Chamber. In any case, I would like to keep these penitentiary programmes, because I think they are very much in line with the intentions of the law, namely to start re-socialization and reintegration as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u141	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u142	I do not understand very well why the amendment to item No. 13 is not recommended. That is the point of the amendment to item No. 12 is not a surprise, to be honest, but it is a surprise when it comes to Amendment No 12. 13. Kind of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u143	There's a very strange twist in it, because with the penitentiary program you're just outside, even before parole. You're gonna have a crazy situation. I heard Mrs Van Toorenburg refer to it. You go out first and then the D.A.'s gonna decide if you can go out for your vi. I just don't think that's a logical order. With this bill I have tried to say that you have to save the pp for shorter sentences and where there is conditional release you have to look at the long-term leave or, for example, at work from the institution. On that part we are broadening a few things. We were just having a discussion with Mr Grothuizen. He asked if it might not have to be extended a little bit. Then we'll look at the letter from the parole board. I am not opposed to this, but I am opposed to the re-introducing of the pp in combination with the vi. Perhaps support for Mr Grothuizen's amendment could be something you can join.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u144	The Minister continues his speech. He's at the end of block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u145	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We were just talking about calculators and how we estimate that, about the possibilities we have under the Long-Term Supervision Act, but also within the Forensic Care Act, for example, when it comes to forced admission into a psychiatric center, where someone is a danger because he has a mental disorder. Then, six weeks before the end of the judicial title, preparations must be made for continued care. This is preferably voluntary care, but it may also mean that a healthcare provider will turn to the Public Prosecutor for a care authorisation, i.e. for a more forced form of care. That too is something that will come into sight at the end of a vi-period, regardless of the idea that this legislative proposal also aims, of course, to achieve much better cooperation with the parties outside the prison system, for example the municipality. In the context of the debate on the Michael P. case, I have already indicated that, for example, I want to greatly improve and broaden the aid scheme. In any case, the possibilities for data exchange on risks are being widened. There is an obligation on the parties to do so if there is a risk that a prisoner could commit a serious violent crime or sexual assault. These are all additional instruments, additional hooks in this law, which make this cooperation better and more possible. Finally, Mr Van Nispen asked whether I would like to map out all the options. I'd like to take that glove, too. This is the interface that I think there will still be a lot to do in the years to come. Mr Drost asked the Chamber to be informed immediately if there are any real signals about calculators. Then we're not gonna sit around and wait for a law review. I'm telling you. I don't expect it to happen, but if it does, we do need to intervene and I'll come your way right away. Mr Van Nispen asked about lifelong supervision. This is one of the possibilities under the Long-Term Monitoring Act. That is not necessarily linked to a legal deadline. This can be extended over and over again with a periodic check, if the judge deems it necessary. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a brief word on the coherence of different conditional modalities. I believe that there has been a further submission on this subject. I've already said something about the overlap and the unwanted accumulation. I have just given an opinion on the amendment on the penitentiary programme. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij has asked questions about the penitentiary programme. There were also positive opportunities, for example to work, to receive training, to receive care or to work on behavioural interventions that are so specialised that you sometimes have to go outside. He's asking if that's gonna be preserved. The answer to that is yes. This can be done through reintegration leave. This is particularly possible in the case of long-term leave. Mr Van der Staaij is a bit of a specialist on this subject because of the many work he has done on an initiative which, of course, is very touching. I understand that, too. He also asked about the probation. In theory, this can be more beneficial for a prisoner, in the sense that the suspended part is or could be shorter than the VI period. In that case, someone like that would be stuck longer. In my view, that doesn't have to be difficult in the base, because the judge knows it too. This is also supported by the Erasmus University report. A judge shall take this into account when imposing a sentence in a judgment. Mr Van der Staaij also asked whether a further simplification between the vi and the suspended sentence would still be possible. That's the same point as the theory and practice. You can, of course, look at it if there is a real problem in practice. Research carried out by Erasmus University actually shows that judges are reasonably able to cope with these differences, especially in the case of lower sentences where the probationary sentence is a possibility. In my view, this should not necessarily lead to problems. Then there is the other point, about the possibility of circumvention. We were just talking about the calculators who would spend longer in prison to avoid extending their probation. It asked what would happen as long as a verdict was not irrevocable. Because then certain parts cannot be applied. The problem of lifting the provisional detention without a conditional framework of vi is largely resolved by this legislative proposal, since the VI is no longer automatically renewed. That means that the judge is no longer forced to lift the provisional detention of a non-religious convicted person on the fictitious vi-date. We're gonna take most of it with this. Additional arrangements are included in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In doing so, we look at the possibilities for the courts in different situations not to lift the provisional detention, as it should now, but to suspend it under conditions, so that a conditional framework and supervision are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u146	An interruption by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u147	A brief question, Mr President, because this debate does not lend itself to further discussion. The question is about parole and parole. I want to see if you can't simplify that even further. Is this something on which the Minister can say that the evaluation will review whether this could have a positive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u148	You could take that into the law review, but I'll get back to you on that later. There is a proposal to evaluate the law in, for example, five and ten years from now, at two times. Then, just as Erasmus University has now done for the current system, we can, of course, also see whether judges can still work with it. I think that's a good point. Then we'll take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u149	Thank you for the commitment to include this issue explicitly in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u150	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u151	Mr. Chairman. For your information, I've completed blocks 1 and 2. Then I come to the block that deals with everything related to organization, capacity, cooperation, actually with one big thing: implementation, with a big line underneath it. I fully agree with what Mrs Van Toorenburg said: it is a law, it is all nice and nice, but whether it is going to fly also depends on how it takes shape in practice. A few things are important here, namely the organisations themselves, but also the cooperation between them. Trajectory and interventions that have been used in detention, for example, should be able to continue well after detention. This means that different parties must have the information to do so. I announced earlier, last year, that this information should be improved, for example in the area of the five conditions. But we have also said very recently, in connection with the debate on Michael P., that we may need to do this even further, at the intersection of safety and care. This bill contributes to this in both areas. Firstly, this is done by addressing the problem, putting the five basic conditions in order, and the need to exchange good information on it. Secondly, this is done through the management and prevention of risks to society and the exchange of information on them. Mr. Chairman. To start with the information exchange: there was a question about the possibility of exchanging medical data. I think it is right to distinguish between the data we are going to exchange in relation to security risks, risks to society, and the data we are going to exchange for the five basic conditions, such as income, house and so on. Let me start with the first thing: the risks. Yes, it will be possible to exchange medical data without the consent of the inmate. With this law, we are now creating a legal basis for this. That was my letter of amendment which, after the debate on Michael P., went to your Chamber. That is why I think it is important that we speed this up. It is clear that I think it is really necessary to exchange this information if a prisoner is at risk. I am referring, of course, to the risk that a prisoner will commit a serious sexual or violent crime. Then why do we choose a duty? I have chosen this very deliberately, not only because of the risk, but also because I believe that all authorities should know that there can no longer be any obstacle to sharing that information and data. I think it's best to make it mandatory. This is a different matter for the exchange of information on the five basic conditions. We are not creating a duty for this, but we are creating a competence. This is perhaps partly due to the seriousness of the situation, although good reintegration is of course also very important. In these five sub-areas the question is: what information is one party going to share with the other? A safety risk may be a dossier, an indication of the risk, a risk assessment. For example, with data needed to arrange a benefit, a roof over your head and work well, this is much wider and much more diffuse. If you impose a duty to do so, many of these authorities will ask: can you please specify exactly what I am obliged to share? I just find that more complicated. That is why we have made this a competence, so that there is also room for different bodies to see what they themselves consider necessary and need to do so in a good way. Mr. Chairman. We've been asked about the administrative agreement. We'll close it soon. It is a cooperation agreement between DJI, the municipalities and the parole institutions, in which we agree on how we really will work together better in practice. It is then about getting these five basic conditions in order, building or strengthening a good network around prisoners and working more repair-oriented and victim-consciously. They are agreements with partners that we desperately need and that are going to contribute to this. Then I'd like to zoom in on some of the organizations. Let me start with the state's attorney's office. Mr. Groothuizen referred to the fact that with the adoption of the USB Act, the entry into force will take place in a few months' time, we have made more execution decisions with the Department, with me, and less with the Public Prosecutor's Office. He asked whether it would be logical, for example, to deposit the decision on vi with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In my eyes, yes. In the USB Act, we have also chosen to retain a solid role for the Public Prosecutor's Office. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office is responsible for monitoring compliance with all conditional frameworks. In the event of a violation, there may be deprivation of liberty. If I have to make the choice to leave it at my ministry or elsewhere, I'm actually choosing to assume a more magnificent role, namely that of the Public Prosecutor. I think that's more appropriate. The SGP has tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u152	There is an interruption by Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u153	The question was twofold. With regard to the relationship with the USB Act, the Minister says: I do see a certain logic. But the point was also the other way around, because to what extent is the Public Prosecutor's Office now independent in its position to make this assessment? You always depend on the information from the primary partners. That applies to the facility and to the parole. I used to be an officer myself: you're just waiting for those reports. Actually, you can't do that much on your own. Those two elements make you doubt the logic of the choice for the D.A.'s office. I must say straight away that I do not have a great alternative yet. But does the Minister see that it is not just about the relationship with the USB Act, but also about the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u154	Of course, you're gonna need a file. It's an important phase in the detention phase. It's the moment someone leaves prison. Then it's okay that there's an extra check on that. It is also the time when, especially in the heavier cases, we sometimes have the advisory committee advise whether it is justified to release a person on parole. Then I'd rather have the D.A. do that than have me or my officials do that. Of course, some things have to be said. There's a file to be made. There's a lot to collect. But I'd rather that test be done there. Mr Van den Berge's question on this point is, of course, that of course: should you not go in a completely different direction, with a judicial review? I am not in favour of that either, and that is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 10, precisely because I believe that the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is closer to the execution, actually has a very good position to do so and because there is no new detention title. This concerns the enforcement of penalties already imposed by the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u155	Minister, could I ask you to speed up your response? 'Cause we're running a lot late. I am therefore not going to allow the next interruption. I will only allow interruptions at the end of the Minister's term, otherwise we will have to finish the debate this evening. The Minister has the floor and answers the last questions he would like to answer in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u156	Then I will also turn to the amendments and the most pressing questions that have been asked. Maybe I'll skip something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u157	Mr President, I am particularly sorry about the agenda. I think we are being reasonable about interrupting. You may think differently, but it has been mentioned by one of the coalition people as the most important law of this minister. I find it rather complicated to feel that a lot of questions are not going to be answered in a moment and that we are about to go through this important law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u158	I have promised you that at the end of the Minister's term you will be able to ask questions to which you would like an answer for the second term. But if I let it go now, it's gonna be really late before we can even start the next debate at all. We are just before the recess and this debate must take place for a number of reasons. That's why I'm going to step in this way. And this takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u159	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Your order proposal also took time. I simply think that the questions asked should be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u160	I maintain my proposal and ask the Minister to speed up the answer to the questions he thinks it is crucial that they are answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u161	I'm gonna do the best I can. The SGP has tabled an amendment on the withdrawal of the VI, including in the law that if a convicted person commits a criminal offence or violates the special conditions, this leads to withdrawal. I think it is fine to follow that line, and I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. That is the amendment to item No. 16. I just said something about the judge's test. The parole board. We need to avoid that there are interests in this heavy advisory committee, but I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I would like to see whether we can also gain good knowledge and expertise in the area of victims. For example, what does a certain freedom or proximity of an unsub do with the relatives and the victims? So I want not only scholars, but also ordinary people who have knowledge of experience and who can take this into account in the advice of the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u162	Mr. Markuszower, I won't allow any more interruptions. At the end of the Minister's term, you can ask another question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u163	Is it a task increase for the D.A.'s office? Oh, yeah. Compensation? Yes. That has been included in the budget. It's in there. This is, by the way, rather limited; it concerns a number of FTEs. The DJI is another big organization. This bill will, of course, have great influence there. We've had an impact analysis done. This shows that the DJI staff bill leads to a reduction in the number of regime decisions and an increase in the number of leave decisions. So there is sometimes more and sometimes less work in it. But, of course, we have to invest in training. We need to invest in human resources, and that is why we are taking the time to implement the bill. It'll start a year after it's adopted. When it comes to a number of tasks and what you can do with more case management and more risk screening, it is not that we roll that out directly across the DJI and across the full width. We are just running pilots to learn what its impact is on the organisation and how we can do it in a good way. Then we can also choose the elements that work really well. Here too, these things cost money. But we have 20 million available for the return of recidivism, and a very good part of it can and will be used for these matters. Mr Van Nispen asked about the workload. I see that point. We're talking about that with the unions at the table. We also made a covenant, just to invest in craftsmanship. We've allocated $25 million four times for that. I say to Mr Van Nispen that it is also a bit difficult, not because we do not have that money on the shelf, but because you have to arrange for replacement if you want to send people with training. We have money for this replacement, but at the moment it is just very difficult to get good staff because of the current labour market. But of course we do so in good consultation with works councils and trade unions. Questions have been asked about the necessary capacity, partly by Mrs Kuik, partly by Mr Van Wijngaarden. Yeah, we always take margins into account. I believe that the margins last year, when we closed a number of institutions, were about 2,000 places. Those spots are there. We're really not up against those margins yet. We have already taken into account the additional pressure on capacity involved. After all, if people are going to spend a longer period of time of their punishment within the walls, in prison, it will of course have an effect on the necessary capacity, but that is included. There were concerns about transitional rights. We have tried to strike a good balance between legal certainty towards prisoners and the workability of the prison system. The starting point for the detention phase is: immediate application. In principle, the penitentiary programme is subject to immediate effect, but two exceptions have been made; for example, if the pp has already been started or if someone has a residual sentence of less than three years at the time of entry into force. Those are the people who are heading towards the end of their punishment, which we believe is why you should no longer change the rules of the game. That means, de facto, a three-year transition period, and of course, we must communicate it well with the people in the workplace. Then there were questions from Mr Groothuizen about healthcare professionals. Have we taken care of that properly? The costs are included in the cell price. This means that the budget also takes into account the additional places we need and thus the additional need for basic care. In addition, there is of course always the possibility to post in the case of specialist care. Then you're gonna appeal to forensic care. As you have seen in the Spring Paper, we take into account that we will lose a number of millions more in the coming years. So there's room for growth in that. Then the parole hearing. My ambition is, once again, to cooperate much more with the probation, not only after the punishment, but also during the punishment. They are now present in all institutions, after a number of successful experiments have been completed. The next period I want to use to get a clearer picture where that probation surveillance really makes the difference. How can you really best fill out the collaboration between probation and piss? Of course, you have short-term or longer-term punishments. We also need to see how we use this capacity in a good way. That is why there are a number of pilots running in that area, after which we can make final decisions. There is then an amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij, the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 11. That says: Involve in making D&R plans the probation, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. I do think that is reasonable on the point of parole, a reason why we added it to the new proposed article of law on D&R plans in the letter of amendment that has been tabled. But I think that the opinions of the judiciary, i.e. the judiciary and the public prosecutor, are somewhat different. I don't immediately see what that adds. I would therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u164	I allow you to interrupt because it is an amendment and the judgment on it, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u165	Just to make sure we understand each other well. The law already states that these opinions are sought from the judge and the prosecutor's office. We'll just add the parole to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u166	Then I'm gonna go get him, 'cause then I misunderstood this. Then I shall return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u167	Then we hear the judgment. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u168	Mr. Chairman. As we move forward, I have already answered more in interruptions. That's okay. The leaves only increase this way. The amendment in part No. 9 is an evaluation after five and after ten years. I'm fine with that, so judgment room. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked whether we would speed up the criminalisation of escape from prisons. As far as I'm concerned, yes. On the basis of the investigation under way, I will come to your Chamber immediately after the summer with a concrete proposal. I do not exclude that in the series of world-shattering events in the meantime perhaps our Dutch ladies have become world champions in France and that can then be added to Mr Van Wijngaarden's list. I've already said a few things about cell capacity. I have also said something about the requirement to move and the ban on living in the direction of Mrs Van Toorenburg. Then labor. Let me be very clear: I find work in prison incredibly important. I also want to focus on more work. That is precisely why we are currently looking at what we can do with more hours of work in a number of prisons. The amendment to the bill is actually intended to do the following. We see that in the case of short-term punishment in particular, it is sometimes more effective to look at other things. Someone comes in with a huge problem: addiction care, debt or other problems. You can only spend an hour once. Then it sometimes makes more sense for a short-term punishment to work for successful reintegration and getting things in order instead of spending all day in the workplace. By making that more open in the law, we are offering the possibility of doing so. Can someone with vi go abroad? We added by letter of amendment that it could be made as an additional condition that this cannot be done. That's not generic. Let me give you an example. In Dutch prisons there are not only Dutch prisoners, but sometimes also prisoners from across the border. Do you have to go to someone, for example a Belgian, who has been in the Dutch prison and is in need of vi, who behaves neatly and who is also willing to meet all the conditions from his home in Belgium and to report to the Reclassing: and then you can't go there, in the meantime find only one house in the Netherlands? I think that's going a little far. Where we have the idea that someone is trying to emigrate to stay out of sight of justice and we find that undesirable, with this bill I abstract the possibility of imposing this as an additional condition. I think we understand each other very well. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about the concentration in courts. The D.A. would argue that. I know that point. We choose not to concentrate objections against not granting vi or postponing that decision now in one court, because these are also a bit of standing agreements as a starting point for all courts to be able to deal with all cases. We will see if a form of specialisation can be applied within courts, so that you can then put it down to judges who know things about these kinds of subjects. Can we get the sanction card? Fine, it's coming your way. Know that what we have done with the sanction card in connection with incidents of aggression and contraband is to introduce the maximum penalty in these areas. I think we should look seriously at this sanction card anyway: do we need it at all and should you not give much more room to staff and directors in the prison system to apply a very wide range of sanctions, of course within the limits of the law? But having said that, I think it is fine if you receive the interim adjusted sanction card. We'll talk about it later. Why are we holding on to multiple cells? That's a bit of a recurring discussion. I am aware of Mr Van Nispen's position. Not everyone is suitable for a multi-person cell, but I think that a cell like that is a normal cell. Where there are more people in a cell, staff needs to increase accordingly. The starting point is two staff members out of 24 detained prisoners. In some specialist departments there are even more staff. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u169	You still have an opinion to make on the amendment to item No. 10, by Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u170	The amendment in part No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u171	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u172	That's about the judge's full test of objections. I didn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u173	Okay. We didn't quite get that. Is there a need for Members to ask a final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u174	A few questions are still open. I wanted to hear from the Minister explicitly that this obligation to move is not only about minors who are victims of sexual violence, but certainly also about relatives of victims of violence. Furthermore, I had asked a complicated but very important question. In Volkert van der Graaf's case, the judge said that he no longer has to comply with those special conditions, because they are merely intended to prevent recidivism. It was never meant to be. So I would like to hear explicitly that the conditions we are now setting really serve a broader purpose, and that the Minister will keep us informed if that would unhoped otherwise. I had also asked how many different regimes are now mixed up and whether the prison system can handle it. And I also asked if an administrative agreement had been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u175	I did say something about the administrative agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u176	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u177	It'll be closed July 1st. Yes, the application of those conditions is wider. They see not only risks for society and repeated behaviour, but also the interests of victims, for example. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the three strokes we use here also apply there. And... That is always the disadvantage of a three-stroke, Mr President: I have now forgotten Mrs Van Toorenburg's first point. Yeah, I remember. An example is given in the explanatory memorandum, but these are serious matters. So it can really be broader than that one example we have quoted there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u178	My question is indeed about the amendment to item No. 10. I think the Minister was rather brief for the sake of time, but I would like to hear some more arguments for the fact that he thinks it is a bad idea. In particular, the Minister says why he does not agree with a number of sentences in the explanatory statement and why he does not agree with the withdrawal of liberty. Besides, I think it's freedom-absorbering. But I am particularly curious to see what is against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u179	I ask myself the question: which body can do this best and what is the most logical thing in the system? Well, then I'm gonna end up in the D.A.'s office. This has a better information position on this point than the ZM, despite the fact that the public prosecutor must also collect his information from a number of authorities. And I also think it's more appropriate to the nature of the decision. The judge imposes the penalty at the beginning, the prosecutor has a role to play in decisions on the enforcement of penalties. For me, therefore, these considerations are why I say: a full trial by the judge, even during the execution of the sentence, I find less appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u180	There is also an interruption by Mr Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u181	I have indicated that I am pleased with this personal approach in this bill, but I have also asked the Minister whether he is confident that he is employing sufficient and well-equipped people at the moment to implement these changes as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u182	I have absolute confidence in the capacity of the people in the prison system, but it will be a huge job. I hope that this proposal will be adopted before the summer, and hopefully it will also be adopted on the other side soon after the summer. Once that law has been passed, we have a year to start the preparations, but if we really want to do this right, everyone is asking a lot of it. At the same time, I think you can grow in a number of things as well. That law must stand and all the formal things in the law must of course be incorporated, but we must work on trust, on good cooperation with partners around the prison system, with parole, with municipalities and so on, etc. If we do it right, of course, it just gets better over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u183	My first question is a little in line with that, because we are actually discussing a law here that is or falls well in line with how we deal with it in the implementation, and we need sufficient and well-trained staff to do so. The Minister said: we have a lot of money for that; we have money for the Retreat Programme; we have 100 million for the whole cabinet period, so a number of million per year, for more staff, but we can't actually find the people. That was quite fast then, because of the pressure of time, but can the Minister go into more detail? We are supposed to vote for or against this law on Tuesday, when I do not yet have a perspective on how long these people can be found or whether they are adequately trained. I would also like to raise the question of whether the Minister can go into the administrative burden further, which may increase with the perhaps logical steps we are taking with this bill and with which prison staff are particularly affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u184	My goal is not to increase the administrative burden because of what we are doing here. Even now, files are being kept, even now, sanctions are being registered. I think that what we are doing today will enable us to make a good assessment of, for example, the extent to which behavior should or should not count: will that have a positive or negative effect on the granting of leave? That is the issue of administrative burdens. Two is the staff. At the moment we are working very hard to attract good people, not without success. Over the past year and a half, 1,200 new staff have been recruited for the prison system and DV&O. At the same time, people are leaving. Definitely attracted to good people. What we have to do is keep recruiting. It's not a problem of a shortage of money. We all need to show how much fun it is to work in prison. I think it's gonna be more fun working in prison with this law in hand. Because when I get into prison... Of course, there's complaining about the workload and you name it, but in the end it's all incredibly committed people. But they also say that we sometimes have very little resources in our hands to act where we find that people are really crossing the line. They get laughed at in the face sometimes. A year before the entry into force of the Vl is going to be well-behaved in the knowledge that they are nevertheless eligible. I would like to change that, so that the people on the floor simply know that the rules that apply in the normal world also apply: good behavior is part of it and that is rewarded, which creates a good atmosphere in prisons and acts harder against bad behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u185	Mr Van Nispen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u186	Well, Mr. Chairman, I have two more questions. Once again, the staff deserves a great compliment. It is right that the Minister should say this. I also understand that this law can make working more enjoyable. I think the Minister is right to say that. On multiple-person cell use, the Minister said "we have talked about this very often," but I did mention two examples in my speech, the staff of which is precisely saying: we are laughed at by people who are sanctioned; we say "you cannot recreate," but then the entire department sits on his cell with the punished prisoner, because the cell is open because of the fact that he has a cellmate. Someone is not allowed to watch television, but of course he is happy to watch with his cell mate. Sometimes, therefore, it is precisely the multi-person use that affects staff very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u187	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u188	My question is to answer that question from the first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u189	I understand this point and if I were to work there myself, I would find it incredibly annoying. At the same time, it is also practical things where a sleeve can be adjusted: see if there is a cell left empty somewhere and place someone in it while he has that punishment. I would be happy to discuss how we can ensure that sanctions are actually punishments and that the new plans can land on the work floor, even where there are multi-person cells. That is our ultimate goal. In the examples you mention, I can imagine that you think "that's not the intention."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u190	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u191	That is right, Mr President, my final question, on Amendment No 2. 16 of Van der Staaij. That's what "judge chamber" got. I have a question on this because I will have to advise my group on this. Does the amendment mean that the customization will disappear in order to revoke conditional release? That might go pretty far. Any criminal offence may have to result in the withdrawal of conditional release, no matter how light or heavy, unless there are special cases. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u192	I don't think this is going to be completely seared. At least that is not how I read that amendment. If you ask me to look at that again and come back to it in second term, I will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u193	Fine. Then we have come to an end to the Minister's first term. In the second period, he will come back to the amendments to item Nos. 11, 16 and 18. I suggest that we start immediately with the second term on the side of the Chamber and then proceed quickly with the second term of the Minister and that we conclude this debate before dinner break. First of all, Mr Markuszower has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have talked about a bill today virtually all day, which reduces the penalty reductions that dangerous criminals always get. If this law is passed, it will remain only a paper reality. Criminals will still receive penalty discounts. In almost all cases, these discounts will remain as generous as they are now. That's why I'm filing the next motion today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good conduct in detention should not be rewarded with a penalty reduction;]] [[Whereas prison sentences imposed by the judge must be served in full, irrespective of whether there is good conduct during the detention period;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish conditional release as a whole and to allow detainees to serve their full sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u195	Unfortunately, what remains the same is the almost criminally low penalties. This morning I spoke in the first term about Gerson F. Minister Dekker's D.A. demanded against this very violent suspect only seven years, for a rape and a near-murder, while the D.A. could have demanded a minimum of twelve years. What did the judges impose today as punishment? Just two years. The prosecution could have demanded 12 years, it only demanded seven years, and this unsub was imposed only two years. And that's excluding Dekker's penalty discount, which he's still gonna get. It's a nauseatingly low sentence. Minister Dekker's discounts are very dangerous. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u196	Because I'm committed to putting things right again, I'm noticing the following. This person has not only been punished, but not a discount. He has also been imposed on youth-tbs, which thanks to the CDA and the VVD can go through in a regular tbs. So let's just say it the way it is. Someone's been punished, but because they think he's crazy, to put it mildly domestic, he's also been treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u197	I would like to ask Mrs Van Toorenburg what her assessment is of when this suspect can walk on leave. That's the one. It's not a suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u198	I wouldn't be surprised if this became someone who might be in prison for life. He's seriously insane. That makes a treatment necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u199	Then let's put our finger on this unsub's wrist together. The fact remains that he could have had 12 years, and perhaps even more, but that he will only have two years in prison and that he will be in a clinic within two years, where a lot of freedoms and leave will prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u200	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u201	No, we're not going through with this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u202	Mr. President, I'll do that. A point of order, then, because I really want us to be able to say what is right and what is not. He's not going to a clinic. He remains in a judicial youth establishment, because that system is different there. So it's just bullshit that's being talked out here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u203	We'll see how many years this unsub can walk free again in the Netherlands. That's gonna be real quick, especially in a couple of years, and he could've just been stuck for 12 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u204	I would ask Members to accept Mr Van Wijngaard's request to speak earlier on an urgent agenda issue. Is that okay with you? Then I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u205	Excuse me, Mr President, and thank you to the Members, but this has to do with a private situation. I have only one motion and would like to thank the Minister for his reply. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas maximum use should be made of the time spent in prison to minimise the risk of recurrence;]] [[Whereas, for example, working on rehab of an addiction, treating mental problems, better mastering the Dutch language, learning to deal with responsibility and actively working on the basic conditions for return, increase the likelihood that a prisoner returns to society without repeated return;]] [[Invites the Government, in consultation with Reclassification Netherlands, prison directors, prison staff, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other field parties, to identify which evidence-based programmes that help to reduce relapses should be offered in the short or medium term within all prison walls, the role of those parties within the prison walls and the structural costs involved in the implementation of those programmes, and to inform the Court of Justice in 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Wijngaarden, Van Nispen, Drost, Kuik, Grotehuizen, Van der Staaij, Van Toorenburg and Hiddema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u207	Mr Van den Berge has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u208	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in the first term, my group agrees with the intention in the law, namely to work on rehabilitation and reintegration from day one. That's a good starting point. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer to the concerns we expressed in the first term. These concerns have not yet been fully removed, but I think, in theory, that the new system is well constructed. But we are concerned about the practical feasibility. I have asked a number of questions about this in the first term and by way of interruption. Already there are capacity constraints in penitentiary institutions and essential tasks cannot always be carried out. And even now, the presence of parole organisations is too limited. I had initially prepared a motion on these probation organizations, but I am not going to table them because the Minister has made a commitment that he will see how these pilots work in the various penitentiary institutions and that he will look at how the successful ones can be scaled up on that basis. I thank the Minister for that commitment and do not make a motion. I must say that I have been disturbed at times at the tone of the debate. If we say here that a lack of social support for the way in which we punish in the Netherlands and for the conditional release is a problem and therefore we make a law and we debate it with each other, we must stick to the facts. Terms like "quantum discounts" and "automatics" just don't add up. At the request of the House of Representatives, the Erasmus University has done research on conditional release and clearly concludes that there is no automatism. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the amendment to item No. 10. I have just put another question to the Minister in a very short space of time. I believe that the Minister may not have read the amendment properly, because the amendment does not demand that the entire assessment of the limitation of conditional release is made by the judge, but that a full judicial test can be carried out in the event of an objection. My group believes that this is important and I therefore ask the Minister to come back in the second term. I'll leave it at that. I thank the Minister for his answers and commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u209	I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u210	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Does this law ultimately promote security? That is, of course, the important question we have to answer. And in the end, that's also an assessment. This law clearly has very good points; I have explained this extensively in my contribution in the first term. However, the law also has issues on which we are deeply concerned. I also think that this is in line with what Mr van den Berge has already said about the fact that it will depend very much on the practical implementation of things and how bodies will work together, but also, above all, whether the staff, the people of probation and the workers in the penitentiary facility have sufficient time and space and sufficient colleagues to do this important work properly. The workload is now very high. The Minister has also honestly said that money is now available for it, but that it is almost impossible to get rid of it, because people cannot be found there. That is a big problem when we see what we are all asking of these people with this law. Actually, the Minister is asking a lot of us. He is asking us to agree to this law while we have these problems. I think it is extremely important that we keep a firm finger on the wrist. That is why the next motion, precisely because of the interests of the staff and the involvement of the staff in everything we are doing here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that re-integration of (ex-) inmates may be well regulated on paper, but due, among other things, to staff shortages, poor working conditions and high absenteeism, there is still a lack of re-integration in practice;]] [[believes that plans on paper can only be successful if they can count on the support of the staff and therefore always seek support for the plans among the staff;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually on the results of the proposals on improvements in work on the reintegration of (ex-) inmates into prison and, shortly after returning to society and in the reports, to strongly involve the staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u211	Then I have also explicitly expressed my concerns about the group of people who can be released without supervision. I realize that this group is already there, but I do think that group is getting bigger as a result of this bill. A group of people who have not earned a conditional release in the words of the minister is not always subject to long-term supervision, and the behavioral and freedom-limiting measure, the CSM, has not always been imposed. So I think the problem is getting bigger. We must therefore look for measures to control these risks. People who are a danger should not come into the streets unguided and uncontrolled. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are different penalties, measures, arrangements for monitoring and other judicial titles, but that this whole set of instruments does not ensure that people are prepared for their return to society and supervised if they are estimated to be a risk to society;]] [[Whereas there may be unsupervised detainees both now and in the future;]] [[Considers that, in order to prevent recurrence, prisoners should return to society with decent reintegration, accompanied and controlled;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways in which it can be ensured that prisoners who are estimated to be at risk to society can be monitored and inform the Chamber before the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u212	Finally, a motion on labour, which Mrs Van Toorenburg and I consider to be an important point. We would like to ask for an address to the House on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current Article 47 of the Penitentiary Principles Act states that the prisoner has the right to take part in the work available in the establishment, but that the proposal of the law wishes to amend this to "the inmate may be given the opportunity to participate in the work available in the establishment";]] [[Whereas work is one of the most important components of a detainee's day programme and that work is a meaningful daily use for prisoners, learning employee skills, getting a day-to-day rhythm and giving structure to their lives;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all prisoners are offered employment and, in principle, work is an essential part of the daily programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u214	Thank you. Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u215	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for the positive response to the amendments I have tabled in respect of item No. 14, together with Mr Van Nispen, and on documents Nos. 16 and 17. As regards Amendment No 1, I would like to make a few comments on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15 on the coincidence, I am convinced by the Minister's argument about this accumulation, namely that it may sometimes be appropriate to apply the conditional release. We have had discussions about this before in the Chamber and there have often been references to other laws, but I find the argument convincing now in all its compactness. That is why I am withdrawing the amendment. 15 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u216	The Van der Staaij amendment (Doc. 15) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u217	In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 14 was asked whether you could not formulate that differently, although the Minister could also live with the wording we have chosen in that amendment. I would like to work on this and consider a change, but I still have to discuss it with Mr Van Nispen as co-sponsor. It is perhaps good to hear the Minister's reaction, otherwise other Members of Parliament will ask what the Minister thinks about it. The amendment I am considering is to include: "The judgment shall state which part of the custodial sentence imposed is in any case enforced, taking into account the possibility of participating in a penitentiary programme referred to in Article 4 of the Penitentiary Principles Act or the conditional release referred to in paragraph 1.' I do not know if the Minister is in a position to respond to this, but then we can take that into account when amending this amendment or not. In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 16 on the withdrawal, Mr Van Nispen asked himself aloud and asked the Minister, but I also felt challenged as a petitioner, whether it does not mean that for every erase wash a withdrawal should be made with this wording. My answer is no. That is what I asked myself when I tabled this amendment. The law will continue to provide an opportunity to amend the terms or to issue a warning in cases where this is the case. This is covered by Article 15 (4) and I am not changing it with this amendment. Well, then we'll just have to talk about the calculus suspect. The Minister would come back to that in the second term. I realize that this is a difficult point, but I would be sorry if we moved this and if we could not fix and take this loophole, as the probation would see it, with this bill. I would like to stress that, in my view, judicial freedom is not at stake here and is not affected. There's every freedom for the judge to judge what he wants. The only thing Mrs Kikken and I propose with this amendment is to lay down a legal basis, so that even if the conditional release is not finally invoked, it is still possible to impose the conditions necessary for risk reduction. Finally, thank you for the commitment to include the possible further simplification of the systems of conditional punishment and conditional release in the context of the evaluation, as well as the other escape problems that I identified in my first term in the legislative review of criminal proceedings. This concerns, in particular, the question of whether the right conditions could be avoided by appealing or in cassation. The Minister said that his assessment is that this is precisely the law that reduces this problem. That is good to hear, but if I understand correctly, he would pay explicit attention to this point in the context of the legislative review of criminal proceedings. I see him nodding. Thank you for this commitment. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u218	Mr Van Nispen wishes to place another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u219	I'm going to do something very exciting right now, because I'm going to discuss a legal point with Mr Van der Staaij. But I'm gonna try anyway. It is about the amendment to item No. 16. Mr Van der Staaij says that paragraph 4 remains unchanged and the public prosecutor can therefore waive the withdrawal if, in his opinion, it is sufficient to change the conditions or give a warning. But of course this relates to the current paragraph 1, which includes a provision that can be revoked. If Mr Van der Staaij changes paragraph 1 and says that it is simply revoked when there are offences, it is difficult to say that it is also sufficient to change the conditions or to give a warning. So I do not understand how the new paragraph 1 can be reconciled with the current paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u220	That is correct, that is why the drafting of paragraph 4 has also been modified. This is evident from a later part of the amendment. I don't have the amendment on hand. Mr Van Nispen had also asked the Minister this question. It is fine if he also responds to that in his reply. In my view, it is final and, with the other wording in paragraph 1, there has been another editorial amendment to the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u221	Yeah, I can see that, too. But then we should consider minor offences, or perhaps even offences, I don't know, as "special cases." I think that's a very common category.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u222	No, the point is that in cases where there might be reason to say that the conditions are not met, withdrawal is the starting point, but that there may always be special reasons for changing the conditions on warning. That's the thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u223	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. We'll continue with the next speaker. That is Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I am not going to repeat how important I think this law is, because it is going to be different both in prison and on the way out. Otherwise, because it is too much about conditional release and how it is going in prison, I would like to stress one very important point here today. We are now also ensuring that conditions are actually met. That is not the case at the moment. This is really changing a lot. Mr Hiddema mentioned an example. He did that for a reason, because that is the most appealing example. We've had situations where a convict didn't want to report to the parole board at all. He just didn't do that anymore. Next, the judge said that it doesn't really matter, because recidivism isn't exactly expected. That was never the intention of the legislator. If someone does not comply with the conditions, it must be possible to enforce them. That is why it is so good that this element is included in this law today. There are many more reasons for dealing with people when they do not comply with the conditions, including the risks and interests of the victims. I would like to mention that again today. With regard to Mr Van Nispen's motion on labour, emptiness is the devil's ear pillow. We just don't want inmates thinking: whatever, I'm gonna lie in my bed; I'm gonna pay from outside and watch television all day long, because what do I care? No one in prison wants that lameness. That is why I think it is important that it be offered. Mr. Chairman. I can really say from my own experience: people who have been punished very briefly can also benefit from going to work, if only to have a work experience for the first time and to have day/night rhythm. So try to look positively at that in case of short-term punishment. Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. I'm filing them because I think it's important that we always look at the victims and see if we can get another tooth. You know me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to set up an advisory college to advise the Public Prosecutor on conditional release in complex and difficult cases;]] [[noting that this advisory body will be composed of members of the Public Prosecutor's Office and independent experts;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a representation of victim organisations could also be part of the advisory body,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u225	I don't just value expertise. Of course I like expertise, but I also like the whole feeling about where there are victims' interests there is the way people look at it. Perhaps it is good to point out that I have felt a difference of opinion with the Minister and therefore the need to table a motion. I may be able to hold on to the other motion, because the Minister pointed this out. An earlier motion to this effect I have allowed to lapse. That was because I thought: it will, but it didn't come quite. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is highly undesirable for victims to be confronted in their own home environment with perpetrators returning to their old environment after their release;]] [[noting that the Punishment and Protection Bill may impose an obligation to move as a condition for conditional release, but that a residence ban is still not possible as an independent measure;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how an independent residence ban that can be imposed permanently or for a longer period on perpetrators of serious violence and sexual crimes can be incorporated into the law, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u226	Finally, may I make a very constructive comment? If Mr Van der Staaij amends his amendment, let him amend the signature, because I am happy to be underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u227	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I call the following speaker, Mr Grothuizen, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the many questions asked. I thought it was an interesting debate with many different points of view, but actually with a lot of agreement between the different groups. We are also well informed by the VVD about the recent showbizz and royalty news and that is always nice. Mr. Chairman. I share Mr Van Nispen's view that the crux is in the execution. As a politician, we need to set good frameworks. We do this partly with legislation and also by providing the right and sufficient resources in the form of sufficient money and other conditions. Only then will this really fly. So we will have to see how this is going to develop in practice. I have another question for the Minister and a motion for a resolution. The Minister spoke warmly about the importance of parole and the intention to involve it as much as possible, but he did not answer the question of whether he was aiming at the physical presence of parole in every facility. I can see him nodding, so it is moving in the right direction, but I would also like to get the oral confirmation that this is indeed the intention. Then to the motion. I already spoke in the first period of time about the extra space that I believe is needed with regard to long-term reintegration leave, precisely in order to solve this problem of calculating behaviour and sufficient space for people with long sentences. The Minister is lucky to see that space, too. I would therefore like to put it to the vote with a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas being able to practice building freedoms is an important condition for improving reintegration;]] [[noting that the current proposal allows long-term reintegration leave in the event of imprisonment of six years or more, not earlier than 12 to 36 months prior to the fictitious vi-date;]] [[Whereas it is important to start re-socialisation in detention, especially in the case of long-term punishment, as a result of the maximation of the two-year conditional release;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt regulations to allow long-term reintegration leave in the case of prison sentences of six years or more in the period from 12 to 48 months prior to the fictitious vi-date,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u230	Thank you, too. Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u231	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the first-term answers. I'm inclined to support the bill. We've been talking about retaliation and what effectiveness means. That will also have to be demonstrated in practice. I hope that the amendment I tabled together with Mr van der Staaij will be accepted. That helps, of course. We'll take care of it in the back. But I'd also like to arrange something in the front. I have tabled a motion, along with Mr Grothuizen, for the time of detention, but I would also like to make some arrangements on the front. That is why I am tabling the next motion, together with Mr Grothuizen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Long-Term Supervision Act introduced a new behavioral and freedom-limiting measure (CSM);]] [[Whereas it is important for the CSM to be applied in cases where there is a conviction for a serious violence or sexual crime, so that a framework is still available after the detention to allow them to be monitored and subject to conditions;]] [[having regard to the fact that, in the event of prosecution of these offences, it is necessary for the public prosecutor to explicitly consider the application of a CSM and that the probation proceedings involve this measure in its advice;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the organisations involved in the CSM in the criminal justice chain in order to promote the application of the CSM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u232	In doing so, I think I am taking a constructive part in the drafting of this bill and in the question of what you are doing in front of you when a punishment is imposed and whether you are taking into account the fact that there is also a time for long-term punishment when they will have to take steps towards freedom. We're doing something to maximize that period that you need to work on reintegration. Because we're taking it to 48 months. I also want to keep the possibility, if we missed something somewhere in the trajectory, that there is another lock. That is the point of the amendment that I have with Mr Van der Staaij. Thank you very much. I wish you well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u233	Thank you. Finally, Mr Drost has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the last word in this term. Thank you to the Minister for answering all our questions. The Christian Union Group will support this bill. It is implementation of the coalition agreement and we have received two important commitments in this debate. The first was that the Minister would immediately anticipate and report on it in the event of unwanted calculation behaviour by detainees to avoid their vi. We shall not table the motion for a resolution on this matter. The second commitment is that the forthcoming evaluation will look specifically at the implications for the penalties applied by judges. Given the complexity of the law and a number of concerns that we have discussed with each other, we do consider it important for the Minister to identify how this law will be evaluated and on the basis of which frameworks and indicators will be used. That's why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that punishment and protection leads to a major change in the regime of conditional release and the phase of detention as a whole;]] [[Whereas several organisations are concerned, inter alia, about the impact of limiting the maximum duration of conditional release (vi) on the reintegration of detainees, the risk of recurrence and participation in a VI pathway;]] [[Whereas certain effects of the law, e.g. for people with a slightly intellectual disability, may become apparent in the short term, but the consequences for re-socialisation and the prevention of recurrence will only become apparent in the future;]] [[noting that no evaluation provision is included in the legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a framework through which the Penalty and Protection Act, possibly in stages, will be reviewed with specific proposals for KPIs, and to inform the Court of Justice of this by autumn at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Drost, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van den Berge, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u235	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I drew attention to the importance of voluntary organisations in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. We would like to encourage the Minister to do so, and we have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law is working towards a targeted detention and reintegration plan (D&R plan) for each inmate;]] [[Considering that the coalition agreement states that resocialisation and parole will be more firmly positioned in the implementation of sanctions and measures and that more attention and space will also be given to volunteering;]] [[Whereas voluntary organisations can have a unique role in the reintegration of detainees, for example by supporting contact with the family;]] [[Whereas support for volunteers for detainees can be meaningful even after their detention period and that volunteers can help build a bridge between former detainees and society, as the Yellow Ribbon Project in Singapore, for example, shows;]] [[calls on the Government to further develop ways of increasing the involvement of voluntary organisations in the implementation of the D&R Plan and how to strengthen the effectiveness of voluntary organisations in providing guidance after the end of the detention period and making available funds or proposing to the Chamber for that purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Drost and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35122-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u237	Thank you, too. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes and then the Minister will have the floor for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u238	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law on Penalty and Protecting. We need the second term from the cabinet. I call the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u239	Mr. Chairman. A question and a number of outstanding points on amendments and then a controversy of motions. I shall begin with Mr Grothuizen's question. I aim for the presence of the probation in all p.i.What do you say? The answer to that is a definite yes. Then there are a number of amendments. Mr Van den Berge spoke about his amendment to item No. 10, that's about judicial review. I understand, of course, that the decision is left to the State's Attorney's Office. Only, if you object, a whole new test will be done, and I really don't think that's necessary. That could be a procedural test. If, in all fairness, the Public Prosecutor could reach this judgment, that would in my view be sufficient to ensure legal protection. My assessment of this remains therefore: dissuade. Then there is the amended amendment to item No. 14 on the inclusion of the passage in the sentence. We've been messing with each other a little bit: what should that be like? What Mr Van der Staaij says about this sounds good. Perhaps for the sake of care: if he amends it, I am prepared to let you know my final verdict before the votes. But it's heading in the right direction. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11. I myself caused some confusion in the first term. My question to Mr Van Nispen would actually be: has he seen that by letter of amendment we have already included parole in a list of organisations included in the D&R plan? Mr Van Nispen's answer is yes. Then my question would be: what exactly is the added value of double-recording? That addition escapes me. So I don't object in principle to you taking that, but I think it's a little crazy for the consistency of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u240	It is indeed a technical point, but it is important, because it is indeed a law. Article 18a (3) now states: "The Director shall take any advice from the judge or the Public Prosecutor (...)." Paragraph 4 states: "The Director may, for the purposes of determining whether the adaptation of the detention and reintegration plan: a. with the probation (...)." We are concerned that, if there is advice from the probation board, this opinion should be included. So not like this: yes, you can consult with that too. No, if there's any advice, it should be in that same list as far as we're concerned. If it is better to make a separate member of this group, fine, but the consultation with the probation leave an option... If there is an opinion, that is what it is all about: there must be an opinion first, then we do not think that this should be an option. We would like to write that down in the law something more explicit or more binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u241	Mr President, I do not know if this is customary in your Chamber, but this line is entirely shared by Mr Van Nispen and I. I also know Mr Van Nispen as someone who is willing to take a look at it in order to land it properly on paper. This may lead to a slightly modified amendment. Then I will follow the same route as Mr Van der Staaij's amendment: I will give my final judgment to the Chamber one more time, and then I may go from 'dissuade' to 'judge Chamber'. 'Cause I think we're really just on the same page here. A clarification of the amendment to item No. 16 I cannot actually give as well as Mr Van der Staaij did. I take this amendment in such a way that it is intended to do what we already want to do. It's just getting a little tighter in here. So there remains a possibility of customization, to deviate and, for example, to provide a warning. I would like to add a few words to the amendment which is a little more complicated, and that is the amendment in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 18. This is an incredibly constructive debate. So I would also like to take a constructive look with you. I also understand exactly where you're from. You're asking the judge to take this with you automatically. There are actually two objections to this. One is quite fundamental, perhaps even constitutional. Do you have to tell a judge to take this? Because that seems to be what this amendment is doing. But in theory it may also be that the risk of recidivism with a sex offender is very low. Then you'll prescribe something. That's one. The other point is that the amendment excludes the application of the CSM if vi has been granted, while it may indeed be necessary after the granting of a conditional release to implement it if the CSM has been imposed by judgment. These are two elements in the amendment which make me stand by my view that I should discourage it. I can promise you two other things. There's a motion that includes Mrs. Kuiken's signature underneath. It says: make sure that it becomes much more known to the parties involved, in particular the public prosecutor who has to bring it forward, so that it is done in the cases where it should be done. I can see that there is still an improvement to be made. That's what I'm gonna do anyway. I will come to the judgements later, but then you will see that I also give Chamber judgment there. Then the second thing I want to promise you. Next year, in 2020, the first interim report on how the Long-Term Monitoring Act will work out in practice. I would like to come back to that dilemma, which is a real dilemma. My great fear is that if you adopt this amendment now, you will push a very basic and fundamental point into that law, which puts us at risk for progress, because we will have to look at this in another Chamber. I understand the points, but I really must discourage the amendment. I'd think it was really unwise. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the motions. The motion in part No. 19, by Mr Markuszower, calls for the total abolition of conditional release. It will not surprise you that I am betraying this, especially since this is really only symbolic and ultimately makes the Netherlands more unsafe. The motion in part No. 20 by Van Wijngaarden and many others are about consultation with different parties about different programmes. I can leave that to your Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 21. I think it is very good to report on this and also to let you know how we involve the staff, so I can get out of my way with that. Judgment Room. The motion of Van Nispen and Van Wijngaarden in part No. 22 is about identifying the different ways in which monitoring is carried out. This also affects the discussion I just had with Mr Van der Staaij. I can leave the judgement to the Chamber on this too. The same applies to the motion in part No. 23, by Van Nispen and Van Toorenburg on labour. I fully share their point of view if I may explain the motion in such a way that it does not apply to short-term punishments or people who are in very special places, such as the terrorist department, because that is practically just difficult to implement. If that's the case, if it's some sort of "basic rule, unless," I'm good with it. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. The same applies to the motion in part No. 24, on the understanding that I think it should be an advisory body and not a college of different interest groups. If the motion is passed, I will discuss it with these organisations as well. Then there is the Van Toorenburg/Van Wijngaarden motion on part No. 25, on the independent residence ban. That actually goes beyond this bill. The motion asks me to consider whether this can be incorporated into another law or an independent law. I'll pass judgment on that to your Chamber. Then there is an important motion by Mr Grothuizen and Mrs Kuik, the motion in part No. 26. It touches on the discussion about whether you can offer a little more space prior to conditional release. That's now 12 to 36 months, ascending to maximum sentence. If your Chamber agrees to this, I'll be able to deal with this. So I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The same applies to the motion for a resolution by Mr Kijk/Van Wijngaarden in part No. 27, which overlaps with and is similar to an earlier motion adopted. This motion, too, is left to the discretion of the Chamber. Also the motion in part No. 28 of Mr Drost and his associates to establish a framework for the evaluation, I leave it to the Court to judge. The same applies to the motion in part No. 29 on the involvement of voluntary organisations. The last sentence calls for funds to be made available for this purpose. We have allocated funds for this purpose in the coalition agreement. I can use those resources to do this. If that is also the intention of Mr Drost, then I can do very well with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u242	It may also be a little broader, but I mean to put it in a way that, if the Minister's inventory shows that he has good ideas, but that they cost money, he reports to the Chamber on that. Then maybe we can have the conversation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u243	I want to do that anyway. There was an earlier motion, which was on another part that actually asked as well. Of course, you can always do that. But if you say "I think this is so important, you have to make extra money for it now," then that's a bit of an uncovered check. I do not think that is what Mr Drost wants. We have money for this. Of course, if we see that something is working very well and we would like to do more, we can also find you in the budget. Mr. Chairman. May I thank the Chamber for a good and informative debate on this bill? In my view, this will ensure that trust in our rule of law remains high when it comes to the way in which we implement the punishments in the Netherlands. It also fits in with the feeling that people should be there. In my view, it can also represent a huge step forward in reducing repeated crime among people who are now in prison and are about to have a second chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u244	Thank you, Minister. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-12.u245	We are going to vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions tabled next Tuesday, 25 June, although the Minister is going to give a further opinion on two amendments prior to the vote.
