ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Fritsma of the PVV. I'll start by reading his suicide note first. Dear President, dear Khadija, After about thirteen years of parliamentary membership, it ends now. I'm gonna change my life, my working life. I'm looking back at an incredibly exciting time! It was a roller coaster ride with lots of loops and corkscrews. Sometimes the screaming was fun, sometimes it was nauseating. But it was always moving. And it was always about something. I am therefore proud of my term as a Member of Parliament. But I'm even more proud of one thing, and that's that I'm a PVV man. Only for this party's mission have I gone into politics. And if you ask me, we have given the social and political debate a big move in the right direction. I've been running the Immigration & Asylum portfolio all this time. I don't think a normal person would always have had as much fun in that as I do. To convey the PVV's views in this area, you have to be a bit of a non-conformist, who is willing to fight against the current at all times. And you have to be right about the whole conviction of you. Of course, there is no doubt about this in the case of the PVV-positions. But fair is fair, a bit of metal fatigue has also crept into it. And so it's okay that there is finally a new PVV-face on this wallet! A lot of things I'm gonna miss, some a little less. For example, the work phone, which incessantly spits out news and e-mails, is tossed into the North Sea with a big bow. At least if the Automation Service doesn't want him back. I should like to express my thanks to all my PVV colleagues I have shared this special time with. In particular to my friend Geert Wilders, who is at the basis of the much needed political change the PVV is working on. The absurd facts that this hero needs constant personal security and also because of a PVV position has been brought to justice in a political trial, are among the most common lows of Dutch politics. I would also like to thank all PVV's who are not on the speakerphone or behind the interrupt microphone. Because it is also all employees who keep things going and who often make as big sacrifices as group members. The Second Chamber staff also deserves all praise; from cleaning to registry and from messengers to catering staff. I think it is clear from my appearance that this last category in particular is doing an excellent job! Other than that, I don't want too much trouble around my departure. I'm gonna drive from the Chamber to Scheveningen for the last time, and I'm just gonna do something else. I wish everyone the best here. Sietse Fritsma
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-5.u2	Dear Mr Fritsma, dear Sietse, A courteous howdegen. That's what you were called in 2013 in Vrij Nederland. It's an appropriate description. In the Chamber we got to know you as someone who doesn't shy away from confrontation, who keeps getting over and over again against immigration and asylum. You do that in plain, plain language. Asylum seekers are called happiness seekers. Beautiful neighborhoods are called rotten neighborhoods. Politicians who think differently should live in those neighbourhoods themselves. You used big words, unpolished, and sometimes a little raw. But at the end of the debates, you stood and talked with the asylum seekers who were present or with the rulers who had attacked you so hard in the debate. You were always very friendly to your fellow roommates. Or, as it literally said in Vrij Nederland: "From the mouth of Sietse Fritsma, harsh judgments rarely sound mean. He's just a nice guy who knows what he's talking about." You entered the Chamber in 2006, now thirteen years ago, as one of the nine PVV's of the first hour. Geert Wilders mainly wanted people from the practice on the list. A former police officer, a judge, a former journalist. And the son of an eel fisherman from Franeker, with a sober Frisian stroke. It's never been your boy's dream to go into politics, even though you thought it was really interesting when you were a kid. You tried to follow and understand everything, and if you didn't get it, you just asked your father. The fact that you finally ran for Lower House is a direct consequence of your work at the Immigration and Naturalization Service. You dealt with immigration and asylum, and that's always been the thread for you. Here in the Lower House you never had another portfolio. Many of the 322 motions you (co-) submitted, of which 250 with your name as the first petitioner, were "repeat motions." Each time in a slightly different word, but almost always they were about the same thing: stopping asylum or closing borders. Frapper toujours, is your adage. Not only the content, but also the tone made you sometimes stand alone in debates. You didn't care much. When arranging work, you did not always get support, but you kept talking, standing behind the cathedral, with your arms crossed or sometimes with a pen in your hand. We can draw you out in a minute. You're known as a serious MP with a catchy smile and an infectious enthusiasm, and as someone with a great knowledge of facts. You said yourself: "I really do know the files, but I always try to see if it has anything to do with the real world." In recent years, your life has been largely made up of the PVV. You have a big heart for your party. That's what your letter says. In 2010 and 2011 you gave guidance to the first PVV group in the city council of The Hague. You did the selection yourself and organized Saturday training classes. In 2015, you became Vice-President of the PVV Group. Sometimes, just sometimes, you had a little space for relaxation and replaced that pen in your hand for a beer. Bitterballs and watch football, ADO Den Haag and SC Heerenveen. Dear Sietse, It is no secret that I, as President, am not happy with the great process in the Chamber. If you get the trust of your voter, you have the responsibility to make that happen. But everyone makes their own assessment on the basis of their own personal circumstances. You think it's time for an active life outside the Chamber. Your colleague Harm Bertema said this summer in a nice interview in Trouw that it is cold for PVV'ers outside their own group. I hope you and your new venture will be received with warmth. You want to go without too much fuss. I can tell you that didn't quite work out. For His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you Knight of the Order of Orange Nassau. I'd like to ask you to step forward so that I can pin down the decorations that come with this appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'm suspending the meeting for saying goodbye.
