ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Justice and Security (35300-VI). The answers to the questions put by Members of Parliament yesterday in their first term are discussed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I actually wanted to start with the answers from the Minister of Justice and Security, but I see Mrs Kuik and Mrs Helder. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u3	Yesterday, we discussed the problems in the police force with great emphasis: too little capacity, too little structural money. But two new facts have been added today that we have not been able to ask any questions about. Firstly, the emergency call from the police that the Minister must indicate before 1 January what tasks they will no longer be able to do because they are no longer able to handle the work. Secondly, the unit against organised crime is closed in Amsterdam, while a drug unit must be rigged at the same time. This is very worrying and unacceptable. That is why I would ask the Minister, through you, President, to take these questions with you immediately at the start of the debate and to provide an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr President, I fully agree with what Mrs Kuik is asking. My request to the Minister would also be to respond spontaneously, not in the block about the questions that we asked yesterday, but now, separately and as a first step, to the quote that we are talking about, that is to say, the police have fallen because of the crepe strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u5	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Yesterday, a lot of questions were asked about police capacity. Is he taking these questions with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u6	I will, as has been good practice, answer the questions that have been asked, and I will also take with me the letter that was sent yesterday, the presentation that was in Nieuwspoort today and the letter that came today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u7	Okay. Then I suggest... Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u8	I would urge you, Mr President, to start immediately. It's so urgent. The distress call is so loud. I would like to make that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u9	But I'm gonna say something about that. The Minister has heard these questions. He's gonna go into that. I'm just giving him the floor. You're busted. If the answers are not given, you will have the opportunity to ask. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u10	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. I have taken advantage of it, and I think that many of my predecessors will have done the same in order to start with my appreciation and thanks to your Members of Parliament for the questions that have been asked and to say a little more about it. But I don't actually do that, because I want to start with Derk Wiersum. On September 18th, we had a new attack on our rule of law with the murder of Derk Wiersum. Now a lawyer was brutally murdered, who just performed his practice with integrity. Derk Wiersum embodied the highest values of our society. A hard-working idealist who did his difficult work every day in complete integrity and with great personal courage. September 18th, they shot him, almost in front of his house. A nice man on his way to work. A father, a husband, a son and also a banner of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, I started my reply by commenting on the state of our rule of law. After all, that is the core point, the foundation of our prosperity, our well-being and everything that is of value in our lives. The Netherlands is a well-functioning, stable rule of law, we concluded last year. But my fellow Members and I also identified significant and increasing threats to that rule of law. Those threats have become more manifest since then. One of the greatest threats to our rule of law is organised undermining crime. The banners of the rule of law feel the pressure. In my discussions with prosecutors, lawyers and judges, as well as mayors, aldermen and journalists, the people who really guarantee our rule of law, I hear concerns about the security of society and about the security of society, and I even more appeal to them for their own personality. For many people, the situation is downright nasty: for people in and out of a house in their streets who are constantly unsatisfied, but also for people who fear that there are dangerous drug laboratories in an ordinary residential area and also for the many who are committed to the public task. Some of us are making huge sacrifices for that. There are prosecutors in our country who see their children sporadically, because otherwise they endanger themselves or those children. There are children of mayors who are not allowed to know where their father or mother temporarily lives, because they put that parent and herself in danger. Journalists also feel threats, like the entrepreneurs approached by criminals to use their business premises or means of transport. Threat is no longer just a crime. It's become an inconspicuous business model. Threat is now a threat to society as a whole. It is actually the first pillar on which the undermining crime rests. The business model of threats contributes to the realisation of billions of profits by serious criminal organisations, profits that disappear in all kinds of ways and are laundered in an unclear way. That is the second pillar of this undermining. These billions of gains can all the better be achieved by the increasing entanglement of the underworld and the upper world. This entanglement of the underworld and the upper world is seen on the one hand by intimidating ordinary citizens. Ordinary farmers are forced to make their barn available. Citizens too simply look away when criminals do trafficking or illegal prostitution somewhere in their neighborhood. But the other side of this entanglement is that entrepreneurs just turn a blind eye when criminals knock at the door, whether they're landlords of business premises, car vendors or brokers. That entanglement is the third pillar of undermining crime. Defuseing that evil mixture is at least one of the most important, most important tasks for me. The Netherlands must no longer be an attractive country for organised crime. Can we handle it? First of all, yes. I discussed it extensively with your Chamber on 11 September. At that time, I also noted in my second term that everyone present here today, with of course differences of opinion on certain nuances, insists that we can handle this, that we are a democratic rule of law and that we address it. But there's a second yes. Indeed, you cannot put the billions of revenue of criminals, as some do, against the 210 million special commitment to undermining. Then it is said: you do but this amount, but you must see what is on the other side. We already have a powerful government with a strong infrastructure. That government's about to make a bet with extra money. But reinforcements are still needed. That is why you will speak to me for the first time. It must be structural in the end. It's not a year's fight or anything. It's gonna take years to get this right. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u12	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u13	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mrs. Kicken, but I'd like to see if the Minister's question on this subject... The Minister has started a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u14	Yes, I am at the end of this subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u15	Then I suggest you finish this first. Then you will have the floor, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u16	I will come back to the money, of course, when people are wondering what that is about, because that is one of the most important issues. Mr. Chairman. The final point I wanted to make is that it must be about rolling up, taking it away and preventing it. I will come back to the concrete measures and to the precise monetary aspects, also in response to the questions that have been asked. Mr. Chairman. Protecting our rule of law involves more than just tackling undermining crime. The protection of the rule of law concerns a range of responsibilities. We have national security. That's a very broad understanding. This concerns, on the one hand, the protection of citizens against state threats, polarisation and terrorism, but also against military and digital threats or threats to our vital infrastructure. Digital threat by state actors is one of the biggest threats. I will go into this in more detail later on in cybersecurity. Furthermore, there is an ongoing duty to protect citizens from damage to their personal security or integrity. For example, think of everything in the field of vice. It may seem like everyday crime, but no, it's crime that intervenes deeply with individuals. This may range from the spread of child pornography to sextortion, but you can also talk about high-impact crimes, such as brutal street robbery, in the context of deep crime. That whole range of responsibilities stems from the task I have to protect the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. All these things, whether they are about combating the spread of child pornography or punishing the hacking of bank accounts, call for an approach to protect society's security every day. That requires constant attention and action. This also requires the connection between security and justice... I can still go on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u17	Perhaps it would be useful for the Members of Parliament if you could give us an indication of how you are going to pursue your speech and what subjects are being discussed. Then the MPs can judge a little when they do and do not interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr President, I am going to talk about undermining, police capacity and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u19	Yeah, national security, I saw, like crisis management, morals and culture at Justice and Security. At least those are the subjects I've been getting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u20	That's right. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mrs. Helder, what did you want to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u22	The Minister is going to make an introduction. So I'm thinking, we're gonna wait it out. We have ten questions that we must divide up. On many issues, I do not rule out the fact that fellow Members feel it is very important that we should be able to follow each other up with questions, where the opposition can also help each other a little bit to make things a bit difficult for the minister, which is also fun for the public. Then it would be useful if the minister in his introduction did not go from undermining to vice, cybersecurity and so on. Then we don't know when to ask these questions, and I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u23	I shall go into the three parts of undermining in detail later, because a number of questions were asked yesterday. You will not be surprised that I go into detail about the capacity of the police. As I've already announced, I'm going into national security and cybersecurity quite extensively. I'm going to talk about the vice later, where there's an extra assignment. I also come to talk about the culture in my department. Well, I guess I'm kind of on the main topics. Then you've seen that I've been bullied enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u24	Terrorism is what I hear here calling out. I believe that this will also be the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u25	I would like to say that we also have to be tough on bullying. But seriously, the Minister says that structural money must be provided. Is he going to explain that in that little block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u26	Yeah, that's what he said. He said: I will come back to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u27	But not just about the capacity of the police but undermining as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u28	I have indicated that I will also deal with the question of money, structural and occasional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u29	It's been like this all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u30	I've said it twice, but I'm willing to say it three times. Mr. Chairman. It concerns professionals who ultimately implement the rule of law in concrete visible actions to protect people. These are the people I mentioned at the beginning of my introduction, the staff of the emergency services, such as fire brigades, ambulances, various rescue brigades and the police, but they are also the 150 members of your room and I will finally return to Derk Wiersum. The situation may be serious, but I'm not desperate. There's no sign of doubt. The rule of law is going to come out well, but it will not happen automatically because our rule of law is a heavily fought property. 75 years ago we fought for this and we will have to continue to work on that rule of law every day. It's not self-evident. I'm coming to the end of my introduction. Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday, I was in your room talking about bullying. I explained that this is an evil that children can do a lot of harm. As I said at the time, children must first and foremost try to speak to each other, but that will not always help. Then it is the adults, so we, who must ensure that children are not excluded. Sometimes bullying goes on among adults. Then we call it discrimination, racism. It's not part of our society. In addition, we must first and foremost appeal to each other. The young referee gave an excellent example of this this weekend as far as I am concerned. I now turn to the answers to some of the issues raised. Then I'll start undermining. Undermining crime consists of three elements. Let me start by rolling it up. Then I come to an important point. A number of Members of Parliament have asked about the sharing of information. I believe that I agree entirely with a number of Members that a good exchange of information is really a prerequisite for a successful detection of undermining crime. I believe that some of the spokesmen have asked me about this recently, whether it was Mrs Helder, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Yeşilgöz or Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge. By "other side" I mean geographically the other side of the Chamber. Everyone said this has to be a priority. At least I have good news there on two points. The first is that I can reveal to your Chamber that the Council of State's opinion on the Data Processing Bill by Partnerships, which is going to be a very important breakthrough in the exchange in the public but also the public-private domain, will come to an end these days. That will mean that I will actually submit the bill to your Chamber at the beginning of next year. Your Chamber said yesterday, through Mrs Yeşilgöz, that you would very much like an emergency law. That is the urgent handling of the bill. I support that wish. If you'll excuse me, Mr President, but let me say: let's go together as a cabinet and chamber. In addition, I would like to say the following. I have recently sent you a letter detailing that the current legislation also offers plenty of opportunities for sharing information. For example, there is already much possible in the context of the detection of criminal offences. The Police Data Act gives a lot of opportunities for exchange, but also sharing information between mayors is possible via the police. That can run through the triangles again. In that letter, I explained how that was done. When the mayors and I asked together whether there could be further possibilities for legislation in the field of information sharing, in addition to the law I was just talking about, the Council of State said that at the moment there is no reason to do so, because there are still legal possibilities. As a department, we worked with the mayors to really scrape everything out of the pan, if I may call it that. The municipalities provided case positions. We have really looked everywhere and said: through this way you do have additional legal possibilities to exchange the information you need there. I refer to my letter. A number of examples have been selected in the annex which have really good potential. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, of course, we also have the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, the RIES. I know your room has made work visits in the country. I did the same thing myself. There are really excellent, good opportunities to go even further. Then there is the so-called B.E. Regulation, Administrative Information Justitiabelen, which provides that a mayor can be informed about the location of ex-convicts in his or her municipality. I would like to mention that as one of the examples. As you know, we are expanding the Bibob Act with an amendment to the Judicial and Criminal Data Decree. I think that we should also act together in this regard in spreading even more in the country the possibilities I mentioned in that letter last week. Mr. Chairman. In this context, it is still important to report that a model protocol is being drawn up at the moment, under the direction of the hunt team, which makes it clear which information can already be shared. With this protocol we are also making more insightful where the possibilities are. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that we will only strengthen these activities with each other in the coming years in setting up that multidisciplinary intervention team. I wrote a contour letter to your Chamber about that. For the design of that team and the first to start work, the cabinet proposed occasional resources. Before I go into the other two points, I would like to say a few words about the issue of occasional or structural money. Otherwise, I'm gonna keep the tension going. I understand the urgent desire expressed by your Member, Mrs Kuik, to make the strengthening of the undermining approach structural. I believe that, in the debate on 11 September and in other debates, it has often been said that I also understand that we will eventually have to come up with a structural extension of the undermining fund. I'm going back to the start of the cabinet on October 26, 2017. The coalition agreement included a sum of 100 million occasionally for an undermining fund and 10 million in structural terms, in addition to the reserve, but I will come up with extra money for the police later on. But I'm going to answer to the capacity police. That money went to work. That money has now been used, as we know, and we will see the first evaluation results in 2020. We have said that we are learning to evaluate these projects, as it is called. So we are going to see whether those projects on which the money has been deployed are indeed successful in this form or whether adjustments should be made. That's what I'm here to talk to your room about. In the debate on 11 September, I stressed once again that I am going to make an effort in the cabinet to get more opportunities now, especially those structural possibilities. That has come into a painful acceleration; let us say it quite frankly. It is actually an acceleration which I say, if you look at me, I would rather not have. But that acceleration was on September 18th. I want to answer and I will stop immediately, Mr President, if there are any questions. You know, I have discussed with you that after 18 September, the NCTV, the D.A., the police and I had extensive consultations with each other immediately. This has led to the large-scale team monitoring and securing, because it was quite clear that there is a need to step up and coordinate nationally on these very serious threats. This also automatically resulted in the fact that I will come back to the capacity police later that it was going to put an extra pressure, because some of the people from the basic teams had to come from the other parts of the country. There was no other way. I would also like to stress that last week I also said in general consultation undermining that it really was people who had the skill and specialization to do so. I am the first to acknowledge that this put an extra pressure on us at the time. At my urgent request, the cabinet then presented my outline note. As a result, at least it has been said: you will receive 110 million for the period up to the end of 2020, so that you can at least immediately make a number of arrangements for monitoring and security, but also for the multidisciplinary intervention team, to get started. And now it comes, because that is, of course, what Mrs Kuiken is waiting for. The problem is the structuralization of that money, already. Let me be honest: we would actually be talking about more money, because this is money to get it all started. You know that costs less, because you won't have the people and such tomorrow. We discussed this briefly earlier in general consultation last week. The budgetary rules that have been in place since 1994 and which have also been sent to your Chamber by this cabinet, these are consistent our budgetary rules, which mean that there is one major decision-making moment for structural adjustments, and that is in spring. Mr. Chairman. I sympathize... No, let me rephrase. In the situation in which we are sitting, I would prefer to have a discussion within the cabinet, with the Minister of Finance and then with your Chamber on structural matters, but that is not possible in budgetary terms. As much as we may say here that there is urgency, it is very complicated that it will make all kinds of other things in the areas of regulation, legal certainty and so on more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u31	The Minister can make things very complicated, and he does so by bringing in everything, the budgetary rules and legal certainty. But of course it's a political choice whether you spend money on something or whether you do it structuralally. The problems with organised crime are not today's or yesterday's and have not only been there since 18 September. We have all seen that we have a huge political legacy from the VVD and that we have heavy understaffing in the police: crepe strength. I spoke to a lot of cops this morning. I thought I knew all about it, but you're still scared to death of the stories. Those people are literally working their asses off. They get sick, they get psychologically sick from the overload. Four CPRs in one shift and go explain it to the people, all those family members. We have very serious problems with organized crime. And this minister actually says: I can't do it in the cabinet to release more than one-off money. We said it well in advance: make those resources structural, because you haven't just solved it; this is going to be a long-term issue. This minister has to be honest today, I hope. I hope he can say now: no, I have not yet done so, but I am going to try again with the spring note in the interests of the safety of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u32	Mr President, two things. Let me give up the plot of my story here again. I have always said to your Chamber, even before 18 September, that I am going to make great efforts in spring to get these additional resources structuralally. I really want to stress this first here, because you can expect me to do the best I can as a minister, as it is called in today's language. I would like to say something else to Mr Van Nispen. I promise to discuss the structural issue of the police, but I would just like to say that the problem with the police is not the same as with the undermining money that we have put structural extra money on the police. There is even more structural extra money through the budget. For the people who are watching, too, I am going to explain this in a more detailed and simple way. That is what the point is about, and I shall come back to it in detail later on, namely that I have the money, but that it is an incredible task to get people as quickly as possible and as qualitatively as possible. I've communicated that to your Chamber a number of times before. That is another problem. Back to the undermining crime. I have already said that you can certainly expect me to do so this spring. But I'm a little shorthanded, if you don't mind me saying so, Mr. President. I have explained very clearly that this is how the budgetary system works. That is why I have said: at least now give me substantial incidental resources. Let me remind you of the time when this cabinet arrived in 2017. Mr Van Nispen was there too. You know, then we got 291 million structuralally for the police, so a year. That would eventually lead to 1,111 fte. Then I was warned, among others by Mr Van Nispen. That was criticism I appreciated, at least after the debate. I thought that's a good point. I was warned by saying that if you only get that money structurally hammered off from spring 2018, you will lose six months in terms of the expansion of the Police Academy and more of those things. Then I went to the cabinet and asked: can I be sure to make 50 million advance payments? That's how I see what I'm doing right now. And, of course, I still hope that the urgency we all feel in this approach of undermining will continue to be widespread in the spring. That's how you see my approach to this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u33	We don't have that time. We don't have that time! The Minister's talking about urgency. Yeah, there's that urgency. The fight against organised crime needs to be stepped up now. You can't hire extra agents from incidental funds; of course the minister knows that too. I am told that the Minister has fine words for this and I have not doubted the Minister's intentions either. I sincerely congratulate him, because the Minister is doing his best. But the police unions rightly said this morning: doing your best is not good enough at the moment, given the big problems we face. I know all the money the Minister is going to spend; I know he's going to invest in extra agents and add extra money. But what do we see? At the end of this cabinet period, less money is available and fewer agents are available. That's the reality of the day. And what doesn't help is that the Minister says: we'll wait a few months and then I'm going to try again to make the resources structural. You can't do this, Mr. President! This is not good for the safety of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u34	This is really different. I'm going to talk about the police again, but I'm going to say more about it later. That 291 million additional structural investment is really being worked on. I really look, with the unions, with the corps leadership and also with mayors: what should we bet the people on? But the problem there is really much more at the point that we are also dealing with a very large outflow of pension funds, i.e. of people who are retiring. I have been able to get extra money from the cabinet in order to fill the deficits that have been temporarily created for the time being. But at some point, the police and I, as well as the unions and everyone else, have to observe that the labour market pipeline is beginning to become empty, as well as the timeline you have. Mr Van Nispen knows that we are really thinking out of the box as well. We are looking at where we can shorten the training, so that people can get through the academy faster without compromising quality. We're working on all these things. But in the end, I can't magic people from anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u35	I would perhaps like to make a point of order, and I shall return to the beginning of this debate. I can now hear the Minister say two or three times: I shall return to this matter. Maybe it's good to start with that, because otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr President, I am fine with it. You don't have to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u37	When it's done, you can still get on the other subjects, but the police keep everyone busy. It is very unfortunate to have to say every time in the debate: I shall come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u38	I don't have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u39	Mrs. Kuik is standing by the interrupting microphone. You agree, Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u40	I agree with your proposal, Mr President, but if you like, I am going to ask you a question about structural funds for undermining, because that is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u41	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u42	The world now indeed looks different from that of the end of 2017, when the cabinet started. Terrible things have happened and even the Minister now recognises that structural money must be added. But he's hiding behind the wrong excuse that it's technically impossible right now. That is not the case, and I would like the Minister to acknowledge it. Maybe that's what it's supposed to be. Soit. And okay, maybe you should stay within certain frameworks. But it is not that it is technically impossible to make structural money available at the moment. It's not like it never happened in the past. So my question is, why doesn't he just do this? Because it's so necessary and everyone feels it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u43	I refer to my earlier explanation. There have been budgetary rules since 1994, a large part of which is popularly known as "the salmon norm'. Each subsequent cabinet states in advance in a letter to your Chamber that these budgetary rules will be enforced. I have just explained to you that we are also a rule of law in this area that you will have to see in proportion to each other. I am standing here for Justice and Security, but there are also other pressing issues in society. It is also part of our democracy that we do it carefully. I have explained that I cannot, therefore, discuss the money in a structural manner until that spring, and I have therefore asked very strongly and urgently whether I should be allowed the money for the next year and a half, so that at least I have that money. Then I can get to work. Then I can start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u44	Yes, but I conclude that that standard is a sensible agreement, but not a straitjacket. It's not legislation. It's not something you can't deviate from. The house is on fire. The fire department doesn't wait until they have opened the door with a key. Then you kick down the door and then you go in. That is the situation now. In short, it's not like you don't like it, but you choose politically not to. Once again, I would like to call you: kick down that door! Act now! Take action! I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u45	I said it's not a choice. If I had the choice, I have already indicated that I would have filled it in differently. These are indeed tough rules, which also apply to other policy areas. For this reason, I said to the cabinet: at least give me the funds that can be granted, on such a basis that they give a very firm commitment for the next 18 months. I have already indicated this in the debate on 11 September, but it is good to explain it clearly again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u46	The Minister has difficult choices to make and must, of course, consult with the Minister for Finance and his other colleagues in the Cabinet. I don't think the argument he's putting forward is correct. We have really also concluded during the General Financial Reviews that the Advisory Section of the Council of State, on the basis of research, has shown that this cabinet does not comply with its own budgetary commitments. So there has already been a deviation, for billions of euros. Then the Minister can't say here: I can't do that here, because it's our rules. If you broke them six months ago, you can. Of course, you can say there's no money or you can't get any money. But you can't say it's the rules, because you broke them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u47	I am here to speak with your Chamber about my budget. I have reason to believe that I have complied with these rules. I think that as Minister for Justice and Security, I am the one who should not set the wrong example in this respect. But there is also simply a consistent, legal certainty system and there are other very urgent problems in society that are equally valid. A human being can make an emergency a virtue. For this reason, I have urged the cabinet to at least get the money I need over the next 18 months in order to put in place a number of extra items with a firm and well-focused mind, let us also stress this: extra appropriations. So far there has been 100 + 110 = 210 million incidental undermining money. At the beginning of the reply to Mr Van Nispen, I indicated that I know perfectly well, and I also think that I should make a very detailed commitment to structural funds in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u48	However, on this point, because we also had a debate with the Minister last week on this. These budgetary agreements are political agreements. There's room for deviation from that. We have had a debate here on the education budget. Some structural funds have also been made available. Far too little, by the way, because that is why the teachers went on strike, but structural money has also been released. So the fact that it has not happened before undermining is a political choice. It's possible. As I said in my own speech, I appreciate the commitment of this minister, and perhaps it has not yet been achieved, but it is good to be honest about it. It is a political choice not to do it structurally now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u49	I think things are different in that respect, but I am not here today to explain the Education budget, so I am not going to go into that. I repeat: it is suggested here that budgetary rules, budgetary agreements between the Cabinet and your Chamber, are something I can say: 'Well, people, just knock it off!' Give me the structural money. That's not true. Those rules have a very clear framework. Your Chamber rightly calls on the Minister of Finance to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u50	All Members of Parliament give examples of a deviation from the budgetary rules. In fact, it happened recently in the education budget. Mr Azarkan has a point to make. In any case, admit that it is not the case that the budgetary rules are hindering additional money. You have to see that, don't you? We have all provided examples of this. He'd be very pleased with that. Then we can continue with the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u51	I am not going to pick up that decoration, I fear, because I have explained what the budgetary rules are. I have heard a single Member refer to other budgets. I find it very difficult to interfere, but my belief is that the cabinet does comply with the rules. And let us be clear, it is not so that we say to ourselves: that is how we agree on the rules. They'll go to your room. That is precisely for a careful democratic process. I understand that I don't get very much appreciation for that, but still, I did just do my best to make sure that I have enough money to do everything for the next year and a half, just like we did with the deployment of the Police Academy. Then, in spring, I must ensure that, as soon as I can, I get as much structural as possible. That's the right way to do it. Mr. Chairman. You asked me to consider the capacity of the police after all. It is not for nothing that I said in my introduction to undermining that after that nasty 18 September, additional calls were made on the base teams to make people available for the acute extra commitment to surveillance and security. In addition, we also spoke with the Marechaussee and the Defense Department to see how we can resolve this urgent issue as best we can. But before that, I have already spoken with the corps leadership, mayors, the unions and the works council about the care we see. Structurally, a lot of additional resources have been added for the police, also occasionally, to support the strength. I'm about to put them together. Then we see that we just need time to really realize that strength again. A few years ago, as a society, we achieved a reduction in police staff of 3,500 FTE. One of your members already cited it in his first term. It really takes time to get these back. I never wanted to sell dead sparrows. I've always indicated, no matter how miserable, that we should take that time. In the meantime, I have been talking to the unions and the works council about this for a long time to see how we are going to solve this as best we can for the officers themselves. In that context, I also support the idea that the unions have carried out a survey among their members to see where you should do something in prioritization for the time being. In the meantime, I have also made it very clear in cabinet submissions that, at this time, more tasks cannot be expected to be assigned to the police. On the contrary, we need to look at where we can relieve tasks. Mr President, if it is okay with you, I am going to put it under a line that has nothing to do with structural money. The cabinet immediately deployed 291 million extra structuralally. On top of that, this year the 15 million extra from GroenLinks for vice and the 10 million extra that is still being deployed in terms of guarding and securing. Then there is additional money for the use of police in trafficking in human beings. These are all topics that are currently the tasks of the police and where that extra money really has to provide support and relief. I think I forgot one or two things, but I want to stress that the extra money is not the problem. This cabinet considers investing in the police to be of great social importance. The point is, I can't make that more beautiful, and I've told your Chamber that it's gonna take a while before we train and deploy those extra people. Finally, I would like to say that we are also focusing on side-instromers of other expertise and on people who are retiring, but who may be willing to work a little longer and are well paid for it. We focus on all these things, but this is the situation. Once again, I am going to speak again with the various parties shortly to see how we can solve these things as well as possible, especially for the officers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u52	Are there any more questions about the police you need to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u53	This subject in particular came up yesterday, just before today, with great impetuousness, but I just wanted to leave it at this point. There's still a few things, but they're a little loose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u54	This is an ink black day for the police. We've fallen through the ice. We can't explain it to the public anymore. These are not my words, but these are the words of police officers and spokesmen of the police unions at the press conference this morning. They're asking us two things. One, they're asking for structural money. The Minister has just spoken about this, and I do not think that we are getting any further. But they also ask to make choices for the police to tell them what they need to do less or no more until those new people, those new police capabilities, are there. My question to the Minister is: what choices do you make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u55	Those choices are precisely what I am talking to the police leadership, the mayors and also the police unions themselves. That is why I have also said that I welcome the fact that this survey, for example, has been carried out. The Chief of Staff has set up a National Task Force Operational Strength and Capacity. On the one hand, it focuses very much on increasing the ability to increase strength, to deploy new people more quickly and to see if we can train more specifically and more quickly. What do we think that's okay with? In addition, we are also talking about how we can prevent the task package from becoming far too heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u56	I do not think it is about how we ensure that the task package does not become too heavy, because the task package is already far too heavy. On the basis of this survey, the unions made a number of concrete recommendations, such as temporarily not collecting fines below €250, reducing bureaucracy and reporting obligations for agents so that they can return to the neighbourhood, and using operational experts for police tasks. These are three concrete examples, but they have made many other recommendations. I hope the Minister will take a serious look at that. We really need to relieve the workload in the short term, because we're not just gonna open that can of cops. Last week we were discussing it with the Minister in general undermining, and at that time he did not seem to want to do so, but I really think it is necessary in the short term. Otherwise, they can't make it strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u57	Those talks have been going on for some time and we continue to have them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u58	Fourth question, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u59	Fourth question, because I think it is a very important point. We have asked this question many times. I wonder when we will hear more about this in concrete terms. Structural money is one thing. That is for the future; that is important and we wholeheartedly support it. But something must also be done now, today, as soon as possible. When can the Minister inform us about what will happen in the short term in the coming weeks, months, years, until these new police officers are there to reduce the workload? How's the Minister gonna do that? And when will we hear from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u60	A misunderstanding: that structural money is not for the future, it is for now. Let us be clear: this has been made available to the cabinet, and that also indicates how complicated the problem is. It is not about making the money available; it is about getting that strength in a good way. If Mr Van den Berge asks how I am going to fill that out and when, then I say: these talks are of course a priority, and we have been talking about this for quite some time. I am sure that together we will find solutions to this problem for the corps leadership, the unions and the department. I can't give you a timetable for that yet. I think that's a little premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u61	The police themselves say that they have completely fallen through the ice and that they can no longer guarantee safety. The Minister is right that this is actually the fault of the VVD's austerity policy in recent years. There is just one point the Minister has to make; that is what we have to establish here. But the Minister doesn't want to make those choices. The Minister doesn't want to make the choice what we do and not ask of our agents, who are actually just squeezed out. They're just being flawed right now. The Minister does not want to make those choices, but those choices are, of course, being made at the moment. In Rotterdam, the neighborhood agents have disappeared from the neighborhood because they are needed in other places. In Amsterdam, the team for organised crime has been abolished. How is that possible in this time of year? But these kinds of choices are all made, also because the Minister does not want to make those choices. Is the minister gonna be honest about the numbers? So don't count the aspirants, the people in training, in the police numbers. But is he also gonna be honest about what can and what can't be done? Is he going to do everything reasonably possible to solve these problems in the short term, including the task discussion? What are we gonna ask and what aren't we gonna ask of the cops? Be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u62	What the local police chiefs decide about the use of their police, of which it is clear that those are decisions that are really taken at that local level. That's how the system works. I fully respect that, too. I am convinced, given the quality of our police and our local police chiefs, that those choices are good. What these choices entail is then up to the local chefs. That's one. Two: my job is not to get involved in what the police will be like somewhere. That's completely contrary to our system. I don't have that part at all. I have to provide money and, in addition, I must, or I want to, at least facilitate discussions on what is generally the responsibility of the police in policy and regulation. Mr Van den Berge has rightly asked a few questions about this. But what choices are made concretely in a particular situation is the policy of the local police chief. This does not have to do with workload at all; this may also have to do with certain dossiers or problems that are local.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u63	This is so bad! In Amsterdam, the crime team is lifted and in the meantime a drug unit needs to be filled. But the Minister says very nicely: I'm not going over it, I'm very sorry. The house is on fire, the police are ringing the bell and what does the minister say? Sorry, I'm not in charge. Cops are falling out, sick leave is incredibly high, marriages are stranded because cops can't be home anymore. But the Minister says: I'm very sorry, I'm not going over it. That can't be the answer, can it? My specific question is therefore: how can he seriously engage in the discussion if the first written answer to the questions we asked yesterday is: 'There are no tasks for the police'. How can he explain this answer in the light of the emergency plan that is now under way and the answer he has just given, namely that he is talking to the unions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u64	Let me make it very clear that the police are the police and have very clear security duties. I wasn't going to change the Police Act. That is why I keep saying that I do not want to sell dead sparrows in this respect. It doesn't make anyone any better. On the other point, we must be aware that local choices are being made. I have heard from the newspaper that is really a local decision that was taken in Amsterdam to stop one team. To be honest, I do not have the impression that everything is stopped there in terms of countering undermining; let us be clear about that. Once again, our system is so that I have to provide enough money, for a good Police Academy and things like that more to facilitate things. I am, of course, also here for the legal task of the police. But for the choices that are made locally in a given situation, for the priorities that are being set, we have expert people on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u65	Now I'm really getting mad. When it comes to something... 30 people were fighting organized crime in Amsterdam. They are relieved of their duties, they are removed, because there are not enough people in emergency services, because they can no longer handle 112 notifications. Isn't that what this minister's got to do with it? He can't point to the system or to legislation, can he? He can't say, "Oh, boy, it's a pain in the ass," but it's not my problem, is it? That is precisely what we are debating today, namely how we ensure sufficient money, how we ensure sufficient capacity and how we ensure that the agents stay alive. Or should I leave because the Minister says it's all very annoying, but I'm not going over it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u66	I was gonna drop a repeat. This is exactly how the system works. I fully understand the doubt that exists about the fact that we cannot bring the police to strength in the shorter term. If I did not put everything there, I fully understand that I am being charged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u67	Was that your phone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u68	No, not mine. I turned my phone off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u69	Okay. Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u70	You have to hand it to the Minister: he's doing it very handsomely by turning it around. You notice he has a history as a lawyer. He says, "I talked to the chief of police, I talked to the mayors, and I talked to the unions." People who aren't so into matter, think: oh, then they agree. That is, of course, total nonsense. The unions, the chief of police and the mayors have to deal with 291 million structuralally that has been added. More tasks, fewer people. That's what they've got to deal with. Those are just the boundaries they run into. They have to act in there, because we do not have the political choice here that more money will be added structurally. That's just a fact. It's just not fair to play it so that it seems like everyone agrees, including the unions. But the Minister writes in response to another question I asked why the right to security does not appear in the Constitution: that is not necessary, because security is not in itself; it is necessary to exercise your rights and to live in freedom. But you're gonna need the police to do that. In that context, I find this answer from the Minister rather strange. Let me focus on the budgetary rules, because the Minister is very good at that. The Minister says that there will be 15 million for the vice detectives and 10 million for the fight against trafficking in human beings. That comes from the non-payment of the 2018 prize adjustment. My specific question is: is it structural money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u71	In any case, the answer to the second part of the question is yes. Yeah, it's structural money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u72	We are talking about the rule of law here. It's based on the shoulders of our agents because of the work they do. I have some sort of substitute shame when I actually hear the Minister waving it away here with words like "Well, I can't do much about it right now," maybe with the spring note "Maybe I need a little more time" or "I can't get the capacity right now; I need time for that. The Minister and all his predecessors have seen this coming for years, haven't they? Even the unions say that warnings have been systematically ignored by ministers. Will the Minister respond to that? How could you let this go like this? How could you possibly underestimate this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u73	When I took office, I immediately admitted to your Chamber that I was perhaps a little less involved in the matter at that time. I have often gone over the numbers relating to the occupation and formation with your Chamber. The Chamber was sometimes very critical of that. That is precisely why this cabinet has been there since the beginning of the year, then we have put the 26 October 2017 on the reinforcement of the police. Let me also say very clearly to your Member Van Kooten-Arissen that I want to do everything in my power to get the police back to strength as soon as possible, but at some point those people must also be there on the labour market. And the people who do the police academy also need a number of years to follow that training. We're working on that backup operation. It's hard and hard to bet on. The talks I have with the unions about this are ungodly. I understand very well that there is a certain tone in the letters that went out today. I fully respect that, but we've been talking for a really long time to see how we can work that out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u74	It is nice that the Minister has been looking at the figures since 2017, but measures could have emerged from them. Everyone knows how many agents are in the age group that they are about to retire. 17,000 agents are retiring. My father-in-law is one of those cops retiring next month. The Minister now says he can't do that much, and he points out the capacity, but the Police College says that the training capacity is then 2,000 agents per year for years because of a lack of money. But the Minister now says: "The money is not the problem. I'm just gonna have to take care of that in the spring note. But I can't fill in that capacity right now. I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u75	The Police College currently has a full capacity, so I am not aware that this is understaffed. In order not to have any misunderstandings, I would like to say to those who look into the fact that structural money is available, also for the further expansion of the Police College. Another tricky problem, which I would also like to highlight, is that at some point people from the operation should also be exempted to provide support for training at the Police College. That's part of the job. So you can see that the people in the operation are unfortunately also getting worse. Once again, let me make it very clear that I understand that your members of Nispen and Kuik drive me and say that I should not sit still for a minute and make sure that we really get that capacity in order as quickly as possible. That is understandable, and that is also the critical way in which we deal with each other, but we must leave the facts for what they are. The capacity of the Police College is currently being exploited in such a way that it is sometimes even said that it is going to squeak, grind, scratch or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u76	That's right, because you can't suddenly turn the academy into plunder education. That's what they say: "We don't want to deliver puff education." We want to provide high-quality education. But if the Minister wants to talk about the facts, I would point out the Volkskrant article I am talking about. That article is from 2017. It already asked whether the Police College could not train police officers more quickly and stated that the academy has an annual seat for 2,000 new students. The Ministry of Justice and Security, due to a lack of funds, owns the Police College... has not used that capacity for the past five years. So what the Minister says is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u77	I am trying very hard to just present facts, because this is a difficult discussion. That is clear, because I find that the facts do not yet lead to joy. But it is a fact that, when this cabinet took office, a great deal of money was allocated to extra police, structural, additional capacity at the Police Academy and that the Police Academy is now packed. Mr President, shall I continue? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u78	Your sixth question, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u79	We don't care how you found the police when you arrived. Nor is it the case that we charge you with the current circumstances in this society. However, we do want you to come up with radical measures, make clear choices in the task package, provide structuralally sufficient money and really piss off when a crime unit closes in Amsterdam. That's what we want to feel. I don't feel that right now. I really think it is a missed opportunity if this is the way we should reach an agreement with the unions before 1 January. I don't see that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u80	I feel obliged to say something about Amsterdam now, because that unit was not involved in organised crime. I've had my officials check it again. It is part of the Infrastructure Service, which deals with transport crime. Before we talk about this: that too is an important subject, but we can see here that we have to keep a very close eye on the facts. I began by saying that I understand the urgency indicated by Mr Chicken. I agree with that and I think it might sound a little dramatic. I feel it every day. But I'm not going to sell you tubers for lemons by saying that in 2020 we solved this, because I just loaded some buses full of school leavers to whom I asked if they would like to walk around for a time as a district agent. We're not gonna get anywhere with that. We have an excellent police force and we must keep it that way. I am concerned that this pressure on the police has really been put in place, particularly after the measures we had to take on 18 September. I also immediately talked to a number of teams where it was busy, whether that was in Brabant or in Driebergen. That's what I'm doing all the time. In that respect, I am therefore concerned about the point made by Members, but I keep saying that we will find that we will have that strength in a few years' time, despite the fact that we just have the money on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u81	I would also like to say something, because the inconvenience that is expressed here, above all, by the members of the opposition, is, of course, also apparent when I see what is happening at the moment and what is the state of the police. I certainly have the impression that the Minister himself thinks so; it is not for nothing that he does that. I think it might get worse in the future, because we have not yet reached the bottom of the people who are retiring and the young people who are not yet there. So as far as that goes, we're ain't seeing nothing yet. I would not like to find the solution in blaming each other, but in standing together for the job. That is why I would like to know from the Minister how he conducts this discussion in the LOVP with, for example, the mayors. I think it is very good that Aboutaleb takes responsibility by saying: I am going to limit myself to the number of events. I think that's very good. The Minister isn't about that. He's right about that. The authority is about that kind of thing. But could you shed some light on how you fly that into the LOVP in the coming time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u82	In the LOVP, I have to say that this must have been at the beginning of November, or at the end of October; I would like to point out that we need to have much more discussions about this with each other in the coming period than we have had in recent times. If there is one consultation in which we conclude with each other that it just takes a while before we really have that extra strength, then it is the LOVP. We're gonna keep having that discussion. Mr Van Dam cites the example of the events. It is well known that last summer I raised a question about this in an interview in De Telegraaf. I asked: do we have to have a lot of festivals in the Netherlands, where control of drug possession is needed, and more of those things? That's what society has to do with each other. It's not just about saying to the police, "Keep it going." It's also how we set up society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u83	And LOVP, that's National Security and Police Consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u84	Oh, excuse me. That's National Security and Police Consultation. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u85	Well... And Mr. Van Dam's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u86	Well, then we've established that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u87	I'm with the CDA, so when it comes to guilt, I know how to handle it. But I think, and I would like to insist once again, that the discussion we are having here cannot be non-binding for us either. I watched the performance of the Dutch team this week. I'm so glad there's a championship coming up. At the same time, I am deeply concerned by the police effort involved. In any case, I would like to give you the following. We're just gonna play soccer, I hope. Let's make no mistake about that. But there are all kinds of events, all kinds of national things, even in the longer term, where we have to seriously ask ourselves whether we should like to do so as the Netherlands. I hope that's what you're putting in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u88	I do want to afford to say that I think we should want the Netherlands to become a European champion in the near future. As a big fan of football that seems to be somewhat well-known, I would also like to stress that especially at the Dutch football team, where I often just started looking as a supporter, the peace is quite present. But let's not talk about that any further. I think Mr Van Dam's point is correct. I am also certainly prepared to keep you informed of the progress of the talks at the LOVP next time in an AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u89	It is clear that the entire opposition is shoulder to shoulder when it comes to structural money. I am particularly pleased with the CDA's comment. It makes it very clear that it is also very difficult for the CDA that the money is still not structural. Madam President, may I offer three of my interruptions to the other three coalition parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u90	No, it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u91	Because it would be great if we could finally hear from those other coalition parties how they stand in this? That would make the whole discussion here today much easier. But I'm glad the CDA did. I would like to know through you, Madam President, about the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u92	No, Mr. Krol. It's the Minister's turn now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u93	But it would make the discussion so much easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u94	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u95	Mr President, I will recapitulate my text. In order to make the discussion even easier and to remove a misunderstanding from the honourable Member, Mr Krol: the police have structural money available. For people who look and say, "What's with the structural stuff?" That's money that allows you to do something and that all the years after that there is also to do the same thing. Accidental money is money that you give once and with which you can do something once. It's basically simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u96	People know that, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u97	Well, Mr. President, I get the remark here that there's no structural money for the police, when I'm kind of real... I don't want to cause that misunderstanding. That structural money is there from the beginning of this cabinet. That's just gonna be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u98	The mayors in the south of the country and anyone involved in drug crime and the fight against it are begging for structural money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u99	I suggest you move on. I'm curious to see what subject you're starting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u100	So do I, Mr. Chairman. I think I have discussed this point. In fact, I would like to say something about taking away the points and preventing them. For the sake of time, I am not going to go into that very extensively, but it is a huge priority. I believe that everyone in the Chamber agrees with me that it is precisely the taking away of every cent of criminals who seriously discourage criminals. This is quite apart from the fact that interesting thoughts have emerged from your Chamber about the use of money taken away from criminals for the community. But I'll get to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. In the context of taking that away, this multidisciplinary team is really going to speed up and strengthen in the area of jointness and reinforcement at the Public Prosecutor's Office, the FIOD, the police, customs and also at the so-called Financial Intelligence Unit. That is a unit where a lot of data, data, are collected, which are connected by means of technology, so that much more and very quickly, dazzlingly quickly, gets insight into certain criminal connections. That is why I came to you this summer with my colleague Hoekstra with a very detailed plan in the context of taking and anti-money laundering. For the sake of time, we are talking about the budget, and I refer you to the whole plan of action contained in it. But with the extra money that is now available, I will therefore also give the approach an extra injection. We are also working on the implementation of the European Confiscation Regulation. It will come into effect sometime next year. I would also like to look at some of your members, such as Mr Groothuizen, Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mrs Van Toorenburg, who have asked the question: are you also looking creatively at new arrangements? Yes. I have already announced that I will investigate the possibilities of criminal justice. In addition, we want to work towards a continuous power monitor. I also want to look at the non-conviction-based confiscation. This is a system which applies in Italy and on which Mr Groothuizen gave an interesting notion to your Chamber and to the Cabinet yesterday. That's about you explaining to me briefly, actually reversing the burden of proof. I'm looking at the member Yeşilgöz again. You have a lot more to say to someone: "You have $10 million in your bank account." Show me where you got that. If you can't prove that, we're going to confiscate that money until further notice. Mr. Chairman. I come to an important point. If it's all right with you, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to honor one of your members. He's not here today. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u101	Mrs Yeşilgöz wants to interrupt, but finish your sentence. I wonder who you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u102	That is a pity, because Mrs Yeşilgöz might be pleased. It's her party mate, Mrs. Laan-Selschap. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap filed a motion in this Chamber a year ago for a real-estate pilot. She suggested that buildings taken from criminals should be made available to the community again, especially the community within which those premises were located and in which people were really oppressed or intimidated by those criminals. That pilot is now in the final stage of preparation and will start early next year. You may be wondering why there should be a pilot for that. That's because you really need to look at what exactly should be the destination of these kinds of properties, and because of course you also have to take care of those properties yourself for a number of years. So that all has to be well put together. The State's Attorney's Office, which is in charge of this matter, must be able to give its assent in a state of law. In this context, I would like to reply once again to the questions put by Mrs Yeşilgöz, Mrs Kuik and Mr Grothuizen on this subject and on the related subject. I think that the idea of allowing seized goods to benefit the people who really suffered from it is a very interesting and sympathetic one. So if that pilot is going to run, I would also like to discuss this possibility with Finance and Home Affairs and Kingdom relations, to see if we can come to such a legal arrangement. The same goes for D66's suggestion to take money from criminals without conviction, but I have already mentioned it. That's the non-conviction-based confiscation. Mr President, I will stop for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u103	Yes, but I was curious to see how far you are with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u104	Well, I have one more thing in this connection. That is something I would like to point out in a general sense. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the proceeds from the taking of criminal money go to the general funds. I've explained that before in the Chamber. So they come in the bank account of the Minister of Finance. There are two reasons why these proceeds do not remain with the Justice Department. The first is that the Justice budget would then go up and down with the number of criminals taken millions in a year. That's not good. Then there is the second reason, which I think is very important. It would give a perverse incentive anyway. I'm gonna talk about morals later, so fighting child pornography and stuff like that. I think that is a very important subject, but we are not going to raise money. And then you could get the situation that our authorities decide to focus on a particular subject because it raises money. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u105	I'd like to give the Minister another tip. In Sicily they have experience with this. I showed the minister yesterday the photo of an impounded car that went to the police. In Sicily they put a foundation in between and that causes that perverse stimulus to suddenly become a lot less. It's just a tip I'd like to give the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u106	We must, of course, be careful not to set up all kinds of legal structures against which we are focusing our anti-undermining policies. I'm afraid I'm not really getting tip money here. I have discussed my points on this subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u107	I have two questions about this, about the impact. The first one is about being able to take the lake away. I like the fact that this is being investigated further. We had also expressly asked to look at the possibility of taking away family members, including Italian models. That goes beyond what we are already doing in the Netherlands. Does the Minister at least want that involved in what he's working out now? When it comes to a take-away fund, that does not necessarily mean that you can see it as detrimental in the JenV budget. You can do it separately. You can also treat it as occasional money for certain plans we have to deal with undermining. There are variations to come up with. I understand the risk mentioned by the Minister, as we can see from the traffic fines, but that does not mean that it is the only way. So I'd like to give that to you. I would be very sorry if, for this reason, we did not give real form to a packing fund, because I think that is a very broad shared wish, and at least a wish from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u108	That kind of confuses me. A clear agreement has been reached on this in the coalition agreement. I have sympathy for ideas that come up about how to do that, but I really don't see any room in the coalition agreement. It could certainly be an option for another cabinet. But in the event that I am still in The Hague, I would still find what I have just said, namely that you should not do so. I think that point of the perverse stimulus is really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u109	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u110	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a completely different subject: cybersecurity and national security. That is a very important part of my task package. We need to be prepared for terrorist attacks, combat foreign government interference, be resistant to digital threats, and in that context also prevent all kinds of things from going wrong in our country due to power outages. That is a concrete task. That is what my services are doing day and night in the interests of national security. Although the trend is that there are fewer attacks in Western Europe, there is still a terrorist threat in the Netherlands. Among other things, Mr De Graaf of the PVV said something about this yesterday. The acute threat of IS, ISIS or Daesh..... seems weakened, but IS and Al-Qaeda do intend to attack Western countries. The imaginable threat comes mainly from loners, for example with a jihadist background. We also see more and more loners in Western Europe with a right-wing extremist background. Dividement in society seems to be growing. Many citizens are rightly concerned about this, as are polarisation. All kinds of social issues lead to debate and sometimes to far-reaching action. National security is therefore not an abstract concept. It is really very concrete about the things I mentioned, whether they are state threats, threats to vital infrastructure, polarisation or even undermining crime. I don't know which Member spoke about it yesterday, excuse me, but I think it's good to repeat that there are links between terrorism and organised crime. Scientific research is just showing that pretty damn hard. These are all themes on which the Cabinet has formulated a reinforced approach in the National Security Strategy 2019. With this strategy, we are not only fulfilling the commitment to your Chamber, but also, for the first time, providing a cabinet-wide approach to threats to national security. One point is cyber security. I have recently had a detailed debate with your Chamber, with a modest delegation from your Chamber, on this subject. I think that Mr Verhoeven, in particular, has formulated very well in that debate what it is all about. We really need to take this cybersecurity seriously with each other and keep an eye on it all the time. It's our digital dike surveillance. We have a beautiful country, with a great infrastructure. This is precisely why we need to ensure that the digital infrastructure remains secure and that it is properly monitored. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to a different subject, morals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u111	Mr Groothuizen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u112	The Minister of Justice is right to stress the importance of cybersecurity. One of the elements is that the police are putting more and more work into detecting these facts. However, that also leads to more cases arriving at the Public Prosecutor's Office. I remember from my Breda time, not so long ago, that there was one cyber officer there, who also served another parquet and spent half the time there on other things. You can imagine what kind of problems that would cause. My question to the Minister of Justice is very simple. Is there enough capacity at the D.A.'s office? Can he make that clear to the Chamber? And, if that capacity is insufficient, what is he going to do to make sure it gets sorted out, so that the D.A. can really take things off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u113	In addition to being a subjective but also a rather dynamic concept, especially when it comes to the digital world. There is capacity, but I spoke with the President of the College of Attorney General this week. I would like to sit down with him again very soon, and I would like to say that, in the run-up to the Spring Paper which has already been mentioned, too, we should look at the points where we should strengthen the chain and, in particular, the extent to which this should be done in the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this context, I would strongly recommend that your Chamber hold a technical briefing by the Department of the Public Prosecutor who is currently dealing with it and is making very good progress in doing so. At least I'd like to start that conversation to see if we should start using that backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u114	As a point of order as far as I am concerned, can we get a letter on what that discussion is about, so that the Chamber also knows what the Minister is doing with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u115	Mr Grothuizen managed it again, because he received the first promise of the day from me, in this case for a letter. I will send that letter to your Chamber between New Year's Day and Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u116	A brief question of order. Is the Minister now done with his point on terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u117	In the sense that I have sent detailed written answers to your Chamber on this matter and have passed through it in the course of the further oral procedure. I'm still going into the subject of morals and culture in my department.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u118	Then there's a question. The minister praises cybersecurity. I think this is justified. The Dutch cybersecurity is so celebrated that I only read in a book that the Dutch simply manage to watch daily with a security camera from one of the most secure locations of the Russian secret service. Chapeau before that. Of course, cybersecurity must not become a political cover in order to stop talking about terrorism here in the Chamber during the budgetary procedure, because that is what we have now achieved with the handfulness of the Minister. That's why I'm asking. The first line of defence is always: it's individual cases. The second line of defense is that it's under the judge. So the third is: the cover-up under cyber security. This is done in order not to talk about terrorism, the terror and the jihad that flood us. Isn't the fact that the day before yesterday, those two people should be called Dutch? Women with two children have arrived in the Netherlands. They were put on a plane by Erdogan, escorted by the police and ended up here. This cabinet continues to exacerbate the terrorist threat and threatens the security of the Netherlands. I made this clear in my first term and explained it clearly. Why doesn't the Minister send these women back to Erdogan and ensure that none of these collaborators get into the Netherlands anymore? That is the question that bothers the Netherlands when it comes to safety. Cyber security is fine, but it's about the next question. Why does the Minister allow people on Dutch soil, sent by Erdogan, to destroy security here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u119	Let me be clear about that. The consistent line of the cabinet has always been that when someone comes from ISIS territory to report to a consulate or an embassy of a country with which we have diplomatic relations, we request the extradition of that person so that that person can be arrested by the Royal Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport and then prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor and that person can be tried. That does not apply to the lady who was deprived of Dutch nationality. This lady, despite my extensive argument to my Turkish colleague, was finally put on a plane to the Netherlands by the Turks. This lady was then detained. She has not yet been admitted to the Netherlands, as it is called, but she has been detained. Here, too, the prosecution has announced prosecution. If that persecution has taken place, then extradition to the country of nationality, Morocco, is at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u120	Send the woman over right away. Saves a lot of money and a lot of trouble and it saves lockup. But Erdogan is still turning the buttons about anyone he wants to send back to the Netherlands and other countries. This cabinet is always hiding behind the treaties, the ECHR, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on Refugees, in which we have actually legally hanged ourselves for the safety of the Netherlands. That's what the minister hides behind every time. The judges decide, and we as politicians can't do anything. I asked the Minister in the first term to say: I do not intend to do so and ask him to withdraw these treaties again. The VVD rogues it to break treaties. So there's movement within the cabinet. Explain these treaties and take care of the safety of the Netherlands. Do not allow any more jihadist scum in this country and make sure that those who are here leave the Netherlands. Then the people will be a little more confident on their own safety. But the Minister seems to refuse this and I want the Minister to move forward, to take more action and to ensure the safety of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u121	We have a very balanced rule of law in the Netherlands. All kinds of scientific research show that states of law provide a great deal of wealth. Here we are talking about someone who has been deprived of Dutch nationality and who, now that she has landed on the plane at Schiphol Airport, is facing prosecution by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is in line with our rule of law. This also applies to people who we ourselves have handed over as Cabinets, which we are actually taking over, because they too will be prosecuted and their legal punishment will not be avoided. With regard to the woman who is not of Dutch nationality, I repeat that, after the trial, extradition to the country of her nationality, Morocco, is certainly on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u122	I would like to continue on this point. In the end, someone who is not a Dutchman, has been deported to the Netherlands by Turkey. I would like to know from the Minister how this can be done. Why wasn't this person deported to Morocco? Following on from the question of the PVV colleague, I would like to know why we should first proceed here rather than immediately. This is someone without a Dutch nationality. To my knowledge, the moment you don't have the right papers to get into this country, you don't get in and you get out. So I don't understand why this woman wasn't deported to Morocco and why we're not deporting her now because she's here now. So the Turks should have sent her straight to Morocco. Now that she's here, why not go straight to Morocco from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u123	As has already been said, we do not want someone who has been deprived of nationality and who is also declared an undesirable stranger, as was the case here. I have therefore also explained in detail to the Turkish colleague that this is someone who is still Moroccan and must be deported to Morocco. My jurisdiction does not extend so far as I can determine what is going on at Ankara airport or, as has actually happened here, that I can prevent the Turkish colleague from saying, in spite of this discussion, that we are going to put this lady on a plane to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u124	I found that interesting, because we struggle very much with strangers who we cannot evict because countries of origin do not want to record them. Were there any other people we would have liked to turn off to Turkey and put them back on the same plane? Perhaps that is a question that the Secretary of State will have to answer later, but it fascinated me that other countries seem to be so easily able to simply transfer people to the Netherlands and we are always neat and neat with laissez-passers and I know a lot about all of them. Just get them back on the plane right away!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u125	Yeah, that's a point I shouldn't go on about. For that, I really need to refer to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u126	Good. It'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u127	Otherwise, I'm going out of my wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u128	I have not received an answer to my question as to why this woman is not now being expelled to Morocco or why we are not starting that procedure, rather than going after it here. I hear the Minister says he has done everything he can to convince the Turks that this woman is not a Dutchman and to keep her there. They have not listened to that, so I would also like to know what is being done about it. This is a violation of international agreements. I can only assume that this is not without consequence. So what can we do, what is being done and why has this lady not already been deported to Morocco?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u129	Now we are going to include things in the Justice and Security budget that do not belong in it, because that really is an answer for the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u130	Yes, yes, yes, Mr De Graaf, I know what you're going to say: it's part of the budget. Otherwise, I'll count it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u131	No, I have a brief point of order, but to the Minister. We had a debate on this two weeks ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u132	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u133	... and it's part of it. We would continue the debate today and yesterday, so it belongs 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u134	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u135	What is decided at some point in diplomatic relations with Turkey is still up to the cabinet. That's one. The first point you raised was the question of why this lady was not immediately deported to Morocco. At some point in time it is the decision to say: if a person, who is not admitted to the Netherlands, is prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, then it is indeed part of the rule of law that such persecution should take place. After the trial here will take place then eviction to Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u137	Mr President, so far. I'd come to the point of vice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u138	Mr. Markuszower?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr President, the Minister has quite rightly indicated that his reply is done in blocks. I don't know when to ask my question about that fatwa. Can I do that now? Is now perhaps a good time, between the two cubes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u140	That's the question you asked in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u141	Yes. I would like to thank the Minister for his written reply. But I think that this subject, a fatwa, a death sentence, a call to kill Geert Wilders, deserves a public answer. It doesn't just have to be taken off in writing. I would therefore ask the Minister to say here what he thinks of this fatwa. I also ask him to deepen or exchange with the Chamber again what the Minister has done now that a Pakistani cleric has already called for the second time to kill Geert Wilders by cutting his throat, and what he is going to do about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u142	I think it is quite right for Mr Markuszower to say that we should discuss this again in public. The way in which people call for violence against Member Wilders is disgusting to me. The way and the extent to which it is done is appalling. In that context, it may be clear, because I am not just saying that I have indeed called for legal aid from Pakistan, where this came from. I remain in constant consultation to see how we can stay on this from the judicial domain. We must never give up on that. This is generally true because of the democracy we have here, and this is in a very different way also a serious attack on our democracy, as well as in the interests of the individual, Mr Wilders. Because it's terrible for him to have to experience this. Let's get that straight. In the meantime, the security of Mr Wilders is a top priority for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u143	Thank you for that answer. In fact, a request for legal aid was made last year in response to the first fatwa of this Pakistani clergyman. Maybe I'm wrong, but I didn't even answer that. Perhaps the Minister can say that there has been an answer, but as far as I understand it, there has been no answer. Now there is a second fatwa, a second death threat, which I hope will not be followed up again, in which followers try to come back to the Netherlands again to try to kill Geert Wilders. What's the minister gonna do? A first request for legal aid does not lead to the desired results, because there has already been a second death threat, a second fatwa. Pakistan didn't even respond to that request for legal aid. Now there may be a second request for legal aid, I understand from the Minister's reply. Now that he knows that there has been no response to the first request, can the Minister do more? Can the Minister promise to send the Pakistani ambassador, for example, out of the country? Or could he at least call in that Pakistani ambassador? Or could he perhaps recall the Dutch ambassador to Pakistan? Or can he impose sanctions? Could he perhaps draw up an attack plan on Pakistan with Minister Blok? I don't know, but do something, Minister. And please tell me a little bit more about what you're going to do, except that legal aid request that leads to nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u144	Of course, it is important to have diplomatic contacts on this subject and to convey the same strong condemnation that I have already expressed. The fact that this fatwa was done again, after by the way the gentleman himself had been imprisoned in Pakistan for six months...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u145	For another crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u146	Absolutely, but in any case it is clear that the Pakistani government is also very unhappy with these types and specifically this gentleman. But this fact certainly prompts us to look again with Mr Blok at how we can take action in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u147	Then I don't have another question, but I'll call it a point of order. It's supposed to be just here these days. Can I then ask through the President for a letter from the Minister, which states what can be done if he has looked at it together with Mr Blok? Then I would like to be briefed on further action on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u148	That seems to me to be a fair request. I will ensure that this letter from Mr Blok and myself will be there within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u149	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u150	I'd gotten to the vice. That is what Mr Klaver's motion, inspired by Mrs Buitenweg, is making an extra effort in the budget, partly as a result of this, and I would like to say out loud. I don't need to explain here anymore what kind of misery causes sexual violence. 22% of women and 6% of men have experienced sex against the will or have been forced into sexual acts they didn't want. Those are actually very sad numbers. It is complicated that coercion in criminal matters cannot always be proven, because there are victims who do not want that sexual contact at all, but who are unable to resist or evade it, or who cannot at least express themselves in such a way that their will to do so is not made clear. I want to protect those victims better, and that's why I come up with a penal code that criminalizes sex against the will. I would add two new crimes, first of all sexual acts against the will and secondly sexually invading the body against the will. If someone indicates that they do not want to do so, they must be listened to and acted upon. If it is not clear whether the other person wants to, then the person taking the initiative has an obligation to investigate. If you don't, you're gonna be a criminal. We are going to say in the law that it is ultimately up to the judge to assess whether the initiator knew or had to know that the other person did not want it at all. With this standard, I am strengthening detection and prosecution and also lowering the threshold for victims to report. I also want to ensure that the message is loud and clear that sex must always be voluntary. I think it is important that people feel safe at home, in the streets and in the pub, and the MeToo movement has also made it abundantly clear how widespread sexual behaviour occurs across borders. She has also focused on how victims feel: humiliated, intimidated or threatened. That's why I'm self-criminalising sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u151	Were you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u152	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u153	Then maybe it's okay if the minister just... Mrs Van Toorenburg has a specific question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u154	We know that this proposal is coming. Now the situation has recently arisen that a 16-year-old girl in Leeuwarden was brutally raped, but in the end the perpetrators were released because it was a bit eventually whether she wanted to or not. This kid was very vulnerable, missing. Would the Minister specifically explain in the next section why this bill could also be needed in situations like this? We had some resistance, as if it were not possible, but this was a very poignant example of which I think it is necessary to have this law. Could the Minister explain that specifically to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u155	I'm going to do that, because I'm going to say it again very quickly, Mr President, because I don't want to waste time, but everyone has to have this on their retina to initiate sex with someone, knowing if the circumstances meant that the other person didn't want to. As Mrs Van Toorenburg points out, there are indeed poignant situations in which a person is very often women, sometimes also men, but usually a woman is suddenly faced with three men and freezes, also a phenomenon from psychology, and can no longer express herself. Then guys should know, otherwise they're weak people: here I should have investigated very carefully if she really wanted to. That is what this is about, and that is what this is about. Mr. Chairman. It hits adults, and it hits kids, too. We are not just going to introduce this law, but we are going to give very clear information and explain why it will be criminal in the future, and I will, of course, go along with the directors involved. I said it at the beginning of my answer on morals: I am investing thanks, once again, to the Claver motion structuralally in the capacity of the vice police, the training of vice detectives and forensic medical research. This additional capacity will be created to deal with more sex cases within the prescribed time limit. There is certainly already some capacity in the other parts of the criminal justice chain. Soon, once this works in the future, that will be looked at again. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the last topic. Of course, I am responsible for all these things, but here I am perhaps extra: the culture and state of affairs in my department, the Department of Justice and Security. There have been several questions asked about it, which I sum up under that heading. I think your member Van der Graaf is looking for her, but I don't see her putting it together well with her question: would you like to reflect on your department and culture? Let me start by describing what that department is like and at least was when I arrived in October 2017. Justice and Security is a very large ministry. Including all parts, 112,000 people work there. Due to the nature of their work, they operate every day at the sharp edge of the cut and are at the centre of the most intense, important and fast-track social developments. In other words, I would just like to put it in perspective: the light is red, the light is green, but with Justice and Security by definition there is something to do every day. I therefore found a ministry where really hard and conscientious work is being done. I would like to say this to Mr Van Dam, and where officials really give me confidence and work well to this day. We shouldn't fall into numbers, but still. This is a department where 1,350 letters are processed each year and 450 sets of parliamentary questions. I'm not gonna bother you, Mr. Chairman. That is what one does with dedication and expertise, and not otherwise. My fellow Members and I have had a lot of exchanges of views with your Chamber in AOHs, in debates and so on. That is good; that keeps the three of us sharp, but that also keeps the subjects going. It gives the civil servants involvement, but it also gives them work. I expect those officials to take responsibility for themselves in the file they are doing, the questions they are answering or the draft letter they are making, to act proactively and to scale up at the right time to put the person concerned in a position and to have the courage and will to engage in the conversation about business with each other and also with each of us, the directors. I believe that the people who work for the core ministry here in The Hague, but also when I come to the country with the police or the fire department. I commend that assertiveness. I'm not saying I'm always happy with the outcome of that assertiveness, but that's something else. I think it's really good that there is. I see Mr Groothuizen. Can I finish this? I'll come back later with some comments. I am impressed by the quality of the officials, not excluding a department. I'm just saying that loud and clear. This ministry is a cooperation between Justice and Security; I said it in my introduction. I'm in favour of that, but I'm in favour of that, too. That's what I've said from the start. Without Justice and Security... In my youth, for most people here, that preconception was also the Soviet Union. He also had a constitution. But if you called on that, you got a one-way ticket to Siberia. That is precisely not what we have, because we have that safety. Those two belong together, because without security, you might as well hang your fundamental rights on the tree. Mr. Chairman. That's what my ministry is for. Of course, it's a collaboration between those two and those two can't do without each other. But that was not achieved without impact in terms of organic structure. You know that, and I know that. But I see that since 2015, when the JenV Verandert programme started in my department, there have been really huge successes in integration with each other, with more openness. You will notice that I have not yet mentioned the word transparency, to which Mr Hiddema referred. So I will not do that again after this remark between the indents. In any case, the communication and all these things are really well in order. And now I come to the point: in every organization, and especially in such a large organization, mistakes are made. Well, we should definitely talk about that. And I think the Chamber has addressed me on those matters, too. I care about that, and that's my responsibility. Criticism must be able to find its way. However, in that context it is also good that we sometimes work with external experts. There was also a mention of this. When we work with externals, we also get external reflection on ourselves, but also on important topics. Those external experts shall do so in addition to their own substantive officials and the managers responsible. We had a few critical discussions before the summer, including on certain painful points from the aftermath of, for example, the WODC issue. As a result, I have had discussions recently with unions and the works council. In addition, we shared the images about culture with each other. And we also agreed to keep doing so periodically. Last year's employee research shows that people are happy to work at the Ministry of Justice and Security. And I say it very carefully, but this ministry is even increasingly seen as an attractive employer. Mr. Chairman. I would, however, like to say to your Chamber that I also believe that we should continue to discuss this matter with each other. This must be done not only when a mistake has been made, but also when the Chamber is concerned about that culture. At least I'll be the first to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u156	In this way, have you answered all the questions relating to culture in the area of Justice and Security?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u157	Yes. I just wanted to say one more thing, if you don't mind. Mr Groothuizen has strongly criticised the provision of information to the Chamber. If business hasn't gone well, it's on me, too. If that is systematic, then we certainly need to talk to the Chamber about it again, because then I seem to be failing to lead it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u158	I'm just thinking. I have the impression that the Minister is shooting a little too fast in the mode of every organization, sometimes something goes wrong. That is true, I think, and I understand very well that the world of justice is complicated and complex, and that perhaps something goes wrong even more often there. However, I would like to give an example of the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber at the end of October following the Wilders case. In it, he writes that he has an external agency look at all e-mails and correspondence, and then set up another external agency to see if that first external agency did well. What does that say about the confidence that the Minister himself has that the right information is provided by his officials?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u159	If it's all right with you, Mr. President, I'll make one small correction. One agency is SSC-ICT. That's an institution that's under the Home Office. There they work with software from an independent party, namely ZyLAB. In fact, Deloitte is currently doing an extra check. That doesn't happen because I don't trust my officials in this. The officials who are doing this, I regularly speak and I vouch for their integrity. But mistakes can also be made here. Something can be missed in such a search. And I have said on many occasions that I think that your Chamber is entitled to ensure that the information that is being collected is actually generated and checked again. We shall be debating this later. This is happening here this way, just because I don't have that human factor here... Well, I don't want things to happen by accident, then we say: with a double check we would have just gotten a little more out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u160	That you want to avoid errors, maybe explains that you're doing a double check, but also external agencies can make mistakes. So apparently the Minister doesn't have the idea that all the information comes up if he just says in his own organization that he wants to have everything that relates to that case above the table. I do not want to see the urgency and importance of this in the department being recognized in this matter. So I'd really like to ask the Minister if this is the whole story. Or is it the case that in 2017 the Minister also just found an organisation in which occasionally unpleasant information does not come on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u161	It's not like I found an organization, like you're opening a door and saying, "Look, an organization." From the bottom of my ministerial heart, I have to tell you that in the last two years I have really become convinced that the organizational structure is well organized. Let's start with that. There are good people in the right places. I mean qualitatively, professionally well. It's not like anyone comes to you and says, well, I don't really know anything about this, but I've just made a note for you. That is inconceivable in the case of Justice and Security. The third is that there is a high degree of sense of integrity. I use these big words because if there is a question, whether a letter should be sent to your Chamber, not only to the supervisor or the final manager, but also to the young official who made the first draft. I've been used to watching it with everyone who's been involved in something my whole life. That's why I find that integrity is great. Mistakes are sometimes made. In my introduction, I said something about the Ministry, which is in enormous dynamics and is also socially quite under a magnifying glass. This sometimes leads people to make a mistake by mistake, but it doesn't have to be a mistake. The reason I have put outsiders into this is that this is a matter that is a lot of social unrest and attention. So that's what we have to do. But I just mentioned the number of letters that go out and the number of questionsets. It is really not the case that I say every ten question sets: let's have Deloitte check this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u162	I would like to ask the Minister: if he had to give culture and transparency in his ministry a report figure, what would that figure be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u163	I would not use that second word anymore, I just promised Mr Hiddema. But I really give the quality, the cooperation and the manners in the ministry a high grade. Let me just say, like, 8,5 or something. Yeah, if I go too high, people don't have an incentive anymore, and then things don't go well. But in this organization I see the drive and vocation you see in the police and firefighters among my officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u164	I also have another point, Mr President. That's my next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u165	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u166	I'm gonna ask for the report number again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u167	It'll be quick with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u168	This was very short, but my colleague Van Ojik allowed it. I just checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u169	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u170	I'd like to return to organized crime and undermining. I waited a while, because I thought it might still come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u171	No, it's been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u172	I know, I know, but I thought maybe there'd be more. I also said yesterday in my own speech: when we are discussing organised crime, I notice that it is very often about repression and far too little about prevention. I hear the Minister more and more about prevention. I read in the written answers that he is very interested in our proposal for a counter-undermining coordinator. I am optimistic, but I would also like to hear from the Minister that, as far as he is concerned, in the broad offensive he is developing, the right balance must be struck between prevention and repression. Providing perspective at the bottom, being tough at the top, as I said yesterday. I would like to hear from the Minister that that is also his commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u173	Mr President, you do not want me to explain too much, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u174	Well, you've been at it for almost two hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u175	Well, I didn't have any questions either. But look, I've answered a number of things in writing. This is also the point, but I am going to go into it orally. I think it is a good idea to give someone real final coordination on the enormous commitment we are going to make to tackling serious crime. That would then be a Director-General in the mind of GroenLinks. That, I think, is a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u176	I have two things. One, let's talk about culture. Let me say first of all that I appreciate a minister who stands for his officials and for his ministry. It would be very bad if it weren't, so compliments for that. At the same time, it is very difficult for us as a Chamber to take on elements such as culture and attitude. In the end, it is here that we feel informed at the appropriate moments. There are some concerns about that in this context. The other day, Professor Paul Hart was in Buitenhof, I believe together with former Minister Sorgdrager. It made relevant comments. Does the Minister ever talk to people like this to guide this from the outside? As a Member of Parliament, I do not need to hear any of that, but I would be reassured if these routes were to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u177	As a matter of fact, I don't know if it's a coincidence. Mr. Hart is also a consultant involved in our ministry. For example, I have also spoken with similar experts in the context of the reports on the WODC and other issues. I have also received recommendations on this in the organisation that were sometimes firm and fortunately have been arrested. Then, of course, I'll speak to the people who wrote those reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u178	It's a little rough transitions, but it's no different. I have one more thing in the field of undermining. During the General Political Reviews we also talked about increasing the tip money. In my view, that point is so simple to settle, but it has not yet been settled. Can the Minister explain what is against it and what prevents him from taking steps in the very short term? For I am truly convinced that, particularly in the search for certain gentlemen whom we would all like to see behind bars, that would be an essential contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u179	Very soon. I can promise that before Christmas I will return to your Chamber in a letter, because this is indeed an important subject. However, I have found that experts have different views on the extent to which this is actually achieving more results. But I will return to that in a letter to your Chamber. Mr President, if I may, very quickly, I realise that I was a little short on the issue of prevention, which Mr Van den Berge was talking about, but that was because I wanted to finish it for you as soon as possible. I would like to say a few words about this. I keep talking about rolling, taking and preventing. For a Minister of Justice and Security, it's quite new that I free up money for the field of youth work and more of that kind of stuff. It's rightly Operation School Square called by Mrs. Kikking. I'm working on that problem right now. I am doing this together with a number of fellow Members of this House, including the colleague for Legal Protection, who is much more involved here, and the colleague for Health, Welfare and Sport. I shall return to your Chamber shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u180	I still have all my interruptions, ten of them, so you're free to go to the turds. I'm planning on losing a few right now. I want to clear up a misunderstanding. Because in the written answer to my question on the e-screener, the Minister says that there is apparently a misunderstanding with Mr Wassenberg, but I think there is a misunderstanding with the Ministry. I'm gonna try and get it out of the way very briefly. That e-screener is a test for existing and new cases. If you fail the e-screener test, it doesn't mean you turn in your weapon immediately, but it means that a counter-expertise can be requested more or less. The Supreme Court says that this test is rightly very strict. The Minister agrees with this in his letter of 7 October. But then there'll be a lobby of the hunter's association. On 29 October, the Minister writes that the implementation practice is failing and that the e-screener is therefore postponed for existing cases. But that e-screener is okay, right? That execution practice isn't okay. That's what I want to know from the Minister. What goes wrong is that if there's a negative test, if there's a negative result, there's no counter-expertise. So I would like to know from the Minister whether he agrees with me that the e-screener is right in itself, that he remains right behind it and that he only says that there should be a counter-expertise if there is a negative result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u181	That was ten questions in one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u182	Mr President, you may remove two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u183	In any case, I shall return to this matter in a letter within a reasonable time. I would suggest that we go into this in greater detail. With all honor and virtue, but the question was formulated in such a way that it has produced some ambiguity in how it should be interpreted. So I can only promise that I will return to your Chamber in some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u184	I understand that there is a general consultation in committee on 19 December. Perhaps it will be possible before then, so that Mr Wassenberg knows it too. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u185	I am also asking because between 7 October and 29 October there were only three weeks. At that time, the Minister was obviously able to act very quickly and say: I withdraw my support for that e-screener, for existing cases; they are going to be judged in the old way. That's what the minister writes on October 29th. So I wonder why it's taking so long. The e-screener is the final part of the implementation of the European Firearms Act. I would particularly like to know that this is very important how it is possible to delete it for existing cases. This implementation must be carried out in full, mustn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u186	On the first point, because there should not be the impression that there has been some lobby that has led me to something. We have simply established at the department, in consultation with the police, that there were some doubts as to exactly how it worked out. We couldn't finally answer whether this was the execution practice, the counter-expertise or whether something didn't quite make sense with that test. As I said, I will return to you for the AO of 19 December. I would therefore like to address this European problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u187	I'm not asking this for nothing, what I've seen, of course, that hunter lobby. But the minister writes on 29 October: "The KNSA and the KNJV', which is the hunter's association, are critical in their reactions. I'll take that seriously and talk to them again. So he writes about the hunters' lobby himself, so I'm not making it up. The Minister writes it himself, so I would also like to ask if the hunters were his main advisor in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u188	No, that's not how it works. Mr Wassenberg knows that. That's not how he knows me, and that's not how it works in my department. But we have established with each other that we still have to take a very close look at this. Again, I promised that I'd come up with a week before that AO had an effect on the previous letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u189	Good. Then I'm gonna... Yes, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u190	If I still... Unless Mr Verhoeven also wants to ask about the e-screener?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u191	Well, no, I have another question, Mr. Chairman. But I do see that Mr Wassenberg's interruptions are continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u192	They're moving fast, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u193	Just this one, Mr. Chairman. You'll get rid of me soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u194	No, I don't want to get rid of you at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u195	Then I'm gonna stand here for a while, Mr. Chairman. I have another question about the restraining order. That restraining order can now only be used as a special condition in the case of conditional penalties. It almost doesn't happen in practice. I read that it is imposed in 3% of 2,000 cases, so that's hardly anything. I had asked the Minister why it took so long for that restraining order to come. The Minister writes: in spring 2020 it will go to the Council of State. But that's not what I asked. I said, what's taking so long? The consultation was in October 2018. In the animal welfare letter of 19 June, the Minister of LNV writes: after the summer comes the restraining ban. Now it's gonna be spring 2020. It's just being postponed and postponed. My reaction is, what's taking so long? My question isn't when it's coming. That is in the spring of 2020; we knew that. But why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u196	This is mainly due to the coordination between the two ministries. I understand this point. I really want to promise that I'm gonna go after that we're gonna be together this month... A letter has already been sent to you. But at least I'll get back to you soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u197	Good. Then I'm gonna... Yes, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u198	One more, Mr. Chairman. Couldn't that tuning have taken place a little earlier? On 19 June, the Minister of LNV wrote: it will come to the Chamber after the summer. Why, then, did this coordination take place only now? Why didn't you know on June 19 that it would take much longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u199	I understand that point. There's been a consultation on that bill. It just paid off a little more to process. I can only apologize for that. I really understand it's gonna be quick now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u200	The letter on facial recognition was signed by the Minister of... Yes, by the minister who stands here now, Mr. Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u201	Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u202	Then I guess the other Secretary of Law is the one, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u203	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u204	I'm sorry I still don't have that title sharp after two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u205	Before legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u206	Before legal protection. Excuse me, excuse me. Can I put the questions best to the Secretary of State for Legal Protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u207	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u208	Put it to the Minister of Justice, don't you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u209	What is Mr Verhoeven's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u210	It's about facial recognition. Your name's on that, too, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u211	Mr Dekker will come back to this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u212	Okay, the Secretary of Law will come back to that. Then I don't count this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u213	That wasn't the best question either. So in that sense, I am glad that we might be able to remove him from the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u214	We'll keep it in! All right, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u215	Mr President, more of a point of order, because the most simple question put yesterday has not been answered. There was only one multiple choice question, but I didn't hear any a, b or c.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u216	Yes, Chairman, indeed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u217	Stay with the microphone, or we won't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u218	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'll keep a closer eye on that. When I was in high school, in junior high school, and that's also a time when no one really wants to remember me. You had a lot of multiplechoice things, but that was always a, b, c and d. Mr Van Nispen only had the choices a, b and c. Hopefully he won't be disappointed that I'm gonna choose d anyway. D is and will remain the misery that happened on 18 September, the murder of Mr Wiersum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u219	Okay, then I'd like to ask the Minister to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u220	The multiple-choice question asked for the highest legal low. Mr. Chairman. I shall now come to the amendments that have been tabled. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 16 by Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. There is no need to shift resources through an amendment here. I will finance that national campaign out of the 3 million in funds available for my anti-Semitism plan. That plan will be implemented under central control to ensure that it is implemented. This central direction will also serve as a point of contact if necessary. If I can read the amendment like that, I'll leave the judgment room. That 3 million is just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u221	The amendment is therefore Chamber of Appeal. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u222	If I may read it that way...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u223	Read like that? An amendment is just a legal amendment, so... Then we'll agree. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u224	Then we'll agree. Then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Van Nispen. I would advise against this, but I will not repeat it, because I have, of course, already made a great deal of responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u225	Maybe it's useful to mention the song as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u226	Excuse me. 20. That was about that amount of 52.4 million. Mr. Chairman. Mr van den Berge's amendment on increasing the amount of security has also been dissuaded. I welcome the resources that have been made available in connection with the Klever motion. With these resources, I can give a strong boost to quality and capacity. But this amendment calls again for money for nine prosecutors to cope with the chain effects. With the money we have at the moment, we are picking up the main bottlenecks that are currently at the state's attorney's office. I'm going to talk to the police and the prosecutor about the exact use of those funds in that respect this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u227	That is the amendment to item No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u228	Yes, and there is a proposal to cover that under Article 92, but these are all amounts which already have a destination, of which it is only necessary to look at how exactly they are distributed among the various organizations. Then that article also has a mandate of 50 million. So you understand that I really must advise against this amendment, but I am sure that GroenLinks will soon be positive about the impact of the 15 million. Mr. Chairman. Mr Grothuizen has tabled an amendment on a cyber officer, to be precise, for 3.849 million. This also implies that there is scope for Article 36 counter-terrorism and national security policy. That is not the case. The resources covered by that Article are needed. They contribute significantly to national security, especially in the field of cybersecurity. The public prosecutor's need for expansion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u229	It's useful if you mention the number. Then we can watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u230	I keep forgetting that, that's my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u231	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u232	That's number six. Is that right? So it's not advisable. I have therefore had the amendments that were before me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u233	Then thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u234	I have made commitments in my letter, but I would like to say out loud that I have undertaken to send a letter about the Centre for Eer Related Violence. That's a police matter. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u235	I've listened to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u236	Always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u237	Thank you. Others can take an example. The Minister spoke reasonably at the beginning about investing in more capacity. This seems to be one of the most important issues. Now money's just not enough. The minister also indicated that he has asked for advance money, that he has invested in the capacity at the Police Academy. Can the Minister indicate exactly how much money has been invested in more agents and what that has resulted in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u238	I would like to come back to that in the second term, because I have to look at that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u239	Then you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u240	A point of order. I have missed an amendment, unless the Minister for Legal Protection agrees. That is the amendment on the Centre for Sexual Violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u241	That's what the Secretary of Law does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u242	Fine. This doesn't count as an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u243	The Minister replied in writing to my question about the investigation into the early detection of exploitation via bank data. That was a successful pilot, as I indicated yesterday. The researchers would like a follow-up. I have read that the Minister has put forward many arguments to show that he sees no need to do so. I find that rather disappointing. Is the Minister willing to talk to the investigators? Can we conclude with this commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u244	Absolutely. That is a very easy commitment. In that reply, I said that there are a number of things already going on in this area and that I would like to return to this type of research and activities in a subsequent version of the broad offensive plan. Then I must have spoken before that. I'd like to take another look at what it is. Mrs Van der Graaf may even come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u245	Fine. The Minister mentioned the Great Houses amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u246	I don't think that was filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u247	No, what are we even talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u248	Excuse me. I missed Mr Groothuizen too. That's my fault, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes I'm in a different reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u249	Okay, then that's corrected. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs. I'd really like to know... Well, I kind of know what subjects the Minister is going to deal with, but I would like that to be shared with the whole Chamber and I would also like to have an idea of the time he needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u250	Mr President, may I briefly mention the blocks? That's six. After a short intro I want to start with legal aid, then justice, victims, then detention forensic care, as a fifth block all questions about digitisation and finally a short block about honor-related violence. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try to do that quickly, because I've heard through your staff that you have a very nice cake in the fridge and that you're going to manage it tonight for the ruler with the smoothest input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u251	You're giving me an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u252	Somehow I decided to go for that cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u253	If that works, I'm gonna do it every night. Also for the MPs, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u254	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u255	Thank you, Madam President. I thank Members for their input and for the questions. We are talking today about the rule of law. The rule of law has, of course, been the result of balancing for centuries. It's not something we're just doing today. Hundreds of years ago they were also looking for answers. By the end of the sixteenth century, after the Dutch had separated themselves from the Spanish rulers, many refugees from the south came to this side of the country, to the region of Holland. Of course, that caused a lot of friction and hassle. The cities became full. One fight hadn't cooled yet or another neighbor's fight was brewing. In a city nearby, in Leiden, the city where I studied, they had something in mind. They introduced the so-called neighborhood lord, a cross between a field guard and a judge. That neighbor brought order, intercedeeded with neighborhood quarrels and imposed fines after fights. For example, over the centuries, it has been searching for the best form in which we can cast the rule of law, a form that fits what time demands. Mr Grapperhaus spoke just now in his introduction about concrete visible actions that protect people. I'll repeat that to him. We want a rule of law that makes a difference, a rule of law that people can fall back on, a rule of law that I believe Mr Van Dam sometimes says should not be an abstract concept, but should be there when people really get in trouble. Today, we are debating what is needed to make the rule of law relevant in people's daily lives, about legal aid that provides solutions, about justice that is available to everyone and also accessible, about what victims need, about effective penalties that ensure retaliation and limit that repetition as much as possible, and finally about legal protection in a digital world. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the subsidised legal aid. I once went into politics because I believe that the government shouldn't get in the way of people trying to save themselves, but when people get in the way, the same government must be there for them if they need help. We do this not by pampering, but by pointing out to people the rights they have and the opportunities that exist and where necessary also to provide support. Access to justice is an essential element here. In fact, we can only shape them well with the help of lawyers. They are an important pillar of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. We have had a lot of discussions on this, also recently in a general discussion. A lot has happened since then. I am glad that the conversations with the lawyer, with the national blanket, after that AO from two weeks ago have accelerated. The decision to improve social attorneys' income by 73 million over the next two years, as requested by the NSA, has brought perspective and the peace and space to continue talking about a new system. Mr Van Nispen asked: but why now? Of course, we have known for a long time that the fees for lawyers are inadequate. In fact, that was one of the reasons why we agreed in the coalition agreement to look at a new system, to review the system. So we never disagreed on the problem either, but perhaps we did about the way in which and the pace in which we were going to look for a solution. In recent months, I became increasingly aware that the urgent needs, which were also referred to in the Jetten/Segers motion during the APB, prevented a discussion on the longer term solution in the short term. That is exactly why we have made an agreement with the lawyer about a bridging arrangement, to do something financially in the form of a financial concession. Several spokesmen rightly argue that this does not yet provide a structural solution. That's right. So we have to keep working hard on a structural solution. I am also saying here that I am convinced that in a new system we can solve more problems for people, while at the same time we can find room to increase the rates for social lawyers by the 10% to 20% that I have charged you. Mr. Chairman. That is why I am voting for the amendment tabled by Mrs Kuiken and Mr Van Nispen in respect of item No. 21 detachment. I do understand the amendment, by the way. They say: see if you can increase that with structural money. Apart from the fact that there is no cover for this amendment, this cabinet also makes a different choice. We still see an opportunity to review the system within the budgetary framework. That is in the long term, but that is why we have agreed on a bridging loan in the short term, so that we can start that conversation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u256	Have all the questions relating to legal aid been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u257	Not quite yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u258	Then I'd do it. Mr Van Nispen will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u259	Mr Groothuizen asked how I would proceed in order to achieve this. What helps and what's the reason I'm happy is that the impasse we've been in has broken. I'm sure we won't agree on all the points immediately, but we're having another conversation. That's the only way you're getting closer. It also means that we must continue with the contours as we have outlined them. To be honest, on some of these points, I am not very pessimistic at all. 'Cause what are we gonna do? 1. Better information and better information. The moment you look for a legal question, you come into a kind of forest of well-meant advice without knowing how reliable they are. You can do better than that. 2. We focus on speaking hours closer to people, in the neighborhood, in libraries, with a better link between the social and the legal domain. The Legal Loket started that in a number of places, including in Almere and Purmerend. There is a larger pilot in Rotterdam-Zuid, in Hillesluis, in which district teams, the Legal Loket and the social lawyer visit each other. I think we could pretty quickly agree with the lawyer about 1 and 2. Those are good things. 3. We're dealing with the unnecessary procedural behavior of the government. Hand in your own bosom. The motto is and will continue to write not a letter on its feet, but pick up the phone if there is a problem: a little more the human size. We've put all sorts of things into motion. My people were at the Gerbrandy debate recently. I sensed some enthusiasm about this approach. 4. Can you go to another way of financing the social attorney? So no more funding per trial step, but see if you can deal more with the totality of the problem in so-called legal aid packages. That's heavy down there. I also see that this is and will continue to be the central issue of discussion. That's what we're gonna have to talk about. But now that the conversations are running again, I think we can really make meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u260	That's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u261	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u262	Then Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u263	The SP congratulates the social attorneys on the fact that they have partly won. Action pays off. They have received a slightly higher remuneration. But let's put this in perspective. This amounts to EUR 36 million twice, when we actually know that EUR 154 million is needed. That is scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Committee. The Minister's had that report on his desk for two years. If I understand him correctly, he's not going to do anything about this huge distortion of points that has arisen over the next two years, which, for example, is extremely poignant in human and family law. The Minister knows that, too. It can't be that we now have a Minister for Legal Protection, for the first time, who doesn't do anything to his entire ministry about this huge skepticism, so that he doesn't stop a lot of social lawyers from doing this wonderful job? That while so many people warn about class justice in the Netherlands. You can't do that if you're Secretary of Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u264	We're doing something. We are doing what the Lawyers' Order has requested at the moment, and which she herself says we can do something about this acute emergency situation. Is that enough? No. Are we gonna stop the movement we've set in motion? No. It's very much needed. If we succeed in this, I really have the utmost confidence in this. There is room for improving the rates for lawyers in the long term. We calculated that, about 10% to 20%. As far as I'm concerned, we're moving forward. The sooner we can realize that, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u265	So the answer is that nothing will happen in the next two years of this cabinet period. This despite the report of the Van der Meer Committee, in which it was concluded that there has been a skew: people work a lot of hours and get only a few points reimbursed, especially in family law, as the Minister also knows. That's how I understand it. The Minister promises speed with his highly controversial reform of the system. But there is no basis for this in the reports of the Wolfsen Committee and the Barkhuysen Committee, as the Minister knows. On parts there is that ground, on which the discussion continues now, but not on important parts, which should lead to fewer cases. Nor is it substantiated, nor is it financially substantiated, and the Minister knows all this. Social lawyers have now received a little bit from this minister, but this minister has actually tried to buy off some of the discontent without solving the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u266	Two things. There is a report from the Van der Meer Committee that says: if you continue to use the old system, you can do four things and one of them is more money. There are three variants without any extra money, but none of those variants excite me very much. That is precisely the reason why Mr Van Nispen cannot be surprised that I said a year ago: we are indeed not going to do anything with that Van der Meer report. If we stick to the agreements we have made and we in the Netherlands are paying EUR 400 million for legal aid and legal aid, that is an amount that we should not be ashamed of when comparing it with many countries around us. Much better for lawyers, but also much better for law enforcement. Maybe you should see if you can do something different. Can you handle the system yourself? I have outlined what the possibilities are and where they can lead. Yeah, well, I've substantiated that. Of course there are assumptions, but it is well-founded and calculated. You can deny that, but you've had the pieces and I've preached it all. We're going to talk about that again in a general discussion. It's all just been substantiated. There are assumptions in it that we're going to test. I have also indicated that some of these assumptions have now been made. On a number of parts there is even an advantage: we may have estimated a little too carefully. That's good. I do not rule out the possibility that there may also be a setback on a number of parts. We have to take that into account. Those are the meters we need to make right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u267	Good. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u268	A point of order. I do not have any further questions, because I know that we have nothing to expect from the Minister for Legal Protection on this point. The point of order is that what the Minister says is wrong. It is not for nothing that we have had a technical briefing in which officials have admitted that they could not justify that the reform of the system would lead to 30% fewer cases and thus a higher remuneration for lawyers. We shouldn't be saying something here that's actually wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u269	One of the four elements mentioned by the Minister for Legal Protection was the role of the government as a model. 60% of all cases happen because people feel inadequate by the government. This often concerns appeals, appeals to UWV and large municipalities and so on. Now the minister indicated that he's going to bet on that. I'd like to know what his stakes are. How's he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u270	However, coming back to that point of Van Nispen, because I think it is important to continue to emphasise this here. I hear every time Van Nispen says it's unsubstantiated. It is, and you got the numbers. We can argue about this argument, but I also think it is right for the order and the Acts to emphasise that once again. One of those assumptions we make is that we can reduce the state's current business by 10%. 11% of the cases for which legal aid has been provided are administrative matters. If we remove a 10% disc from that, it can eventually lead to fewer cases and thus give room for better compensation for lawyers. How are we gonna do that? In the meantime, I have appointed someone who, on behalf of me and all the secretaries-general of all departments, is negotiating the major implementation services. He's looking at the business. What are the issues in which the government stood in its right and may have rightly said: sorry, but here we stand firm? But there are also a lot of things that are too easy to call for: appeal and object. As a result, people are being hunted at a cost and driven towards a legal path. If you had taken a closer look, you might have been able to help those people. If we manage to reduce the number of unnecessary cases, it will give us a lot of air in the legal aid system. This is how we get started: identifying who are the biggest polluters, setting targets, seeing how it can be done better, and putting forward good examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u271	Let me come back to supporting my colleague Van Nispen, also because the Minister started it. Because it's flimsy. It literally says in the report that it's an assumption, but that it can't be further worked out because there's no data. It remains a kind of qualitative measurement: we are going to do this and we expect this. But it wasn't tested anywhere. I understand. I worked for a medium-sized town myself. I had a colleague who was head of legal affairs. If there was an objection, the first thing he did was always invite people to a conversation. Half the people then refrained from further objection; they just wanted to be heard. So it's quite possible. I would like to know from the Minister where we can pay him in two years' time, if it is 10% or 11%. Is that the 11%? Does he intend to set that as an ambition level in those two years? Is he going to divide that into different parts, or is he saying it's an effort obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u272	You can deal with me on the gauges we make in the revision of the legal aid system and on the fulfilment of the assumption we have made. On a number of points, it may not work. Then we need to take new measures. On a number of points it may be possible to do so. Why do I have faith in this? Of all cases in which legal aid is given, approximately 11% is administrative law. That 11% is 40,000 cases. We are trying to reduce that number by 10%. It is right to ask whether this is going to work and whether we are sure that this will work. I would like to invite Mr Azarkan to try together in practice to see if that will work. That seems to be a good objective. I'm confident it'll work. I was at the courthouse in Gelderland a few weeks ago. That's where I spoke to the team chief of the Administrative Law Department. It has mapped out the state of all social security matters. Half of the cases we get here should not go to court, he said, often because a citizen is trying to make a mistake. Then the execution organisation is in its right. But also just because there is sometimes no listening to a rightful story of someone saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u273	That's a long answer to a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u274	... that his benefit is ending. Let's see if we can do that in practice. I think that 10% is perhaps still very conservatively estimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u275	Yeah, hold on. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u276	Mr Dekker's cake is getting a little out of sight, but he's coming more my way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u277	I won't count that interruption. Minister, you're still on topic number one, and you've got about five more topics. Actually, I'd like to keep up with it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u278	I'm moving on to justice. What can lead to constructive consultation lies in the area of justice, as we have seen recently. I'm a lot more cheerful here than last year. We have been able to make good agreements with the Court of Justice on money, on workload and on the elimination of backlogs. Dutch judges do important and good work, but cases sometimes stay too long. There is still too little digital work to be done and each court works in its own way. This must be changed, because in a democratic state governed by the rule of law, we cannot do without strong, independent, modern justice. We need justice that is accessible to everyone, also digitally accessible, and that enables people to effectively achieve their rights. There I would like to echo the words of Mr Van der Staaij. He says: carefully yes, but also likes a little speed. That's true, because getting right doesn't feel right until you don't have to wait years for it. Getting rid of the backlogs and speeding up the lead times is really priority number one. The judiciary itself is working on that acceleration. Mr Groothuizen asked whether this would really work and how judges and non-judges look at this. The awareness that delays need to be eliminated is widely borne within the organisation, both by judges and non-Justices. It is for the first time that the elimination of backlogs is also really so widely worn and so impregnantly placed within the whole organization. We are taking the time to do so, because it is not something that has been resolved from today to tomorrow. A period of three years, which these agreements are about, is, in my view, a real objective. The judiciary is also putting resources into it, including new resources. There will be flying brigades, allowing employees to be deployed in the places where it is most needed. The Court of Justice has also agreed on who is in charge and on how to speed up decision-making. So working with smaller groups of directors who have mandates on behalf of the entire organization. All that together, support, extra money and direction, give me the confidence that it's gonna work. It doesn't happen by itself, but it's fair to assume that I'm on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u279	Were you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u280	Not with the whole block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u281	Then I would suggest that the Minister conclude this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u282	Mr. Chairman. This also immediately affects the administrative relations in the rule of law, the trias politicians, with the various state powers balancing each other. Mr Groothuizen asked me how I looked at this. Well, the Chamber adopts laws, the Cabinet stands at the stage of execution, the Parliament controls the Cabinet and the judge can make independent judgments in the application of laws and regulations in specific cases. The key principle of the rule of law is that the government is also bound by the same laws and regulations that apply to everyone. As a practical answer to Mr Grothuizen's question, I am therefore saying: yes, the government too is bound by the judgments that a judge makes, even if we are perhaps not entirely happy with them. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. Of course, we have all kinds of legal remedies at our disposal. We can appeal, or in cassation, we have done so recently in a number of cases, but it stands that an irrevocable judgment should simply be enforced. Another constitutional point by Mr Grothuizen was about my role in appointments. How do you get a good divorce? My idea is to limit the role of the Minister to, for example, participation on a job profile or the final presentation to the King. Someone's got to do that talk too, I'd say. I have a lot to do with the Council of Justice, so I think it is wise to retain some role for the Minister in the future. This is also in line with the system of responsibility for the functioning of the judiciary. If things don't go well, eventually the Chamber can only call one person to account, and that's me. So we are looking at a good balance between two parts: the independence of the judiciary on the one hand and my role as system responsible on the other. Furthermore, there is a broader discussion about appointments, for example the appointment of the President and the involvement of judges and non-judges. I understand from the Court of Justice that it will come forward with proposals at the beginning of next year. Then I can be expected to have a legislative proposal. Then there is a remark about the effective social justice system. Mr Van Nispen wants to know to what extent I can contribute to an accessible, accessible case law, with which I can also do something about trust in justice. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked for this. It is well known that I am enthusiastic about the initiatives that are under way. As with a new legal aid system, this is also a way of looking at how to find more accessible practical solutions for people. There are several initiatives, in The Hague, Rotterdam and Eindhoven, each in their own form. We have allocated extra money to give a little extra boost to the movement that has been initiated. In your Chamber there is now a temporary experimental law, which also provides more legal space to bring that right close to home. I know that there is a great deal of enthusiasm for this in the case-law, so I hope that this law can be dealt with quickly. In the end, of course, we have to see if it really works. Is it possible to solve problems better with a proximity judge, a neighborhood judge, so that people can move on? That is also where the rule of law has to deliver. Mediation. Questions have been asked about this too. This fits perfectly in the line of legal aid new style and socially effective justice. An approach where we see if people aren't able to get out of it. We know that this will help resolve conflicts more sustainably and bring longer solutions. I am very seriously engaged in our justice with a firmer and also legal basis for mediation. I hope to be able to inform you of this before the AO Dispute Settlement at the end of January. We are also working on a policy framework for reparation law that clarifies the place of mediation in criminal law. Then there's the money. Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van der Graaf asked. Is that what you're gonna come up with? There is also an amendment. Let me put it this way: if we don't get out of this, like this year, then we're gonna settle it. These are not the amounts on which it should stick. As far as I am concerned, the same applies for next year. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that I am in favour of the amendment. 19 betrayed because that, even if you look at the cover, is unwise in my eyes. Then I'll be at the end of the line of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u283	The Minister says that the ambition to reduce backlogs is realistic. My concern is that judges, who have been heavily burdened in recent years, are now suddenly facing a job to get rid of extra cases, while we all know that we are not just opening up a look of experienced judges. There is no supermarket for that. Can the Minister reassure me that at least this is not going to happen? And that it is not the case that people who already felt that they were working in a cookie factory were going to end up in the cookie factory to quote Mr Van Dam over the next few years, when we actually have extra money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u284	The answer may be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u285	That is absolutely not our intention. Look, Mr Groothuizen would have had a point if we had said that we would get rid of the backlogs with the same people and the same resources. But there's 95 million more. In part, this is also for other things, but in part it is also for capacity expansion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u286	Please continue with the following topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u287	Mr. Chairman. Victims. It's often about the defendant in criminal proceedings, whether there's enough evidence and the level of the sentence. But victims of crime and survivors deserve special attention. They must feel heard, protected and supported. A number of questions have been asked. First of all, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Kuik want to focus on the privacy of victims in criminal law. I fully endorse that. We also see that this has not gone well in the past on parts. We must prevent victims from being harmed once again in their confidence by breaches of privacy. I am hesitant when it comes to doing a new investigation or a new investigation by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, because there is a fairly recent investigation of the WODC. That shows what it takes to take a number of steps. Think, for example, of the renewed OM designation and the quality standards at police and OM. In my view, what is needed now is to ensure that the measures that are on paper are actually countries in practice. I would like to put my energy on that. I think at some point the question will come: did it land? Then we'd have to put the probe in. (NL) Mr President, shall I finish the point of victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u288	If that is possible, but Mrs Van Toorenburg says she has a specific question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u289	We had a conversation with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. They're gonna work on this. I will table a motion in the second term anyway. The Minister has nothing to do with that. We had a round table where we saw too many problems. I just want to have our privacy watchdog's point of view on this point, along with Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u290	You are indeed free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u291	The AP can always do what they want. Especially if there are real infringements, then so should they. Then maybe they'll even have to maintain it. Mr. Chairman. A question has also been asked about the advance payment scheme. Will the victim's advance payments end now? I see there's a lot of fuss and concern about that. Let us be very clear: as far as I am concerned, the advance arrangements remain as they are. The bill referred to by Mrs Van Toorenburg, the Innovation Criminal Procedure Act, is actually only about victims with a claim for damages which is declared inadmissible in the criminal proceedings. We've discussed that before. I believe that Mr Van Nispen's idea was to come up with some sort of clapping structure. That's what we've been trying to do with this bill. Now I see, on the basis of the consultation, that a lot of people have a lot of concerns about that. If that's the case, maybe we should take it out and take a little more time. That would be my proposal. Then injury. We often talk about assisting victims in criminal proceedings, but here we are dealing with civil cases. There too, of course, it must be well arranged. We see that 3% of the number of claims takes longer than two years, mostly due to discussions between insurers and victims. That's a small percentage, but you'll just be in it. That's annoying enough. I think the ideas put forward for this are very sympathetic and useful, but at the same time I think it is wise to look at what is coming out of the investigation that the Injury Damage Board is now implementing. It'll be ready in the spring. That's research based on file analysis. What exactly is going on? Then we know what we have to do to deal with this problem. Finally, an amendment has been tabled by Mr Van den Berge on the financing of the Centre for Sexual Violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u292	On what number?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u293	In part No. 24. I would advise against that amendment. This has to do with the fact that it is not in line with what we have agreed with municipalities. Municipalities have a job to do here. I covered it for a year by saying that I understood that these talks had to start, so together with VWS we advanced that for a year to the municipalities, but it is true that these 35 regional communities themselves are at stake. Mr President, I have come to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u294	Mr Kuik and Mr Van Nispen and myself have spoken about the injury victims. We found it very distressing to note that the investigation into their suffering took longer, and not only that, but also that there has been discussion about their independence, especially since insurers have been allowed to supply their own business and then letters have been sent to the most vulnerable victims, with the question whether they were sure that these data could be used. Many victims, the most complicated ones, then thought: what is happening here? Will the Minister, when that investigation comes, take a very critical look at whether there is serious evidence of an independent and wide-ranging investigation? If we can't appreciate it later, it won't do us much good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u295	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u297	I'm going to say two things. Why I do have faith in it, at the moment, is that it is Utrecht University that is doing this research, not some consultancy agency, but the university. If scientists themselves have doubts about representativeness, I am sure they will make that remark in their report. Two is that the Injury Damage Board is not just a board of insurers. There are also Victim Support Netherlands and injury attorneys. I also assume that the parties to the Injury Board will keep each other on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u298	I have a question about the amendment on Centra Sexual Violence. The minister says it's up to municipalities, but the municipalities say that there are many more reports coming. This is, of course, also a consequence of the political choices we are making, because we want more attention to be paid to tackling sex issues. We believe that there is also a real responsibility for the Ministry of Justice and Security, so we would like the Minister to look for room to support those Centres for Sexual Violence, preferably by embracing our amendment. If he doesn't want to, I'd like to hear how he would. There's a bottleneck there, and that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u299	Okay, let's get this over with. With decentralisation, we have also laid down certain tasks for municipalities. That means: if it gets less, then it's up to municipalities, but when it gets more, it's up to municipalities as well. It can't be that if more reports come in, the municipalities will say, well, then it's no longer our job. So the conversations must take place there now. Municipalities need to see how they are going to ensure a good supply of aid and a good support structure. This is part of that. I call once again on the VNG in these 35 regional communities to make serious work of this and to reach good agreements with the Centre on Sexual Violence. Because there can be no misunderstanding that this is actually one of the municipal tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u300	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u301	Mr. Chairman. Then detention and forensic care. In the case of prison sentences, there is always a double objective. On the one hand, we are retribution: punishment is punishment. And on the other hand, we're doing everything we can to see if you can get people back on the right path through resocialization or treatment, at least if that's in place. We see that much of the prison system is being asked at this time. There are two things that stand out, and Mr Van Nispen has already pointed out this in his story, namely safety on the one hand and the workload and lack of staff on the other. First of all, safety. For security in prisons, there has been increased attention, especially recently. I'm really serious about that. You can see that in this budget. Some extra money has been allocated, namely three million, for doubling the number of dogs, for better fences, for nets and for cameras. We are also using our legal instruments for this. Since 1 November, for example, people, such as visitors, who try to smuggle outside things that are not punishable in the outside world, can be caught. That helps, too. This has led to the first arrests. So that's a sum. However, in the direction of Mrs Yeşilgöz, serious criminals are calling for a reinforced approach. We must prevent them from continuing their criminal activities while serving their prison sentences. Where necessary, therefore, we need to see if we can set up a different regime. We can, for example, ensure that contacts with the inside and the outside world are restricted. I have already indicated that I am positive about the introduction of such a regime. It is good to know that there is a special approach whereby more opportunities are created for serious criminals and for mafia bosses in prison to separate them, so that there is no mutual contact. Closer monitoring of contacts with the outside world will also be ensured. The DJI, the Judicial Institutions Service, is now preparing to start operating a first separate small-scale department in the first quarter of 2020, which is already in the very short term. Then we can see if we're going to extend that to other prisons. I'm also going to see if there's any need for a different provision, some kind of ebi-like provision, just for this hard target group. Then I come to the issue of staff workload. DJI is working incredibly hard on recruiting and training new staff. But fair is fair, the labour market is not always competitive. That is a blessing on the one hand, but at the moment it is also just complicated to find good people. This not only affects the prison system, but also other sectors, such as youth care and the police. The bottleneck is not money or cells, but in finding the right people. We're doing national recruitment campaigns. Since May 2017, about 1,600 new employees have been recruited. Of course, there's progress. Nevertheless, the total occupation has risen by 300 men. So that is really very positive. We are also continuing this recruitment with full force. Mr. Chairman. Then a short switch inside this block, to forensic care. I understand very well that our forensic care is under a magnifying glass, but it is also important to look at the facts. If we put someone in a regular prison without treatment, the chances of them committing another criminal offence in two years' time are 46%. For TBs, this percentage is significantly lower: a small 20%, i.e. 18.8%. Of these, 8.4% commit a TBs-worthy crime. I can draw no conclusion other than that the Netherlands is safer with tbs than without tbs. The people who work in this sector work with the most complicated target group and deserve our support and respect. Now I also know that the TBS system isn't perfect, but it's the best we have. Many countries around us are knocking on our door to see how we're doing here. Recently there was a terrible murder in Belgium; then there sounded sounds like: we only had a tbs like in the Netherlands. Are we completely free of incidents? No. But neither is the ordinary prison system. For me, every incident is another exercise in self-control. If something goes wrong, everyone naturally wonders how that could have happened. This means that we must remain critical, that we must always look at these things seriously, and that we must continue to learn from them. We are. We take every incident seriously. We are always looking critically at the system: what is going well and what can and should be done better? That is precisely why we started a special programme, the Quality Forensic Care programme, in which this should be rolled out, as you could read in the letter of 18 October. This comes on top of the funds we allocated a year and a half ago, a small 30 million, to provide a little more financial air. Then I'd like to move on to digitalization. At the very beginning I said: we must always look for a rule of law that is relevant in people's lives. That life is becoming more digital. That's the biggest change of our time. People also want to know, in a situation of digitalization, that they are safe, that they can assert their rights and that neither the government nor the Facebooks and Googles of this world will be able to use their data without knowing it, without being able to prevent it or without being able to resist it. The desire for protection is no different than in the analogue world, but it is becoming increasingly difficult to keep an overview. I am a great supporter of progress. I believe that technology can bring us a great deal in the private sphere, but can also improve public policy and help our services. But there are also real risk derivatives. That is what Mr Verhoeven rightly points out in his pamphlet; I think he himself called it that. I think it's actually quite a beautiful and well-crafted story. It's a good point to think about. With some of the things he's suggesting, we're also working on. Let me mention, for example, data analysis. We see that more is needed in order to reduce risk derivatives, such as preventing discrimination in data analyses. I have already announced in my letter last month what we are going to do in order to come up with further directives on this issue. The right to privacy is a fundamental right, but I would like to make that clear here too: it is not absolute. The ECHR provides for the possibility of restricting this right for specific purposes, such as security protection. We also see this balance in the GDPR. Take facial recognition, for example. The GDPR prohibits, in principle, the use of facial recognition, but also allows exceptions, including by national law, for example when safety is at stake. The Netherlands responded by stating in the GDPR Implementing Act that we can use facial recognition for identification, for example. Think about security of football stadiums, for example. At my favorite football club, ADO Den Haag, that's a way to help make sure whoever has a stadium ban doesn't come in. Also in matters such as privacy, such as the innocence charge, which Mr Verhoeven talked about, the investigation interest, it is always looking for a balance. It is good to be very clear and transparent about this too. I would also like to correct a misunderstanding. That is the misunderstanding that the innocence presumption would stand in the way of data collection. The government may collect data, including from non-suspected persons. As long as there's a legal basis for it. And it has to be in order to function properly. If the Tax Administration cannot collect information about your assets and your income, then he cannot do his job. If the hospital cannot keep track of your medical records, you will not be given proper care. If the school cannot keep track of learning development, then it cannot do its job. In other words, it is important that governments also have the opportunity and space to collect and process personal data. Of course, it is not the case that data collected by the police makes an unsuspecting person equal to a suspect. There will therefore always have to be further investigation by investigators and only after a human intervention can a person be identified as a suspect. That way, man always stays in charge. Besides, I'm not sitting still. I will continue to work on protecting citizens' privacy in the near future. I check whether the guidelines for data analyses I have developed actually have the desired effect in practice and whether they are feasible. This needs to be made clear in the middle of next year, and this can then provide a basis for further legislation and regulation. So that's a bit of learning work. Furthermore, as proposed by Mr Verhoeven, I will examine whether we can give an annual overview of the ongoing initiatives in the field of new surveillance techniques. I'll inform you about that before the summer. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Verhoeven asked for a ban on SyRI. That belongs to my colleague from Social Affairs; that is a system that helps to detect fraud. I would not be in favour of banning it now. There's a lawsuit going on. I think we should wait and see what the outcome will be. I believe that the judge will rule on this in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u302	Then I'll do a little "Wassenbergje", so a couple of questions on one subject in a row. That sounds good to me. I have, in fact, asked a lot of questions about this issue in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u303	Haven't those questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u304	Mr President, we all have interruptions to ask the necessary additional specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u305	No, no. If there are any questions that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u306	These are supplementary questions and also some points on the written reply. Actually, just as usual. First of all, I just want to say that I find nuance, both in the written reply and in what the Minister has just said and in the letter on facial recognition. I will also say something about this in the second term, because there is a great deal of my relief when it comes to this whole discussion. That's why I wrote that pamphlet: because I'm looking for a balance that I think is looking for right now. My first question concerns the letter on facial recognition. It says that a framework for so-called real-time facial recognition will be looked at. It says the police are gonna do that. I think that's a bit of a narrow approach. Shouldn't other organisations, looking at this with a different perspective, be involved, such as the WRR or the Personal Data Authority? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u307	Each organisation determines when it uses this instrument. The police say: we are dealing with fairly strict laws and regulations. Take the AVG, take the Police Data Act. They already limit the use of this. For example, you have to apply proportionality. That means you can't just put something like that on shoplifting and such. On top of that, the police say: even if it is allowed within the framework of the law, we are doing an additional ethical test. I think that's very good. I can imagine that other government organisations are always wondering whether this is really necessary. On top of that, I think that we should always be critical towards the future when it comes to how this technology is going to develop. Are the current legal safeguards, which are incredibly strict, sufficient or may in future require further adaptation? I think they are sufficient for now, but I do not rule out the fact that more will be needed on this front in the coming years to respond to new developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u308	I have a slightly broader point. Those are the new developments. I've been talking a lot about facial recognition. SyRI is another example. This involves linking all kinds of data files and that can also be done by all kinds of different organisations. There are all kinds of different legal regimes, which together provide a kind of framework. The same goes for facial recognition. This too is a technology that various organisations can use and where different rules apply. That's what the minister writes in the letter. Then it is said: then there is a framework. But I think that framework is a non-binding framework. It's a fragmented framework, which you hope will provide some sort of certainty in its entirety. I see that different technologies are happening, and I am concerned about that. How does the Minister see that? We have incredibly fast developing technologies, with an incredibly grey area of application practice. The legislation has often been fragmented from a number of years ago, from before that time, not up to date and also crumbled. That must then offer us our guarantees. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u309	I understand this point, and that is why it is a good thing that we keep getting it back. There is no single law governing facial recognition. There is an GDPR, which basically says: it is forbidden to store and share biometric data, unless. One of these is that there is a legal basis for it. This means that in the law, for example for the police, or with SyRI in the law implementing social insurance, you build in a separate basis. This also means that such a law must always be approved by your Chamber first if such an organisation is to have a basis for applying it. In other words, you always keep your finger on the wrist. What I can imagine is that you say: we want to take a broad look at the situation now and then, so an inventory of all the laws and regulations in this area, so that you can discuss it in its entirety. But I don't think you can escape the fact that different parts are really regulated by different laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u310	Please continue with the last topic, I believe. Oh, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u311	How many questions do we have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u312	Well, not much. You have three more questions, but the Secretary of State still has to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u313	Then I'm going to say one more and then I'm going to leave it at that, because I understand that this might be a little detailed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u314	No, you can make them all up. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u315	On the other hand, it is a big issue. From SyRI, the Minister now says: we wait for the trial. He actually writes in the written answer: SyRI is dead, there are no more requests from municipalities. There's been a lot of pressure on it. So that's relatively quiet now. I can imagine. Face recognition is almost the opposite. I notice that there are incredibly many companies and incredibly many possible applications, which almost tempt governments to use it. It's almost hot to bet this. The Minister writes very good things in his letter, but he also writes: we are not going to use it structurally, that is not society as I see it. But he also writes that in serious situations there may be room. These serious situations are always the first moments in which a certain graduality is achieved. So how are we going to create a framework for that? I believe that in serious cases too, you should not be able to use such technology without a framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u316	I agree. Let me just visualize it. We don't want to be some kind of China. At the same time, if facial recognition can help, for example, at the external borders, to see who comes in and then I'm not talking about the crooks, but for example about terrorists, I think there might be a basis for applying such a thing. What does the law say? The law says: in principle, use is prohibited unless three conditions are met, namely that you never use it independently, but always in addition to other police data, that the processing of this data is inevitable for the purpose for which you want to use it and that the data is adequately protected. So you will always have to use a test of proportionality: is this far-reaching remedy really suitable for the purpose for which you want to use it? In my view, this also comes out well in the letter that Ferd Grapperhaus wrote. He says: the police use this occasionally and that's good, but we're not going to put cameras in every place in the Netherlands, because that's a society we don't want to live in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u317	Please continue with the last topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u318	Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the challenges of and for the rule of law in an increasingly digitising world, the world of tomorrow. My last topic is about practices that should be a distant past, because they simply don't fit with a free and safe Netherlands in 2019. I am talking about harmful traditional practices such as women's oppression, honour vengeance, marriage imprisonment and girl circumcision. Let me be very clear: this kind of harmful and reprehensible practice does not belong in our country. We have a duty, also a moral duty, to protect people from this. Because you are free in the Netherlands in what you want to believe. That is very beautiful, but you may also decide not to worship God or Allah anymore. You can marry whoever you want in the Netherlands, but you can also say: now I end my marriage. We live in a free country, where there is room for different cultures and for different religions, but if culture and religion affect the freedom of others, then it is up to us to draw a line. Congratulations on the initiative paper in which Mrs Becker raised the whole palette of this type of topic. It also brings forward new proposals. That's what the Cabinet does. I will soon come up with a bill that will put an end to marriage imprisonment, or at least to those who suffer from it, often women, will have to give much more opportunities to go to court with it. I've had a lot of discussions about that with GroenLinks. I come before the end of the year, together with my colleague Hugo de Jonge, with an approach against harmful traditional practices, i.e. girl circumcision or honour revenge, with attention on the one hand to better information and prevention at the front. That can prevent a lot of misery and damage. On the other hand, attention will be paid to an effective approach to the perpetrators. I would like to say to Mrs Becker that by the time I come up with this approach, which will be at the end of the year, with the honourable Members concerned, it is a very broad plan that also affects VWS and Social Affairs...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u319	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u320	I'm so hungry!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u321	I don't know, because the Secretary of State needs asylum and migration, so that cake stays in the fridge for a while. Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u322	I would like to ask a question about tackling undermining. That is what we discussed yesterday in our first term. I explained in my speech that undermining the VVD really consists of the three pillars of prevention - how do we prevent young people who go on the criminal path from becoming big drug lords? Repressive measures and pay-as-you-go. On prevention, I asked specific questions to this Minister, because we hear from experts that for as long as they can remember they see a blind spot where young people can make a lot of money very quickly. Once they go down the criminal path, we've actually lost them, and that's happening so fast that our aid workers and the police are far too late to see it. I would like an undertaking from the Minister that he will come up with an analysis of what is going on there and what we can do about it. I know that there are all kinds of ideas I will conclude, Mr President, I know that this is a long interruption of more youth workers, more people in the street. I get that, and I share that, but I'd really like an analysis of that blind spot. Can the Minister promise that it will be sent to the Chamber in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u323	I am taking this with me, and my colleague has just said a great deal about this: prevention is an integral part of the approach to undermining. I myself am excited about the Top400 in Amsterdam. You also have to be real: you cannot do the whole prevention from the Justice Department. Part of that lies with education, part with care. And in part, it's the prevention of the depravity of certain neighbourhoods. We can't solve all that from the Justice Department. But if you see, for example, that in a family the oldest brother is now becoming a hardened criminal, you can see what you can do to keep those two younger brothers on the straight track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u324	The question is whether an analysis can be made to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u325	We will include that analysis in the plans of Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u326	Yes. Mr. Van Nispen, is there another question that hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u327	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think it slipped in. It is about parole, and I believe that we cannot leave it untapped in the budget debate. There's a 2.5 million euro deficit for parole next year. How is that possible? When are we going to hear more about what the consequences of that are going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u328	This is the opinion of the parole board. The probation has recently received extra money to reduce some waiting lists. That was occasional money on top of the structural resources they receive. There's an end to that. I understand that the parole hearing in the Chamber raises this point in this budget debate. We believe that the current budget for parole should be sufficient to do the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u329	Would you like to know when the Chamber will be informed, Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u330	Yeah, when we get a closer message about that. Because I believe that these discussions are still ongoing, and what tasks are at stake in relation to what budget. At some point we will get further information about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u331	This is the time when we are talking about it, and this is the proposal in the budget. So I didn't have that in pipeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u332	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I'd like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u333	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Secretary of State for Justice and Security, I am responsible for some very important policy areas. The first is Asylum and Migration, and the second is Trafficking and Prostitution. In replying to your Chamber's input in this debate, I first deal with the policy area of Asylum and Migration, and then with Human Trafficking and Prostitution. I have a brief introduction. Then I will deal with three themes: asylum and migration, and then short-term trafficking and prostitution. Mr. Chairman. A reliable and effective asylum and migration policy must be supported by society. Asylum and migration policies must be business, practical and human. It must be characterised by clear language, clear procedures and a smooth handling of requests. Mr. Chairman. What would I want? I would like an asylum policy known as strict, but fair. I would like an asylum policy where refugees who need our protection can also get it, and where we are clear to those whose request for residence is unopposed. I would like an asylum policy where we are hard on those who cause nuisance. That sounds obvious, but it's not that simple. The issues of asylum and migration are complex and unwieldy, and even problematic in part. There are no easy solutions. Otherwise, I and my predecessors would have introduced it from day one. The way forward is decisive, step by step, along with all those involved, tough. That way forward is needed to maintain and increase support, not as an end in itself, but because it is a prerequisite to be able to accommodate people who need our protection. Every day we work hard on this: from the decision-makers at the IND to the chain marines in Ter Apel, from the employees at the Return and Departure Service, to the AZC municipalities, from the employees at the COA, to the KMar and the volunteers at the NGOs. But, Mr. Chairman, more is needed. We must ensure that the system can function better and that it works better. For the next period we have three spearheads. One: the rapid handling of procedures and the improvement of the functioning of the asylum chain. Two: promoting return and a constructive European approach. And three: dealing with nuisance. First of all, the issue of the rapid handling of procedures and the improvement of the functioning of the asylum chain. In a rule of law, citizens, but also the government, must abide by the law. For example, the authorities must comply with the deadlines and conditions laid down for granting asylum. But at the moment those deadlines are considerably exceeded. I sent you all my letter for the budget on the lead times at the IND and the periodic penalty payments. These are a thorn in my eye and they are unacceptable. However, the answer to Mr Bishop's question as to whether I expect further high periodic penalty payments is, unfortunately, affirmative. It is expected that the IND will continue to exceed the legal deadlines for applications for asylum in Track 4. On Mr Bishop and Mr Hiddema's question whether we can ensure that the Law does not apply to periodic penalty payments and appeals in this case, I can be quite clear: this could be done, but it is not the primary solution to this issue. The solution lies in shortening the lead times, and that is what my commitment is aimed at. The IND has taken measures to reduce lead times. I will mention some of them. Extension of decision-making capacity. A central recruitment and training programme for new employees. A target group approach in which similar cases and applications are increasingly dealt with within one team. And more efficient removal of repeated incomplete applications. In order to implement all these measures, it has been decided to finance the IND in a stable manner. Mr Grothuizen has rightly pointed out the need for this. From the beginning of 2018 until now, the IND has adopted around 350 FTEs for the asylum task. The next year the IND expects to adopt 300 FTEs specifically for this task. Of course, these new people need to be trained and trained first, and that takes time and capacity. Earlier, your Chamber was promised that the IND would be able to dispose of 90% of asylum applications within the legal deadline by 2021. This was based on the current inflow forecast for 2019 and 2020. This forecast for the inflow has now been revised upwards. There is a real chance that by 2020 the influx will increase as a result of unrest in countries around Europe. Take, for example, the latest developments in Turkey and Syria. Such geopolitical issues make it a major challenge for the IND to meet the previous commitment, but I am still fully committed to this ambition. The implementation of asylum procedures should be shorter and more efficient, without jeopardising due diligence. Despite all the measures already taken by the IND, I will have an external agency investigate the implementation of the asylum process by the IND. That investigation must be quick, short and powerful. In reply to Mrs Kuik's questions, I would like to say that we have also carried out our own research into the possibilities of shortening the lead times. This has resulted in the measures I described in the letter to your Chamber. The announced external research is intended to assess whether those measures are effective and whether additional measures are still needed. Several members of the Chamber, including Mr Van Ojik, Mr Azarkan, Mrs Kuik and Mr Van Dijk, were concerned about the planned abolition of legal aid in the first part of the asylum procedure. Let me say first of all that with the current form of subsidised legal aid, the Netherlands goes beyond most other Member States and beyond what European legislation requires us to do. In short, the Netherlands has a head on European legislation. The Netherlands is advocating harmonisation of European asylum policy, which means that we must sometimes be prepared to adapt and abandon national practices. This is primarily the reason why we want to abolish this form of legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u335	I'd like to finish this part first. Mr Van Ojik and Mr Azarkan will then be given the floor. We have three members in the Chamber named Van Dijk, so it would be nice to know exactly which Van Dijk is meant. Jasper van Dijk, I think. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u336	Yes, Jasper van Dijk said something about it, but Emiel van Dijk also said something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u337	It's good to break it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u338	Mr President, I will do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u339	That's good. But first, let's finish this topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u340	I just said that this is primarily the reason why we want to abolish this form of legal aid, namely that head of European legislation. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that due diligence in the handling of asylum applications is always paramount for the cabinet. This is guaranteed when the measure is being drawn up, and I am in favour of it. As regards the impact of this measure on the IND and the judiciary, the IND and the Council carried out an implementation test for the case-law. The results shall be involved in the preparation of the draft decision. I am expected to send this and the draft AMvB to the First and Second Chambers in the first quarter of 2020... The other way around: to the Second and First Chambers. With several of you, I believe that the abolition of legal aid should be justified. The impact on the IND will not be discussed in the short term. The tasks do not necessarily fall to the decision-makers who are currently needed to overcome the backlogs. So much for legal aid, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u341	I would like to ask a question about that. A performance test has been carried out, at the request of I believe the entire Upper House. The Secretary of State would draw conclusions from that. That's what the First Chamber asked for in a motion. Then it would be decided, at least, I assume; that seems logical to me whether or not there would be an AMvB looking to abolish that form of legal aid. But the Secretary of State now says: "I've taken that execution test. You're not getting it yet. You won't get it until I send the AMvB to the Chamber. That's a little weird, isn't it? That execution test leads to a certain conclusion. Apparently, the conclusion is that the Secretary of State can just go through, but I can't check that in any way, because I don't have those execution tests. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send the results of these two execution tests to the Chamber so that we as a Chamber can judge whether it is justified to restrict legal aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u342	This has been in the Upper House following a motion by Mrs. Strik. The results of the implementation tests shall be taken into account in the preparation of the draft decision, both by the IND and by the Court of Justice. You will be presented with the execution keys and the design AMvB at the same time. It is a front suspension AMvB, so you can assess the results of the execution keys and the text of the concept AMvB in conjunction. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u343	But the question is whether I can already draw the conclusion from this method that the execution test, of which the State Secretary knows the results, but I do not, seems to be positive in the State Secretary's view on the possibility of introducing that limitation of legal aid. Otherwise, I cannot put it on the table that the Secretary of State says that at least she is going to preside over the AMvB. Apparently that test doesn't see any problems or anything. I hope you understand my question. It seems as if the conclusion has already been drawn before the execution test is sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u344	I repeat what I said. For the assessment by both Chambers, it is very good if the execution tests are submitted to this Chamber together, because there are therefore two.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u345	You may also repeat your question, but it must be brief, Mr. Van Ojik. Otherwise, it's impossible to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u346	Then it doesn't count, does it, Mr. Chairman? So I ask the Secretary of State whether it is true that she has already drawn the conclusion from the results of those two execution tests that it is not problematic in the implementation to limit legal aid. That was the reason why the First Chamber unanimously asked for that test. She asked that because there were doubts about it. It is not often that the First Chamber says unanimously: do you want to take a performance test before doing anything? That's what's happened now. Apparently, the conclusion is that we didn't worry about anything, otherwise the Secretary of State wouldn't just continue on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u347	The execution tests have not led me to not come up with a veil-AMvB at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u348	But we can't control that. That's kind of the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u349	It can be checked when I offer it at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u350	Why not now, I'd like to say. But I'm not gonna waste my precious interruption on that. I believe that this measure is counterproductive. That is also said by all those who know things. The legal aid by lawyers is going to be removed and that work must therefore be done by the IND, while we have just heard that the IND is overloaded, that people are going to die there in the work and that all kinds of targets are not being met. In short, the measure is counterproductive and actually a little muscular, because I don't really see the point. What if it turns out that the work for the IND is indeed going to increase and your goals for achieving procedures, removing waiting times, etc., are not being met or even less well? Are you prepared to say that this is not wise and that we should not do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u351	That's the like-dan question, which is always tricky. Free legal aid was introduced in 2010 with the Programme Introduction Improved Asylum Procedure (PIVA). In 2014, a study was carried out on the PIVA. This shows that since the introduction of legal aid in the first part of the asylum procedure, the procedure has not become more careful. In short: before that, until 2010, it was careful and after that it is also careful. Legal aid has not contributed to a more careful procedure in the first phase of the asylum procedure at the IND. I think that's very important to establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u352	Continue on this point as well. Has this led to a faster lead time for the procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u353	About the lead time in the past period I have already written a few things in the pass-through letter. In 2015, 2016 we had a huge peak. In 2017, the capacity of the IND was scaled too quickly. Fortunately, this Chamber has contributed to a more stable, structural funding. This allows the weather to be updated. But things with the lead times that are the aftermath of the crisis and the overscaling need to be completed now. We're working hard on that. I said that if free legal aid were abolished in the first phase of the asylum procedure, there would be additional work on the IND's shoulders. But these tasks do not necessarily need to be assigned to decision-makers, because they are needed to overcome the backlogs. To provide information and assistance to those seeking asylum in the Netherlands, if there is no legal aid, does not necessarily have to be done by those same decision-makers. That's what other people at the IND are for. That is why I am not so concerned about the additional pressure on capacity and lead times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u354	I'm not sure what the Secretary of State has to do with abolishing this. A lot of experts, fellow Members, have already said that this will lead to more people being called into question and that we will do part of the procedure again. If we grant legal aid from the very beginning, we'll do this very well. Then the file is complete. People will no longer be able to rely on "I haven't understood it correctly," and so on. In the European context, we are doing this very well, even though Mrs Broekers-Knol's predecessor has indeed made some mistakes by rapidly reducing the entire capacity. Now Mrs Broekers-Knol, the Secretary of State, indicated at the beginning that this is also a bit of a European collaboration and that it is a kind of contraction of a European approach. It is not clear to me what this is going to yield, other than that we may have more procedures later and need to provide that assistance later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u355	I and the cabinet are in favour of ensuring that the asylum and migration procedure in Europe is as uniform as possible. The Netherlands has put a head on legal aid. According to the Procedural Directive, legal aid is mandatory in appeal cases, but that is after the first stage of the procedure. Let me give you an example. People are being rejected. They're told it's off, you don't get a license. 80% of the people who get a rejection appeal. 90% of these cases are currently being won by the IND. You must realise that those who have been rejected and appealed have already received legal aid in the first stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u356	The Secretary of State says: it is a shame that we do that; it is not necessary, because these people appeal anyway. But now many experts, including the Van Zwol committee, say that you should not abolish it, but maintain it. Apparently there are also advantages in maintaining that legal aid at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u357	Yeah, that's what Van Zwol says. Van Zwol says: it is good that the first phase of the asylum procedure is independent. At the same time, Van Zwol also says that the procedure done by the IND employees is very professional and that IND employees do their work very carefully. They're doing an excellent job. Then the question is: why do you need an independent third party if the IND employees are doing their job so well? They do their job well, the procedure has been carefully demonstrated by the 2014 WODC report and has not become more careful after the introduction of the free legal aid. We also want this harmonisation with Europe. That is why we say: that headline that the Netherlands put on it, we take it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u358	Finally, Mr President. The Secretary of State indicated that by an external agency, you know my opinion on committees; they shoot like mushrooms out of the ground to investigate the time-limits, methods and so on. That must be done in the short term, so that seems to me to be a bit inconsistent with the care. Does the Secretary of State also take into account whether or not legal aid is granted from the outset? Is that included in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u359	The answer is no. The research is more focused on management. Is the management of the asylum procedure good or can it be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u360	Secretary of State says the head goes off. It is true that we are doing this and most of the other countries in Europe are not. I ask the Secretary of State to make a distinction, and that distinction seems to be there, because we do have one of the shortest periods. We have the eight-day procedure. The procedural directive says that at times when the procedure is very short, we are supposed to have legal aid in order, even before there is a intention to reject it. How does the Secretary of State view this designation within the procedural directive? If the decision-making period is very short, in our case, it is one of the shortest in Europe, in my opinion, that is precisely the careful provision of information to an independent body, an asylum lawyer. Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u361	I repeat myself by reminding myself once again of the investigation carried out by the WODC in 2014, which shows that due diligence after the introduction of legal aid in the first phase of the asylum procedure did not increase in any way than before, before 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u362	I am talking about an obligation through the procedural directive........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If we remove that legal aid and maintain the short eight-day procedure, we are in breach of the procedural directive. I would like a substantive response to that. If we can't do that now, we can do it a little later. At least I want a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u363	In any case, I shall come back to that in the second term if Mr Voordewind is able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u364	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u365	However, I would like to come back to the procedural directive which stipulates that legal aid is mandatory in appeal cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u366	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u367	In addition to the measures taken, we also need a flexible asylum system to cope with the fluctuating influx. That requires quite a bit of the COA's reception locations, for example. We need to take account not only of more asylum seekers, but also of a tight labour market and the real estate market. And the availability of staff in reception locations changes just as much over time. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, the shelters are full. I can't make it prettier than it is. As mentioned above, the COA will take into account a higher occupation than expected in the next two years. So we need to look for additional shelters. Because of the good cooperation we have with municipalities and their positive attitude, I still have every confidence that we can find the necessary capacity. I'm getting my second part now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u368	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u369	I think the King's commissioner in Brabant was pretty clear. He says: first, I want a solution to the nuisance and then perhaps additional places for asylum seekers. In Budel, Oisterwijk and Overloon, safelanders really make things unsafe. I can indicate a situation where a crippled asylum seeker breaks in, threatens and then just walks back out on the street half an hour later. If we organize it together like this, there really is no place in the beautiful Brabant. So I want to know from the Secretary of State how she's going to ensure that this nuisance is effectively stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u370	Let me first say that it is a limited group. That doesn't mean I'm playing down the problem, not at all. It's a bunch of people screwing things up a lot. Let us be very clear about that. That has a very big impact on the municipalities. So it also means a huge impact on the support base for asylum policy. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already said something about the King's Commissioner. I talked to him on the phone myself. I know about the problems and I share his concerns about them. If a criminal offence is committed, these people will come into contact with criminal law. Let's be clear about that, too. Among other things, there is a list of the groups that cause the most trouble. We've also taken measures with the chain marines. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows our approach with the chain marines. It's really starting to pay off. There were many more problems in Ter Apel a while ago. Ever since the chain sailors got here, things have been much better. Those chain marines are also available for Budel. Apart from the chain sailors, the asylum procedure for nuisances is being speeded up, so that they can no longer use reception and support after rejection. In the extreme case, we try to apply additional supervision to nuisances. In consultation with municipalities, we try to do everything we can to ensure that the approach works with the chain marines. Again, that's starting to succeed and it's having success. Mrs Van Toorenburg may have read in the newspaper how the chain sailors deal with this. In this way, we are really trying to do everything we can to ensure that this limited group of people who cause nuisance, to put it mildly unparliamentary, gets beaten up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u371	That's the theory I know and I read. I hear the Secretary of State say it, and it comes back in all the documents. But in my own beautiful Brabant, I see that this is happening. How can I look the owner of a case in the eye with this story, while she's threatened by someone who was drunk and broke in, someone who just doesn't get caught, isn't hung up and doesn't get stuck for long and leaves the country with a plane? How can I explain this anymore? This is a theoretical story. I want the Secretary of State to ensure that people who commit crimes are simply detained, no longer claim shelter, not on any license, but are really removed. This certainly applies to those systematic perpetrators I have proposed before, whom I would like to see arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u372	I have instructed my people within the Ministry to find out what the limits of the law are, to see what possibilities we have to deal with these troublemakers. I'll be in criminal law in a minute, but we'd like to look up the boundaries. That is also what we are doing to see if there may be a need to turn a button somewhere in certain laws or regulations in order to tackle this enormous evil. That is the situation at the moment. I hope that Mrs Van Toorenburg will be convinced that I am really going to do everything I can to deal with this. 'Cause this is a real pestilence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u373	I'm not happy with it. I'm not satisfied with it, because I keep seeing people not only cause trouble, not just screaming a little on the street, being annoying or being a little drunk. These are people who commit crimes, people who simply commit crimes and immediately walk on the streets, without having a residence permit in the Netherlands. So I want these people just to get picked up, locked up and out. If we do not settle this with each other, there is a much greater threat that in the Netherlands all support for every refugee will disappear. So I want this to be given the highest priority seriously, because this cannot be explained anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u374	I can only agree that this is no longer explainable and that it is terrible. If criminal offences have been committed, criminal law applies. It's the best I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u375	Agreed. If you're gonna screw up the support base for refugee shelter, you're gonna have to let these assailants do their thing. But if people commit crimes, if they're criminal, then we just have criminal law and we can put them in jail. So we are talking about the group that is a nuisance and is bloody irritating yesterday we saw in Nieuwsuur really shameless images in that bus.... but which cannot be secured directly on that basis. I understand the Secretary of State is struggling with that. Now the mayor of Westerwolde, which includes Ter Apel, says: make at least a separate shelter, a separate center for these notorious trouble suits, where you put very good staff and where you may not be able to lock them up immediately, but can hold them, or at least prevent them from making the neighborhood unsafe. What does the Secretary of State think of such a separate shelter for troublesome safe-lords?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u376	I say to Mr Jasper van Dijk that I really do everything I can to investigate and see what we can do. This is a possibility I'm investigating. I also said that I wanted to look at legislation and regulations, because it is a question of whether this could be covered by legislation and regulation, because you have to indicate a restriction. You can't lock them up if there's no criminal case. However, I would like to take whatever is possible to see what we can do about it. I can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u377	That is fine, but very specific: the call for a separate shelter for notorious troublemakers is getting louder and louder. We see them from Brabant, from Ter Apel et cetera. A separate shelter, where you can keep them with qualified personnel and sufficient instruments. Would the Secretary of State like to take a quick look at that? When will we hear from her?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u378	I just said I'm very busy trying to see what we can do to keep the troublemakers in the ropes. I just said that and I'm gonna say it again. This is one of the possibilities there are. That's really being investigated. I've been investigating that all along, not just today, because I'm here now. That is really being investigated, because it is a scourge to which we must put an end, so that the shopkeepers in North Brabant feel good and free again. In Ter Apel, thanks to the chain marines, a lot of the problem has been solved. I know about the experiences of the chain sailors; I would like to hear from them what ideas they still have in this area. I'm working on that. It's not gonna take us six months to come up with another plan. Again, I would also like to look at what is possible in the area of legislation and regulation. I want to see what's possible. If there is a button to be turned somewhere that can be legislation, an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement, I don't know if the Chamber will hear it. I don't want to leave anything unproven to keep this evil in check at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u379	I very much appreciate the Secretary of State's desire to look up all the borders to address this problem of harassing and criminal asylum seekers. We have also drawn attention to the fact that it is also important that every incident is recorded, so that it can play a part in the consideration of whether someone can be detained and deported. We also hear drivers in a city like Amsterdam saying that if someone has committed a criminal offence, the police cannot register whether it is an asylum seeker. Can the Secretary of State go into that again? I hope things are different and that you could register if an asylum seeker commits a criminal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u380	I have to take that with my colleague from the Justice and Security Department. He knows exactly in which cases that is and is not possible. The work of the police is not within my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u381	Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform the Court of Justice of this by letter if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u382	I'll take it up with my colleague and then I'll be able to inform the Chamber by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u383	I have been thinking for a while, but I find it quite ludicrous that we are not getting that execution test done to check whether legal aid can be removed and what that means for the capacity and workload at the IND. I would ask the Secretary of State once again to send it to us. It is a request from the Chamber and not to wait until the AMvB is there. My simple question is: is the workload for the IND increasing and is the removal of the asylum attorneys more burdensome?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u384	I think I answered that. My answer is no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u385	Then there is nothing left but for Mr Van Ojik to table a motion calling on the government to send that test to us. It is, of course, ridiculous that, if there is a test which the Chamber itself has asked for and which contains a very clear answer, it will be heavier or it will not be heavier than the Secretary of State who refuses to send. What's she got to hide? What can't the Room know? Why is it so difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u386	It's not something to hide at all. I'm throwing off Mrs. Kuik's assumption. I simply said that I would take the measure to abolish legal aid in the first part of the asylum procedure. I send the draft measure to the Chamber at the same time as the execution test, so that the Chamber can assess it in combination: do we think it is a good idea or do we not think it is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u387	This question has been asked five or six times. The question is whether the execution test can be sent to the Chamber. The Secretary of State says to do so in conjunction with the draft AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u388	Yes, at the same time as the draft AMMB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u389	But can you perhaps justify why the execution test cannot be sent to the Chamber separately? Maybe that'll convince the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u390	I said that the combination of the AMvB with the execution tests gives an assessment of the whole package. Sending the implementation test is beautiful, but it is the combination of the proposal to abolish legal aid in the first phase of the asylum procedure. The Chamber gets the execution keys. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u391	I can only conclude that the Secretary of State has something to hide if she refuses to send this test to the House of Representatives already. I can only conclude that she ignores the important opinion of the Van Zwol committee. I can only conclude that this will further increase the working pressure of the IND and that it will take longer for us to deport asylum seekers, but also that it will take longer for those who are allowed to stay here when it comes to perspective and integration. I really think that's a missed opportunity. My final question is: why does the Secretary of State not already have talks with the social lawyer himself? In 2018 there was a discussion, but not about the decision ahead. Is she willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u392	I'm always willing to have conversations. No problem, as far as that goes. But what it says is that, at European level, we are striving for harmonisation of asylum and migration legislation. Over the headlines that the Netherlands has put on this section, the cabinet has now said to remove them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u393	My very last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u394	Really the very last question, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u395	Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman. You may have other political motives for wanting to abolish legal aid, but just come out for it. But if I ask a simple question, does it get heavier or does it get less heavy? I'll be sent into the woods. Makes me suspicious. I find that almost an insult to the House of Representatives. I honestly don't understand why the Secretary of State wants to have this conversation with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u396	I sincerely believe that I have given a lot of arguments about the care of the procedure, because ultimately it is about not suffering from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u397	We need to leave that test and then come up with a motion, broadly supported by the Chamber, regardless of what parties think of abolishing legal aid. This is a form of patronage that we as a Chamber do not agree with, I hope. I have another question for the Secretary of State, which is not about this, because that would indeed be a repeat. She had come to a close on the block on lead times and workload at the IND. I'd like to know what we're gonna be able to judge the Secretary of State on later. She says she's confident it's gonna be okay and she's gonna do the best she can, but the letter actually says that it can't be predicted when there's actually gonna be a turnaround and the lead times are getting shorter. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to make an attempt. When are we gonna see that turn of events? And then I'm really not gonna try to catch the Secretary of State in a week, but when can we sort of look forward to the turnaround?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u398	In the lead time letter I gave an indication and I wrote that it is not accurate because more people can enter. There may also be fewer influxes. That could be another time. There is an estimate in the spring of 2020, as stated in the lead time letter. I cannot indicate it more accurately, because there are many unknown factors that play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u399	Mr. Chairman. However, I would suggest that we get that execution test during the suspension. It is important for me to agree or not to accept the budget on this basis. I think this one is very important. He's here, he's been asked, also through the Upper Chamber. I do not think that the answer given by the Secretary of State to this question is relevant at all, given the consistency with the general measure of governance and the pending procedure. That test is on its own. What the Secretary of State is doing with this, that there is a correlation with the general measure of governance, I hope so, but I think that this execution test should be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. That takes me too long with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u400	Mr. Chairman. I will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u401	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u402	Let me now turn to a real point of order. The Secretary of State will not be discussed in the second term until after the Chamber has been present. If Mr Azarkan's proposal and many of his requests are not accepted by the Secretary of State, then we shall table a motion which we hope will be supported very widely. Frankly, it would be a pity if that were necessary, because then the Secretary of State would be forced by the Chamber to do something that should be taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u403	Then the point of order is to send the second-term execution test to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u404	No, tomorrow's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u405	Then the Secretary of State may return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u406	No, because the Secretary of State is now saying that she is sending this pass at the same time as the general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u407	No, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u408	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's what the debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u409	Mr. Van Ojik. In response to Mr Azarkan, the Secretary of State said that she would return to this question in the second term. Is that correct, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u410	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u411	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u412	Then she leaves the Chamber no choice but to table a motion. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u413	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u414	'Cause we're ahead of the Secretary of State, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u415	You're not moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u416	I would like to conclude, Mr President, that there may be elements which are important for the debate too, questions for dealing with the budget. That's not possible. Then we'll get him later. He's headed our way anyway. Then I can't involve that in the questioning, to ask the Secretary of State about it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u417	What are you proposing in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u418	No, I'll conclude that. The Secretary of State can do that. My proposal was to get it issued during the suspension. That was my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u419	But I can't... I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u420	I just reported... I understand that Mr Azarkan would like to talk about the implementation test in the second term of the debate. That is actually Mr Azarkan's question. I must honestly say that I do not think it is wise to assess the execution tests without having the AMvB present. Anyway, if necessary... I'm not hiding anything; let me establish that. There's nothing special about it; it's just two execution keys. There are. And if Mr. Azarkan wants it, he gets it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u421	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u422	Very good. Fine! So that means we get it at dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u423	I'll take a look at the officials. Oh, there's a bit of a handshake going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u424	They'll try, let me put it this way. I see them gestures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u425	It's an effort obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u426	You may also e-mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u427	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u428	Then I come to the second point: promoting return and a constructive European approach. My second point concerns the return of people who do not receive a residence permit. Several Members of Parliament, including Mrs Van Toorenburg, raised this point. In society I often hear the question: why don't we just put this group on a plane? It's not that simple, but it does undermine our system. By the way, our return rate is relatively good against other EU countries, but against my ambition and against what should be, there is still a world to be won. Return is an important part of the solution. Anyone rejected must leave. People who do not participate in return get no shelter, no money and no support. That makes it unattractive to stay here. From the first moment someone is staying in the asylum shelter, he or she is being prepared for a possible return. This is a real outcome of the asylum procedure. Expired asylum seekers have the choice to leave voluntarily. The government and various organisations actively support this. However, in response to Mr Bishop's question, anyone who does not use it is facing increasing pressure from the government to leave. If necessary, detention and forced expulsion will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u429	I understand that's how it works in normal diplomatic traffic. But then I find it striking that Turkey simply thinks: 'It will all be. There's a plane coming. There someone goes in; toodledokie to the Netherlands! So if there are also people of Turkish nationality in the Netherlands who may have to go back, why do we not do exactly the same? I'd like to know from the Secretary of State what's holding us back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u430	I think that what is holding us back is that the Netherlands is a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u431	But that's too easy. Because if there are troublemakers who trample on our rule of law and then have to go back to their country of origin, but who simply say they are not going, then the question remains for me: why don't we just put them at the airport to the country where they belong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u432	As I said, that would be a fantastic solution. I would like to do that, too, but once again, as a rule of law, we say: we think that we should only put someone on the plane if there is a passport or a laissez pass. And if there's no laissez-passer, we don't put someone on the plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u433	And that's how the Secretary of State keeps himself prisoner. I can imagine that with certain countries with which things like this happen, we will simply take different measures, because perhaps it will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u434	I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. We're working hard on that, too, together with the State Department and with BH-OS. That's how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u435	I hear the Secretary of State say that 70% of the people currently in the shelter in the Netherlands have no right to be here. I am glad that Mrs Van Toorenburg has finally woken up. After my interruption yesterday, she seems to have seen the light. Indeed, the Turks simply say: we do not want those two IS fighters, so we put them back on the plane to the Netherlands. They'll all be here in a good way, and they'll be escorted by the police. Whatever the Turks do, we have to do. So 70% of those people aren't supposed to be here. In the meantime, you are complaining yourself that all these asylum seekers' centres are full and that more will be opened later, with further problems as a result. I don't know if you watched News hours on TV yesterday; probably did. It's unheard of what misery people all bring with them. And you'll allow it all. The fact that we don't put people on a plane if we don't have a laissez-passer for them is no excuse. No one in the Netherlands understands that answer from you; no one. If other countries do, why, as a good boy in the classroom, do we have to follow the rules and why are we going to see if people have a passport? They come in here without a passport; they come in here with lies, cheating and fake flight stories. And we're all gonna try according to the rules and with a paper reality? Isn't it just time we sent a plane full back to Morocco, back to Algeria, back to where they came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u436	That seems to be a very attractive solution, and if that could be done under the laws and regulations, it might be the result, but that is not the case. That's not how the system works. I'd love to, but I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u437	Then how come that doesn't work? Can you indicate by which regulation you are restricted? Wouldn't it be time to change that regulation if you saw that it caused such great misery to the people of the country? Shopkeepers are constantly dealing with robberies and thefts. People get harassed on the street. Girls with prams are being overthrown by asylum seekers from safe countries, who should not be here. Shouldn't you be working for those people for once? You are responsible here in the Netherlands for Justice and Security, for immigration and asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u438	I thought I'd already explained it to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I'm making a huge effort to find out what possibilities there are for dealing with the troublemakers. All these possibilities I really try to look at: what can we do and how can we do it? Please, let's try to get rid of this nuisance plague. I totally agree with Mr. Emiel van Dijk. I do. But I cannot say that we are taking a number of people to Schiphol Airport and putting them on a plane, and then we hope that they can land there and be taken in there. That chance is extremely small, or rather: it does not exist. The Netherlands does not do that. The Netherlands is waiting for a laissez pass. What is the difference between Turkey and the lady who came here from Turkey? There was a European arrest warrant, she is being prosecuted in the Netherlands and there is a Dutch criminal proceedings. That is a difference, because those who want to put Mr Emiel van Dijk on the plane are put there, and if Turkey or any other country does not want to catch them, they will return to the Netherlands by return mail. Then we're just as far from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u439	Months ago, I heard the Secretary of State say in a debate that Morocco's attitude as a home country was totally uncomfortable: it was a bit late, it was time for Morocco to be more pliable and they should take back those troubles. Madam Secretary of State was committed to ensuring that something was done about it. She said, "I'm going to Morocco myself soon." How did that visit end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u440	That visit did not take place, because I can go to Morocco as a tourist, but the problem is that I do not get to speak to the important minister I need. That's a little tricky. That is now being worked on, including by these Members of Parliament. They've done their best to see what the possibilities are. I do have a conversation with Algeria, and also with Tunisia and Iraq. So we have come a long way in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u441	We have come a long way, but not with Morocco, so I have understood. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're getting kicked out of there. You come on a mission as a ruler, you land there and you don't get to talk to anyone. Well, there can only be one reason they're deliberately avoiding you. I'm sure they'll know you've come into the country. Well, that promises something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u442	Mr President, I think this is a good topic to discuss with the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u443	I find this remarkable. The Secretary of State therefore wanted to go to Morocco to speak with her fellow Members there, and that was simply refused. What did the Ministry and what did the Secretary of State do? This is the signal that Morocco does not take this problem seriously, is it not? Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example, to look at this new visa code and take visa measures, where high-ranking people, for example, can no longer travel to the Netherlands or to Europe? 'Cause this is really crazy. I don't suppose you're gonna let them send you away like that. What are the countermeasures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u444	The new European Visa Code, which will enter into force in February 2020, is indeed something very useful in these procedures, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u445	What exactly was your reaction when you heard you weren't welcome? What did you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u446	I just want to clear up a misunderstanding. It is a misunderstanding that I have already called the bell, that I have been at the door so to speak. I have been told through diplomatic channels and also by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it was pointless, because it is simply difficult and because I do not come in there. So I haven't been knocking on the door of the Ministry of Migration in Morocco, and then not to be admitted. That's not the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u447	Why didn't you come in? You said you didn't come in. Why not? Why weren't you welcome to see your colleague or colleague? How can they refuse to speak to our brand-new Secretary of State on this important subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u448	I think this is an issue that will have to be discussed with the Foreign Minister. The contacts with Morocco are a bit problematic. I have to tell you, and perhaps that is also a good thing that I managed to get more music in the tent with an individual case. This concerns a single individual case. That could offer a small opening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u449	In my view, this shows exactly why we, as a VVD, felt it was so important that the coalition agreement included a much greater need to apply the principle of more less for less for less for countries. All departments should work on this. If we want to achieve migration targets, we must not shy away from using development money or diplomatic measures, for example on visas. That is why I have asked the Secretary of State, and I have not yet had a very clear written answer to this question, or can be mapped out what all the various departments are planning and are planning to do to ensure that that door opens in Morocco. We must do that with both a carrot and a stick, such as possibly leaving out things that Morocco and other countries might like. What are we going to do to ensure that we can make agreements with countries like this and actually send people who have been put to trial back? Can it send such an overview of the activities of the various departments to the Chamber? I understand she can't do this alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u450	I would like to send such an overview, but I need the cooperation of the other departments. So there's not gonna be any tomorrow either. But I think it would be a good idea to look at the possibilities with each other. That's incredibly important. At least I'm going to Nigeria next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u451	I'm listening with increasing amazement. I do not believe that it is often the case that a Dutch ruler in Morocco wants to speak to a member of staff and that she will be told that she is not welcome, as she herself said. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what reason Morocco has given for this. At least I assume there's a reason for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u452	I've been relying on the information I've received from the State Department. And that's it. People said there's no point in going, because you're not allowed to talk to the person you want to talk to. Yeah, that's tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u453	I understand, that was the answer: there is no point in going, because you will not be admitted to the person you want to speak to. But I assume you're asking, is there any argument? I do not believe that there are any examples of Dutch rulers who are prevented from asking a colleague, whether that is in Morocco or anywhere else, and are then told: you are not welcome. So what the Secretary of State says here is quite something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u454	I really think it would be wise to include this in greater detail with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is the Foreign Office that has the contacts on this issue. As I said earlier, also in the AO at the beginning of July, I would very much like to discuss what the possibilities are, because it is important to talk to Morocco. But it only makes sense if I can talk to those who are talking about it. There's no point in going there when I'm talking to someone who's not about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u455	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u456	I understand all that, but what I don't understand is that the Secretary of State didn't ask her foreign minister or anyone else: why am I not welcome in Morocco? If she did ask, I would like to hear the reasons that Morocco has given for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u457	Yeah, same question you just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u458	I didn't ask that specific question; it was just reported to me that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u459	Just so we're clear, what's this fake cabinet? The Secretary of State is here on behalf of the entire cabinet. She's trying to dive by bringing in the Foreign Minister, who isn't here today. It's like, "I'll be done with it." But what's going on? For 40 years we have received hundreds of thousands of Turks and Moroccans in the Netherlands. A lot of them have real estate in their own country and therefore do not have the right to assistance here, but they do. That's gonna cost us. What did it get us? Islamization, mosques and many collaborators with Islamic State, who are now returning to the Netherlands. Morocco refuses this Secretary of State entry and the Turks, Erdogan, ensure that all of these people come to the Netherlands immediately. Already, but later, of course, more, because it sets a precedent. On all sides, the two biggest problem countries we know in the Netherlands when it comes to foreign affairs relations: Morocco and Turkey. Isn't it time that this cabinet took care of the Dutch people and didn't care about these two countries, which were beeping and laughing at us in the face? We're the joke of the world and we let people make us unsafe and jihadists and everything. They just say we don't need them and they don't even want to talk to the Secretary of State. What a shame. What an embarrassment. What a farce. What an échec!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u460	I hope that I have made it clear that I am working very hard to see what possibilities there are and to make a real effort to deal with the problems as Mr De Graaf outlines them. But it's not like it's one-two-three that easy. Mrs. Becker just asked: give an overview. That is important to see what we can do with all of us in the context of more for more and less for less, but also to speak with those we need to speak with. As I said, I have had these contacts in Algeria, in Tunisia and in Iraq. I think it's good to see that I've already taken steps with that. I'm going to Nigeria next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u461	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u462	As I said, there's a need for detention and forced expulsion if people can't leave under duress. In addition to these national measures, cooperation with other EU Member States is important. We must have a fully-fledged European asylum and return policy, because we cannot do that without it. In a European context, we make return arrangements. That happened, for example, with Afghanistan and Bangladesh. That is at European level. I also urge the European Commission and the High Representative to make more of this kind of agreement. You are probably familiar with the reception location in Rwanda which has been agreed between the High Representative and the Government of Rwanda. I myself, but also the Prime Minister and, in particular, the rulers of the State Department and the State Department, have a role in the agreement of the government to discuss with countries of origin their duty to re-enter rejected nationals. I have just talked about this with Mrs Becker, namely that there will be a list. This is done at work visits and international conferences, but also in The Hague on incoming visits or via diplomatic representatives. As far as I am concerned, I have already said it more for more, less for less. This allows you, for example, to link development cooperation or visas to return agreements as agreed in the government agreement. In order to give you an idea, I have already mentioned it. Next week, I will travel to Nigeria with the Prime Minister to discuss migration cooperation with this country, where return is also an important topic of discussion. Mrs Becker also asked for a smart overview of the planning of migration agreements with other countries. I just answered that. I cannot mention confidential conversations, but I am prepared, as I have said, to share them with you. Please note, however, that over a longer period, different steps are needed to achieve results. And again, we have to exercise some discretion, because otherwise it's very difficult to do business. Then I'll get to dealing with nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u463	Yesterday morning I opened the Volkskrant while I was drinking a cappuccino. 'Cause that's what we do at D66 all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u464	Thank you for sharing that information with us!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u465	I won't discuss the rest of breakfast with you, but I almost choked on that cappuccino when I read in the Volkskrant that interview with the Secretary of State. That was a hell of an interview. Now I've learned, in a year or three, that if VVD people don't do well, they give ferocious interviews to hide that they're not doing well. So I understand that, but there are two things I noticed in that interview. The Secretary of State says that the European Commission has done nothing. I think that is obvious nonsense, because if you just look at progress, you will see that it is always the Member States that block everything in the Council. And the Secretary of State says, "Everyone hides behind principles that can't be discussed." Now the case is that we have already noted a number of times in debates with the Secretary of State that if she travels to Brussels or another capital, she will take a list of things that are not negotiable. These are the firm principles of this Secretary of State. If they're not all checked out, there's no talking to this Secretary of State. My question is: are you going to put your own words into practice and will you be flexible in Europe in future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u466	I do not fully recognise what Mr Grothuizen says about the list of irresistible points. I gave the Chamber the commitment of the Netherlands to the new Commission in the JHA Council. The new Commission will take office after 1 December, if it wishes to do so. I am very open about this commitment and I am also talking about it, so I do not understand exactly what Mr Groothuizen is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u467	I believe that a few weeks ago, for example, we talked about an agreement between Germany, Italy and Malta, where the Secretary of State has drawn up exactly the same list with which she has been screening for a year and a half and where, if not all of these are met, there is absolutely no mention of any kind of rapprochement. Then I can only conclude that the Secretary of State is doing exactly the same thing she blames everyone else in the Volkskrant, namely coming up with a list and not wanting to talk about anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u468	I am glad that Mr Groothuizen mentions Malta's agreement, to put it this way, between Germany, France, Italy and Malta. That was an agreement between those countries, to include certain groups of people brought to land in Italy in a certain distribution. The Netherlands wrote and explained a letter in January this year, and Mr Grothuizen is well aware of this: this is the last time we will be working on an ad hoc solution. The solution that has been and is being proposed is still an ad hoc solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u469	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. Refer to what you wrote down a long time ago. Exactly what the Secretary of State blames other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u470	It is easy to say: that is exactly what the Secretary of State blames other people. We have made it very clear what we are doing about this. The Netherlands, the cabinet, is going for a structural European solution and the ad hoc inclusion of people is not a structural European solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u471	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u472	The last spearhead is the nuisance. We've already talked about this in detail. I'd like to say that we're the toughest group of nuisances we've got... close to the skin. A national list of the top X people has been compiled. We approach this group with the whole palette of foreign law, administrative and criminal measures. That goes in close cooperation with Mrs Becker and the organisations in the migration chain, the municipalities, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u473	Before you continue, Mr. Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u474	I have a very brief question for the Secretary of State. Can you send an overview of the persons on that list X to the Chamber so that we can keep track of how many of those people have actually been deported and returned to the country of origin over time? 'Cause that's important, of course. You can draw up nice lists of all tedious people who are not allowed to be here, but that is of course of no use if it only remains with a list and some chain sailors who call after the people who steal, rob, assault, spit on bus drivers and what else they are, and that doesn't mean that these people will eventually be knocked out of the country. So I would like to make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u475	Mr Emiel van Dijk knows very well that a list of names cannot be given. That goes against privacy. There'll be numbers at some point, numbers of people. If the top X works for some time, I think figures will come up. They can be shared, but never a list of names.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u476	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u477	I would like to answer two more questions before I raise the issue of trafficking in human beings and prostitution. Mrs Becker has asked me to identify the possible legal obstacles to withdrawing a residence permit, which the De Leeuw Committee also mentions. Where the IND finds that it can be withdrawn on the basis of current legislation, including case law, it shall be withdrawn. I'll send your room another letter on this. Finally, the case managers. The IND uses these sometimes at the end of complex cases and that has clear advantages. Mr Voordewind wondered whether this was possible even at the beginning of this kind of thing. Due to the large delays of the IND, it is currently difficult to broaden the scope of case management, but the intention is to use the case managers in complex cases in the long term from the start of the procedure. I now come to the trafficking of human beings, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u478	I have a number of questions left and I would like to ask them at the end of this document. The first is about the possibilities for detention. I asked some questions about that yesterday. I read something in the written set about patterns the Secretary of State detects. When people withdraw from supervision when they go MOB, they leave with unknown destination as soon as they know that they will be told not to stay in the Netherlands, she detects patterns in it. I asked her if you could not see those patterns as an indication that someone is going to evade supervision, that there is a risk of withdrawal, and that the conditions for putting someone into detention are not met. The answer to that is not quite clear to me. There is a reference to European legislation that would prevent this, but the European legislation says precisely: a risk of withdrawal from supervision is a condition for putting it in detention. Perhaps it would be worthwhile if we could have another analysis on whether these patterns could contribute to the faster detention of certain people. Would the Secretary of State agree or agree to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u479	I just need to think about whether I can promise right now that I can and that I will. I'm gonna take a look at how that's legal. But if only at all, I am very willing to do so. I may have an answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u480	Okay, thank you. I'll just wait and see. A second question concerns the Chinese, who are currently reporting to municipal offices on a rather large scale in order to change their name, because they actually cheated on their identity at the time in order to qualify for the general pardon. I asked if the Secretary of State could do anything to prevent these people from getting Dutch citizenship. Because in my opinion, identity fraud is an indication of not being able to become a Dutchman. Can the Secretary of State confirm this, and also ensure that municipalities and the IND know that and will follow that up in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u481	The IND is very keen at nationalisation to determine whether someone is committing identity fraud or not. That is being looked at very carefully. However, in response to Mrs Becker's comment, I will bring this to the attention of the IND once more and say that this really needs to be looked at very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u482	I have paid attention to the question of whether it is possible at some point that certain behaviours of asylum seekers who have been processed could also be punishable. Now the Secretary of State writes about that that can sometimes be done when someone avoids leaving. But that's really about the physical moment when someone, almost kicking and punching, says, "I'm not going." I know that, because I worked in the alien custody. In such a situation, you committed a crime. But can the Secretary of State promise us that she will also look at this aspect? At what point does something become criminal? There are people we try to do everything we can to get them to leave voluntarily, but they don't go, or even commit crimes or cause nuisance. I think you should go and see if, in such a situation, our Code of Criminal Law could be an answer. If the Secretary of State makes that whole analysis, can she at least shed some light on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u483	I think it would be a good idea to take a closer look at what we can do there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u484	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u485	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to trafficking in human beings and prostitution. Trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious forms of organised crime. An integrated and tough approach is needed. This is being worked hard in the programme entitled Collaborating against trafficking in human beings. I have recently sent your Chamber a letter of progress on this matter. The police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are therefore going to step up their fight against trafficking in human beings. During the General Political Reviews, your Chamber adopted a motion to invest an additional 10 million in dealing with trafficking in human beings within the Department of Aliens Police, Identification and Trafficking in Human Beings, the AVIM. Municipalities also receive more support. The plan of action is now in place. The VNG provides so-called handles for municipalities, with a framework that the policy against trafficking in human beings must comply with. Together, these actions should help to ensure that the perpetrators of trafficking in human beings can no longer escape their punishment. For victims of multi-problems who have fallen into the hands of traffickers, we have now provided specialist care in five municipalities. For this extra quattable group which so far is often not a suitable shelter available. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to prostitution. Mr Van der Staaij asked me about the state of play regarding the legislative proposal on sex work. This is currently for consultation. This bill establishes a legal, uniform licensing requirement for all sex business prostitutes and operators. The same rules will apply in all municipalities. Customers using illegal prostitution are no longer free. The same applies to those who make illegal prostitution possible for profit purposes. The consultation round ends on 15 December. It is my intention to send the legislative proposal to the Council of State as soon as possible as soon as possible. Because with this bill, we're contributing to a safer prostitution business. A nationwide coverage network of exit programmes has been established with the "Outluitprogramma " (RUPS III) Prostitutes III (RUPS III). Furthermore, in 2020 there will be an ombud function or complaint counter for sex workers, and an alert system for sex workers to warn each other of violent customers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u486	It's a good thing the Secretary of State outlines the progress of the bill we discussed earlier. In view of this very long history, will it also see to it that the next steps are speeded up as much as possible? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u487	I can assure Mr Van der Staaij that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u488	I understand the Secretary of State is ready. Still, a question about migration. In my contribution, I asked a question about the closed setting of registration centres in Europe. The Secretary of State says that we should proceed to a controlled or closed setting to quickly determine whether someone is wealthy or less likely. I know that there are differences of opinion in Europe. My question in the first term was whether the Secretary of State sees a role for himself to see whether, in line with Malta, Malta is not satisfied by the Secretary of State, so you have to come to Malta-plus, not to form a coalition of the willing, with regard to Greece and Italy, in order to arrive at a first decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u489	The cabinet focuses on structural European solutions. Again, I do not see this as a structural European solution. It depends. In December we will have another JHA Council and perhaps the documents will be quite different and can be seen as a structural solution in Europe that is supported by a very large part of the Member States. But we'll see. That is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u490	I understand. The Secretary of State has said that before. If you take them off the boats and bring them directly to the Member States in the context of redistribution, you have no selection at the gate. But my question was correct as to whether the Secretary of State and the Malta Group would not insist on forming a leading group. I believe that there are already seven or eight countries and they are becoming more and more. Maybe we can do a first screening when they get off those boats. The second question is whether the Netherlands will then be willing to pay a share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u491	I'm repeating myself. Those arriving on land are to be kept in the border procedure. It's just a question of whether that's gonna happen. At the moment, France, Germany, Italy, Malta, Portugal, Ireland and Luxembourg have said that we want to cooperate, and I have to say that Ireland has set a quota for itself, not an unlimited number. The current situation is not one of which we in the Netherlands, as a cabinet, say that this is a structural solution. That's all I can make of it right now. But again, on 2 December there will be another JHA Council. There may well be a fantastic solution which we say is structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u492	Finally. The Secretary of State has moved on to the last conversation that had taken place at lunchtime. If there is another separate consultation at the JHA Council, is the Secretary of State prepared to take office, precisely in order to press for a first selection to be made at the gate, at the external borders of Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u493	At the moment, I will be joining the JHA Council on 2 December, when this is discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u494	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I shall suspend the sitting until 7:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u495	We will continue with the discussion of the Justice and Security budget. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u496	Mr. Chairman. Normally, you thank the Minister for answering the questions, but I'm not gonna do that. The Minister began with a long introduction in which the subject of bullying was raised rather than the repeated cry of the four police unions this morning. Then the minister turned around to say that he had spoken with the chief of police, the unions and the mayors, suggesting that they agree with his policy and denying that they are faced with a fact: the limited police capacity. Then came the defense I'm not going over that, but then come up with a separate team, which even demands, following the murder of attorney Wiersum. The bottom line was hiding behind the budgetary rules. For the first time, as a Chamber, we heard the demand for structural money for the police as an answer that this can only be done in the spring. Mr. Chairman. I thought it was shocking. Such a minister would give you a week's work at Bureau Burgwallen, but without support and without knowing whether your colleague is still here tomorrow, or whether he or she has succumbed under the pressure of work and is sick at home. Or as an agent told me: "I'm on more than 300 leave hours, but I already know that I can't take leave on Christmas and the New Year's Eve. By 2020, all engagements were withdrawn because of the many events, including the song festival. Mr. Chairman. Who can or wants to work like this? Cops never give up, but now they and masse say they're down below crepe strength. Not through the ice, but under the crepe strength. The absenteeism is unprecedented. That is what we, the politicians, are responsible for. We have to solve that, too. As long as my party doesn't have 76 seats, I have to appeal to the Minister for that. That's what I did with the question: what tasks are going to be taken off? Answer: no tasks will go off. I wonder whether the Minister will continue to do so until the union ultimatum expires on 1 January 2020. Mr. Chairman. I asked for structural money for the police. That's not gonna happen, except for 25 million for vice detectives and the Alien Police, Identification and Trafficking. I asked for appreciation for the police officers. In that context, I asked for two things. Firstly, the purchase of long-term PTSS files, which were clear that the agents would no longer return to the workplace. I didn't get an answer to that, except the killer that PTSS is a terrible disease. Secondly, I asked the Minister to bring the police officers under the workings of the Veterans Act, as the much-needed knowledge, skills and expertise are already clearly regulated. I have motivated that extensively, but the answer was unfortunately: "There is currently no reason to bring police officers under the Veterans' Act. Then my question is: when? In advance of that, I will file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that police officers at risk for their own lives are ensuring safety in the Netherlands, with their work becoming increasingly difficult due to the increasing social threat and workload;]] [[considers that they are entitled to comparable care and rights as laid down for the military in the Veterans Act;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Veterans Act in such a way that police officers are also covered by that Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u497	Mr. Chairman. Then the inclusion in the Constitution of the right to security. The Constitution lays down the fundamental rights of citizens. It is therefore an important law, the highest in this country. The Minister states that the existence of the State already implies security concerns, but the Minister ignores the fact that the inclusion of certain rights in the Constitution also indicates how important we as a society consider these rights to be. If you consider that the right to privacy and even the right to cultural development and leisure are in the Constitution, but the right to security is not, the Minister's reasoning is at least half-hearted. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, since the 18th century, there has been a duty of public concern as regards the security of its citizens, but that it is not laid down in the Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to include the right to security in the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u498	Mr. Chairman. I closed my first term yesterday with two mantras, which I repeat here again. First of all... The PVV believes that there is a structural need for more money for the police. Second. The PVV believes that there should be a structural undermining fund. That is why I have tabled my motion on a structural undermining fund (24077, No. 436), which was co-signed by Mr Bisschop, Mr Krol, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik, who also wanted to vote on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u499	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u500	Thank you, Mr President. In the first term, I addressed an acute problem, namely the question of the Pakistani clergyman who once again expressed a fatwa against Mr Wilders. One moment, please. I'll just grab it. That fatwa was followed. Fortunately, the unsub, who had travelled from Pakistan to the Netherlands to slit Geert Wilders' throat, was convicted of killing Geert Wilders. Mr. Chairman. Just now, today, just, on Twitter, this same Pakistani clergyman is being tagged. A new terrorist writes the following on Twitter in response to the second fatwa of that Pakistani clergyman. I quote the English tweet, which I will translate immediately afterwards. Ahmed Hasan says: "My companies have reached netherlands, and are looking for your behead." Not so pretty English, but he writes that. "Save yourself as you can." Only this is the way to teach the lesson to such a dogs, as you. We love our Prophet MUHAMMAD (...), and can behead anyone for him. In other words, Ahmed Hasan says: "My friends and I have reached the Netherlands." We're gonna find you and cut your head off, Geert Wilders. Try to save yourself while you can. This is the only way to teach you a lesson, dog you are. We love our prophet and want to decapitate everyone for our prophet. Mr. Chairman. So we now know that these kind of guys, these kinds of terrorists, are not bluffing, but that they are doing the deed and that they are actually coming to the Netherlands and really want to kill. The safety of Mr Wilders is therefore acutely at stake, even more so than usual. It's even on Twitter now. What are you gonna do about it? Because this is an acute threat. I'd like to hear your response again. Mr. Chairman. Today De Telegraaf published an article about Jonathan M. That article shows exactly why, unfortunately, my statement that the entire criminal justice chain, which I described as non-functional in the first term, is correct. That article describes it all well. That Jonathan M. has been convicted of multiple rapes and extremely violent rape of a young girl. For this he only received 157 days in the juvenile detention. He could've been tried. He could've been in prison for a long time. That didn't happen. And then again, in the past period, he raped several girls and younger women very seriously. And that is what is wrong with our rule of law. The button really needs to be turned on at this ministry. The punishments must be much higher. We must get rid of the belief that life-threatening sex offenders or other perpetrators of serious violence are actually sick and can therefore be treated better. Society must be protected as much as possible. The only way to do this is to lock up these life-threatening monsters for a very long, preferably life-long period. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the PVV has been warning of the TBS system for years;]] [[Considering that, among others, a leading forensic psychiatrist, who has studied more than 2,000 TBs for 30 years, concludes that the TBs system is failing and that many hundreds of TBs do not belong in the clinics;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the TBs and open prisons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u501	In addition, we are dealing with packs, we have seen that again today. Packs of so-called "bon collars', groups of young people who do not really belong here, often so young people with a migration background. Always as a group, what cowardice! They're gonna wait for someone and they're gonna chop somebody up like that. They're kicking on the head and pounding and roaring. Their victims they choose carefully, often Dutch children, who do belong here. The Netherlands is ours, but the street is now theirs. This is violent racism, in which native young people are beaten up by immigrant scum. I wonder, where is the consternation now? Where is the Prime Minister now to express his disgust at this? Where's the public service now? I ask the Minister to deal with this problem in his term. I ask him to come up with social legislation and measures soon to make sure that the room for manoeuvre of these groups is severely restricted in our streets, parks, schoolyards, in our public space. Set up curfews, forbidden, restrained, think of something else! Pick them up! Throw them in jail for a long time! And if they have a double passport, throw them out of the country! Then there is my final motion, on another subject that I spoke about in the first term. I shall submit this together with Mr Wilders. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court of Justice of the European Union has decided that products originating in Judea and Samaria are no longer allowed to be labelled as originating in Israel;]] [[whereas this decision applies in all EU countries, as well as in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Jewish State has not occupied Israel, Judea and Samaria, but has just liberated them;]] [[Whereas Judea and Samaria are an integral part of the Jewish State of Israel and therefore products from those territories are indeed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[calls on the Government to disregard this ruling of the anti-Semitic Court of Justice of the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u502	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV is pleased to see that the CDA has finally repented and, like the PVV, believes that we should simply put the people who do not belong here on the plane back to the country of origin. Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA said today, as the PVV said yesterday, literally in her interruption on her own Minister Grapperhaus: just put them back on the plane immediately. That is why we are tabling the next motion. The PVV is curious whether the CDA only has a big mouth or dares to take action and will support the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas ISIS terrorists were put on a plane to the Netherlands by Turkey without any problems and were picked up by the Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport;]] [[Whereas, in view of the absence of appropriate documents or a lack of cooperation from the countries of origin, the Government indicates that illegal immigrants and harassing asylum seekers cannot be expelled from the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to simply place asylum seekers, illegal immigrants and other foreigners we do not want here on the plane to the country of origin.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u504	To those who are still listening and think that was the input I told the Minister of Justice, I say that is incorrect. I said that this should be the case with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u505	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u506	Less firm words again. Then there are the new groups of scavengers, who come from Moldova to the Netherlands every week for the benefits and the free reception. I don't know if you watched News hours yesterday, but those kind of figures are really gonna boil my blood. A bunch of fuzzy Moldovans who come here to take advantage of what this Secretary of State offers them all. Unbelievable! While our own people don't get a gift from this government. That is why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are weekly buses full of lucky seekers from Moldova coming to the Netherlands to apply for asylum;]] [[whereas Moldova is a safe country;]] [[Calls on the Government to add Moldova to the national list of safe countries of origin;]] [[also invites the government to put all Moldovans currently in the reception/procedure on tour buses and to return linea recta to Moldova,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u507	The PVV believes that it is too crazy for words that asylum seekers who often consciously frustrate the situation are compensated by the government for the slow handling of their asylum applications. This year it will cost us 5 million and next year it will cost us 17 million euros. The PVV does not accept this mess. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Immigration and Naturalization Service will spend tens of millions of euros on periodic penalty payments to asylum seekers in the coming years to compensate for slow asylum procedures;]] [[Whereas many asylum seekers abuse this system by providing as little useful information as possible and prolonging their procedure as long as possible so that they can claim a bag of Dutch tax money;]] [[calls on the government to stop compensating asylum seekers by not paying any more periodic penalty payments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u508	Finally, the PVV is tired of the fact that criminal and troublesome asylum seekers are being held over by the government and the coalition parties with all sorts of excuses and that they can just stay in the Netherlands, while all these bastards need to be arrested, imprisoned and expelled. That's why the next motion, especially for the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to apprehend harassing and criminal asylum seekers and to hold them for as long as possible until they can be deported,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u509	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u510	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u511	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was quite the debate. In fact, there was little opposition needed to show the three members sitting here on behalf of the cabinet to the Netherlands what kind of gang it is. That we are in a transitional phase from democracy to post-democracy, in which we hang with our Dutch, political and administrative necks in the noose of international treaties. Our Secretary of State is refused in Morocco and Erdogan simply puts jihadists and their children on a plane to the Netherlands. And we say, yes, but we don't send them back, because it takes a laissez-passer. Well, well, that scares them internationally! Pooh, the Netherlands is his man! Not! Mr President, it is terrible. The status of this country is terrible. If you've been listening to this for two days, and all the way back from the government, you think... Imagine if you had predicted this ten years ago, everyone would have said you were crazy. The state in which we are currently legally and, above all, in terms of security: we are destroying our security on a daily basis. Not us as PVV, but our leaders, namely the cabinet and the coalition parties. It's a flywheel that's gonna turn up and we're gonna get more jihadists at home. Today a number of Belgians escaped from Al-Hol, I believe. They will soon be able to cross our border again after serving a mockery sentence in Belgium. We have the criminalisation for staying in terrorist territory. Soon parts of the Netherlands will become a terrorist area. The Minister of Justice and Security found this a very interesting thought of me a few weeks ago, but the rest of the Chamber laughed at me when I said it. Soon parts of the Netherlands will become a terrorist area and then we will have to criminalise the residence there. So much for the influence of Islam. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, in conclusion after this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that jihadists can still come to the Netherlands with a Dutch passport and that at least 500 jihadists are already present in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, after their possible punishment, jihadists return to society]] [[to land and present a permanent major danger to safety;]] [[Whereas double passport criminals also pose a threat to the security of many;]] [[calls on the Government to extradite and denaturalise jihadists after serving their sentence if they are in possession of Dutch nationality;]] [[calls on the Government also to denaturalise and expel criminals with a double passport after serving their sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u512	The second and final motion of the PVV today. Not the second one in total, but the last one for us. It's a long one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that children and women, including the mother of the children, have reached Ankara from the former IS Caliphate;]] [[noting that Turkish President Erdogan shirted the Dutch government by putting these jihad women and children on a plane to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas international conventions should not threaten Dutch security;]] [[whereas this is happening now;]] [[Whereas Dutch security is threatened by the return of jihadists and their children;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow any jihadist, man or woman, and their children, if any, to be admitted on Dutch soil and to denounce the international conventions which prevent this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u513	Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the persistent situation in the Netherlands about harassing and criminal asylum seekers and persecuted asylum seekers who do not want to leave. As far as the VVD is concerned, this shows that our asylum system is failing. We must ensure that the agreements we make with each other to allow people to leave for whom the asylum system and reception in the Netherlands is not meant to work in this way. About that, about the rural provision of foreigners, I asked questions. I'd like to make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pilot national provision is intended for foreigners without a right of residence who can be accommodated under the condition that they cooperate in return, unless it appears that they are nevertheless eligible for a residence permit;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the Chamber informed in the interim of the progress of the pilot-lvvvs and the programme per municipality, at least on the number of fixed solutions found, including the number of (scheduled) departures from the Netherlands, the type of cases and the experiences with the case transfer;]] [[calls on the Government also to address the partners and to report to the Court on any breach of the agreements in the covenants, including the possible financial consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u514	We talked about leaving and returning. I am pleased that the Secretary of State intends to look up the boundaries of making it more possible to return. But I also said that in the end we should not put all our energy into letting people leave here who are wrong. We must ensure that these people do not come here at all. As Europe, we cannot afford an unlimited flow of migration to our continent. The VVD has said that in the various ministries everyone must be involved here and nowhere else. We need migration agreements that will stop irregular migration. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government Agreement agreed that the Cabinet should use migration agreements with third countries to reduce both irregular migration and the withdrawal of out-of-court nationals;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet indicates that this is a complex and comprehensive task for several ministries;]] [[calls on the Government to send the Chamber a smart overview of both actions undertaken and planned by the Ministries of JenV, BHOS and BZ to implement the government agreement agreements on migration agreements, as well as the number of applications of the principle of more for more and less for less,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Grothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u515	Finally, I would like to thank Minister Grapperhaus and Minister Dekker for their response to the initiative paper I submitted. I am glad that there will be an even more extensive response. In the short term, I expect the letter about the National Expertise Centre for Honor-related Violence, because it is important that the police can really act actively, now that we see that 8% of the murder and manslaughter cases in the Netherlands are now related to honor-related violence. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for a number of commitments. It will send a letter on the legal obstacles to the withdrawal of the residence permit if people have shown criminal behaviour. I am also curious about her letter in which she will address the question of whether we cannot put people in detention more often when there is a view of expulsion and there is a risk of withdrawal from supervision, based on patterns. I'm glad you're getting a letter about that. I'll wait for that letter with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u516	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, also on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u517	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. The Minister for Justice and Security has very disappointingly called it that Turkey has put two IS women on the plane to the Netherlands, even though he has tried everything to change his Turkish colleague's mind. This means that the situation is as follows: Morocco does not take its own nationals back, Turkey transports undocumented foreigners and the Netherlands may become more unsafe. I would like to hear from the Minister what concrete follow-up we can take to keep our country safe. Of course we are a rule of law, of course we are not going to take an example of how Erdogan deals with international agreements, but we must protect our country. So I would like to hear concrete follow-up from the Minister responsible for combating terrorism. Because that's what this is all about. I would also like to know whether it is true that if the prosecution had not started a case against the woman who currently has only one nationality, namely the Moroccan, she could have been deported immediately or at least the procedure could have been initiated instead of waiting for her trial and perhaps her detention here. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are also thinking. Two weeks ago, we had a debate here on how to prevent jihadists from returning. In doing so, I have indicated that the talks with Iraq are extremely important to us and that we, as a VVD, believe that, because the local trial is so important, we should conduct these talks pragmatically, and also that we should be able to accept it if Iraqis stick to their own legal system. That is how important we consider local trial to be. I have made other points there as well. In relation to time, I read it in the form of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cabinet's starting point is that the detection and prosecution of international crimes should take place as far as possible in the country where the crimes were committed;]] [[whereas the Dutch themselves are responsible for their behaviour abroad and, if they do not respect the laws and regulations in another country, they can expect that to have consequences;]] [[believes that recognised Dutch outbound travellers should not be escorted back to the Netherlands or facilitated, but should be tried locally;]] [[invites the Government, if alleged extravagants of Dutch nationality report to a Dutch diplomatic post abroad, to have the diplomatic post contact the local authorities, where possible hand over the suspects to them and inform our diplomatic posts about this decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u518	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the repeal of the Dutch Federation in the interests of national security is intended to prevent the return of extravagants;]] [[noting that this law states that it is difficult to wait for the Netherlands to withdraw from the Netherlands until the person concerned has returned and has been prosecuted and sentenced in criminal matters, given the immediate threat to national security;]] [[noting that the purpose of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is to exclude a person from Dutch citizenship with all rights and obligations;]] [[Whereas that law provides that the importance of preventing return in order to protect national security must prevail over the importance of detection, prosecution, trial and custodial sentences in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Justice and Security has repeatedly indicated that, despite the law, there are obstacles to the withdrawal of foreign nationals from the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to bring forward, as a matter of urgency, a legislative amendment that removes the bottlenecks and obstacles encountered to the withdrawal of recognised Dutch travellers from the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u519	I did so very quickly, because I have a few other points that I would also like to mention. It's about undermining. We have had an extensive response to this, and thank you for that, but there are a few questions that remain open. However, I do not think it was the last time we talked about tackling undermining. I would like to dwell on the sharing of information. The Minister replied, but I am not sure. For now, I have two specific motions on the possibility of more information sharing. Let me say in advance that I will return to this subject with my own proposals from the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SMEs can play an important role in the fight against organised crime and undermining through information exchange;]] [[Whereas legislation is currently in the process of regulating the more frequent exchange of information;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the possibility of carrying out pilot projects at present with the exchange of information by SMEs to SMEs and by SMEs to public authorities, in order to assist SMEs in the fight against organised and undermining crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u520	My colleague, Mr Aartsen, tabled this motion yesterday to the EZK budget. The rulers have denied the motion and said that it belongs to Justice and Security. I hope and trust that the motion will be welcomed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sharing of data between relevant bodies can contribute to tackling undermining;]] [[Considering that notaries also serve a public interest to monitor the integrity of the legal process by identifying suspects who may indicate fraud and money laundering;]] [[noting that they do not have sufficient powers to fully fulfil this role;]] [[calls on the Government, after its own investigation, to consider the desirability of tackling undermining crime and the need for the following instruments:]] [[be able to search for natural persons in the Trade Register;]] [[the possibility to share more data within the notary, for example through a digital bulletin board to warn a fellow notary about a client with malicious intentions;]] [[improving access to more data from the Tax Administration and the Land Registry;]] [[and provide for these instruments to the extent necessary to address undermining,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u521	Okay, let's go a little further. I have also heard all the political groups and the Minister say in detail that the approach to undermining is a long-term approach. You have to deal with it in its entirety, an official word for the entire model of income, from prevention to repression, to be undermined. We can't think we're out of it with one cabinet term or a few years. This is a long-term thing. I have also heard all the groups say that they hope that structural money will be released in the spring note. We know this minister is going to stand for that. I'd like to support that with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that undermining crime poses a major threat to the safety of Dutch citizens;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Cabinet has occasionally invested 110 million in the fight against undermining crime,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands will benefit from a stable and future-proof financing of the fight against crime that can move forward with the expected development;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how to secure and strengthen the fight against undermining crime for the longer term for the budget treatment of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u522	Mr. Chairman. I still have a lot of points, but I limit myself to one final point, also because I have almost no breath left. Several questions have been asked about it and this debate also started with it: the horrible images we have seen of what happened in Gorcum, where a group like mad hyenas has gone off on a victim. I'd like to ask the Minister a few questions about that. He's already said a few things about it, but I just read online that the victim couldn't file a report and has to come back next week. I would like to know whether this is the case and whether we can no longer do so. I would also very much like to know whether the victim or several victims will also receive help and support. I have also understood that people are afraid to press charges, which I can imagine very well, because they are afraid to run into those perpetrators again. I would like to reassure you that we are paying attention to this and that we understand that young victims are terrified to report it, if they know that they may encounter these guests the next day. I would like a specific response to the question of what we can do about it. We will undoubtedly be discussing it, but I would also like the ministers to contact Gorcum, to ask if any support is needed. It must not be the case that there is a situation like that in Beverwijk, about which I asked questions earlier with Mr Van Wijngaarden. We know that there have been youth gangs out there for months making things unsafe, terrorizing people, beating up children, for sport. It's a sport and it's terrifying. We've drawn attention to that in Beverwijk. I don't want it to happen that we're gonna have to call attention to Gorcum again in a few months, so please have a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u523	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u524	Very briefly. These are his very legitimate questions from Mrs Yeşilgöz. I'm also curious about the answers. Did I hear right that she was wondering if it was true that the victim couldn't file a report and had to come back later? Isn't this jigsaw and jab? This is the order of the day with the state of the police. I'm not gonna do it this time. I'm not gonna do it. I'm not gonna do it. This isn't something we can be surprised about, is it? What are we going to do about this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u525	I understand this question very well. At the same time, I also understand that the police are not always ready to record all the declarations. But this is so urgent. We've all seen that footage. We've been physically sick of it, too, and we thought, "You can't imagine this if this happens to you or your child." On such serious matters, I would like to reassure the Minister that a direct declaration can be made and if it turns out that this is not the case, what we can do about it together. With all due respect, this is something other than a bike theft, which I imagine you'll have to wait a few days for. Although I understand the thrust of the question, I think this is so urgent that I would like confirmation from the Minister that this declaration can be recorded quickly, in a safe way, and that the victims also feel safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u526	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first place, the approach to undermining calls for structural resources. We have had an extensive exchange of views with this Minister, but I would like to repeat this once again with the Minister of Justice and Security. It calls for a structural approach, but above all it calls for cooperation between services, youth aid and municipalities. It calls for information exchange. We are therefore pleased that the Minister has responded positively to our proposal to create an anti-undermining coordinator. In order to encourage the Minister a little more, I also have a motion for a resolution on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the successful approach to undermining requires good cooperation from all concerned, such as police, justice, probation, municipalities and youth assistance;]] [[Whereas an undermining coordinator may, inter alia, contribute to policy-making and implementation, establish interconnections and provide for threat analyses;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to set up an undermining coordinator, for example as a Directorate-General at the Ministry of Justice and Security, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u528	Mr. Chairman. We also had an extensive exchange of views today on the need for the police. The water is on their lips. There are enormous capacity problems. This also calls for structural measures, but it also calls for choices to be made now. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that police unions are calling the alarm clock because the pressure of work runs out and the police, as they say, are no longer able to guarantee citizens' safety;]] [[Considering that the police unions have made several proposals to relieve the burden on police officers, including non-collection of reports of confused persons, reduction of administrative pressure and deployment of operational experts for police tasks;]] [[points out the urgent need to make strong choices regarding police tasks and priorities;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a comprehensive written response to the proposals of the police unions before the ceremony, and to involve the executives of VWS, such as ggz and youth care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berge, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u529	Mr. Chairman. I'm looking at the clock, so I'll read the next motion straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Animal Protection Inspectorate is faced with a doubling of the number of animal neglect files, while the number of inspectors has remained the same;]] [[Whereas the doubling results from a debt-to-GDP ratio in accordance with agreements.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[Considering that the extension of the subsidy granted under the new arrangements was already committed at the end of 2018;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the agreement between the Ministries of Justice and Security and LNV on the extension of the Member's grant and to notify it by 15 December next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berge, Mr Van Dam, Mr Groothuizen and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u530	I'll do the next motion in one go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that tackling sexual violence is strongly stimulated by the additional investment resources for the sex police;]] [[Whereas this investment will increase the number of cases of sex committed by the Centres of Sexual Violence, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice and, in order to avoid stagnation, it will be necessary to strengthen the moral approach;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how to prevent a stagnation in the conduct of sex cases by providing sufficient capacity at the Centres of Sexual Violence, the Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u531	And then I have three seconds left!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u532	You spoke very quickly, Mr. Van den Berge! No one understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u533	It's being distributed, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u534	She's being distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u535	In my opinion, the rules only state that I must read to her, and that has just been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u536	Yeah, that's right. You did that very quickly. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u537	I think I'm getting some help clarifying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u538	I think so, too. Mrs. Helder is going to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u539	Well, I'd almost say read the motion again! But... are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u540	I'm okay! I had to hurry, but I did it. And you're about to get her in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u541	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. It's okay. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u542	Mr. Chairman. I'm not doing that to my colleague, I must say! Thanks to the rulers. I will, of course, focus on the Secretary of State in my second term. I shall begin with the matter of Morocco. That was quite a curious debate, I must say. We have now put written questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because the Secretary of State has referred us to them. So that's what we'll do. Then about the execution keys. Then the execution test. I'm really glad we got the pieces. I haven't read them all yet, so we're not going to talk about it in detail, but I did see that before the case-law Council concludes that the lead times are increasing and that capacity at the IND is a matter of concern. That is one of the reasons why we would like to support the motion on legal aid which Mr Jasper van Dijk is about to table. Whatever additional burden the IND is going to impose is the issue of residence permits. They will not be tested after five years, but after three years. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State admits that its proposed legislative amendment to reduce the duration of temporary residence permits from five to three years is accompanied by additional workload for the IND and that additional staff will be required to do so;]] [[Whereas, under the current rules, a temporary residence permit may be withdrawn even if the security situation in the country of origin changes and this standard test after three years is a form of unnecessary bureaucracy;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from submitting a legislative proposal to shorten the temporary residence permit from five to three years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u543	In the last minute of my speaking time, I can do something special, because I have the right to table a motion co-signed by Mrs Becker of the VVD. In the field of asylum and migration, it is not very common for GroenLinks and the VVD to table a joint motion. I can also tell you how that happened. It is about dealing with trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u544	Think of your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u545	No matter how you feel about asylum and migration, we both think you have to do everything out of the closet to fight against human mugs. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tackling trafficking in human beings is an essential pillar of Dutch policy on asylum and migration;]] [[noting that smugglers still manage to bring migrants into the Netherlands unnoticed and illegally or to transport them elsewhere through the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to make the implementation practice of combating smuggling more effective, for example by stricter checks on arrivals at registration centres, increasing checks on Mobile Surveillance Security or checking on refrigerated vehicles, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u546	A brief comment. Mr Van Ojik has explained in detail why he is tabling a motion together with the VVD, but we do not need that, because the whole world already knows that the Rutte cabinet, and therefore also the VVD, is carrying out a massive Green Link policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u547	But I think Mr Van Ojik will be complimented on that. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u548	Mr President, you challenge me. I do not know whether I take this as a compliment, but it is a fact that our groups find each other in the fight against human trafficking. I would still think that the PVV can only be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u549	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u550	What a bunch of corny catheads in the house. Mr. Chairman. It was a nice debate about an important budget. It is always interesting that it is little about money, except the police and undermining, and more about things that are very close to our hearts: victims, terrorism, trafficking in human beings, all kinds of issues. It is always a nice debate, I think, an all-round debate on Justice and Security. We have discussed, among other things, the injury victims. We have submitted a note. Mr Van Nispen will come back to that in a moment, because we really want to see movement in that. We want victims to be given more justice when they are injured and when insurers leave people in the cold every time. We also talked about privacy protection. There has indeed been a WODC investigation, but we are concerned about the privacy of victims, especially in cold cases in which even journalists are involved, so that a lot of personal information about someone can suddenly be on the street. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of privacy protection;]] [[Considering that, on the basis of the 2015 WODC investigation on privacy and victims, steps have definitely been taken to better protect the privacy of victims in the criminal proceedings;]] [[Whereas questions still arise concerning the privacy protection of victims and survivors in criminal investigations and criminal proceedings;]] [[noting that the Personal Data Authority is the preferred body to monitor compliance with legal rules for the protection of personal data;]] [[Calls on the Authority to investigate Personal Data and to report on the privacy protection of victims and survivors in criminal investigations and criminal proceedings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u551	It's all very nice when the Minister would say "brilliant," but actually I don't need his appreciation strictly, because it's a call to the Personal Data Authority. I hear Mr Verhoeven shouting: that is not possible! I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u552	Don't respond to Mr Verhoeven!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u553	Our laws and regulations state that, at the request of the Chamber, the authority can decide on something. I've been looking into that. I also happen to know that she is very willing to do so. We talked about undermining. We are, of course, very impatient, just as my colleague from the VVD pointed out when it comes to space to give things back to society and to the proper application of the information sharing. So we remain very impatient, but we will also follow very critically what is happening in that. We've spoken out about drugs. We have received a positive response to the model APV. Thanks for that! We are not yet entirely satisfied with the answers on the sale to minors. Again, it turns out that the person selling to minors is back on the street within no time. I would like to hear from the Minister that he is going to consult with the Public Prosecutor's Office anyway to discuss this topical issue. What's going on here? It really seems to be contrary to what we here as a Chamber had invented with each other. I would also ask him to raise the penalty measurement guidelines. It is not a separate increase in penalties, and it has surprised us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u554	I just wanted to say it anyway. I think it is excellent that Mrs Van Toorenburg raises the issue, but we are talking about an independent supervisor. Well, then it's a "spoken" out of "spoken" motion. I'd like to take a look at that, too. I find it difficult to talk to an independent supervisor through politics, but then I think: the CDA never has any extra money left for this supervisor, and then ask for all kinds of extra tasks! Doesn't Mrs Van Toorenburg think that's a bit of a wring?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u555	I'm a little surprised at this question. I just wanted to make a joke: that we're finally gonna find D66 by our side, because this is about privacy protection. And suddenly I get a critical question about that! I'm just flabbergasted, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u556	The time for jokes is over. This is a serious point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u557	You argued with Mrs Yeşilgöz, you argued with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u558	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u559	No, there isn't. And now with Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u560	I almost forgot the question, but fortunately the subject is too important to really forget it. Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, checked the laws and regulations relating to the establishment of the Personal Data Authority. I have checked whether I am not asking for more here than I should be doing as a Member of Parliament. And it's not. As a parliament, we can ask the authority to consider something. And that's exactly what I'm doing. And of course I thought it was a bit brutal to call that out here in the Chamber without having spoken with them together with Victim Help The Netherlands about whether they see a possibility to do so. And they see this as an important function, because they have also taken note of agreements concluded between the Public Prosecutor and the police without referring to the victims. And that's why it's so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u561	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u562	I appreciate this caution in the process towards the independent supervisor. I would appreciate it if the CDA would look in the future at the possibilities of making extra money available to the supervisor where necessary, because they are getting more and more tasks on their plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u563	That is exactly what we are doing: where necessary, we will ensure that extra money is made available. I'll take a closer look. I asked if it was true that you should not look behind the curtain in the port of Rotterdam with a truck driving away. Turns out that's privacy, too. I can't imagine. Actually, I'd like to know a little bit more about that liaison officer. Mrs Kuik and I had a brief debate on this yesterday. There's a policeman there, yes, but not someone from the D.A.'s office. I want to know whether that could not be an enrichment, because that is what they do in Italy too. We talked about asylum. I'm glad the Secretary of State has promised us that she's going to look very creatively at how you can make sure that people really come back and that she doesn't waste any resources in her research. I'm very attached to that. Administratively, civilly, criminally: we are going to hear it and are very curious. Finally, I have a Lampedusamotia. This Lampedusamotia is a result of a work visit we were allowed to make last weekend in Italy. We have seen that there are a lot of wreckage in the water and on the quays. People are really being burdened with this and there has to be a solution to this. So we have a Lampedusamotie with a Lampedus coalition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that boats with which migrants cross the Mediterranean are left behind as wrecks in the water, on beaches and on quays;]] [[noting that local communities are struggling with their removal;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to work to ensure that, where necessary, support is provided to local communities to clean up abandoned and/or seized wrecks and to recover their costs from smugglers wherever possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Van Wijngaarden, Groothuizen, Van Ojik, Jasper van Dijk and Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u564	Then you can see why it was such a great job visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u565	Yeah, I hear it. Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u566	Mr. Chairman. I had prepared myself for two minutes of speaking time and therefore took a fast course at GroenLinks, but I see that it is seven minutes, so that is a huge profit. This also gives me the opportunity not only to thank the rulers for all the answers they have given. We all know that behind the scenes in this building there has been an army of civil servants, and I understand until 2:30 p.m. tonight. In any case, I would also like to thank them very much for all their efforts to enable us to do our job. I have three motions, which are in line with my input in the first instance. The first motion is what I call the squeak and squeak motion. This concerns my desire to have a longer-term view of the criminal justice chain, to see whether it is well funded and secured in the light of the development of tasks. In the meantime, I found that the General Political Reviews in the First Chamber adopted a Rosenmöller motion, supported by a very large number of parties, which also calls for an investigation into the financing and safeguarding of the rule of law. I don't think I'd like to burden the Ministry with two investigations, but in line with that Rosenmöller motion, I drafted this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Rosenmöller cum suis motion was recently adopted in the First Chamber, requesting the government to carry out an investigation into the financing of the rule of law;]] [[Whereas, in line with this motion, the criminal justice chain will benefit from stable and future-proof funding that can contribute to the expected development of tasks in the criminal justice chain in relation to societal developments;]] [[noting that the welcome investments currently being made cannot prevent it from squeaking and cracking in almost all organisations in the criminal justice chain;]] [[calls on the government, as the first reconnaissance of the investigation requested by the Rosenmöller motion, to inform the Chamber, for the budget treatment 2021, on a broad basis, how the functioning of the criminal justice chain can be secured and strengthened until 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam, Grootehuizen, Van der Graaf and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u567	Then I have a motion which, at least for me, has a bit of a democratic charge of principle. It's about writing out the police chapter in the Justice and Security budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the police (Chapter 31) comprises almost half of the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security (JenV), but only one line is included therein;]] [[having regard to the opinions of the General Court of Auditors and the Council of State;]] [[Calls on the Government to divide the police chapter in the JenV 2021 budget into separate articles and to adapt the explanatory notes accordingly;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber by letter by April 2020 at the latest how it will implement this in the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Dam and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u568	Finally, a motion for a resolution on the boat drivers. We have talked a great deal today about the enormous pressure on our police, and not only on our police, but also on all kinds of other organisations in the judicial field. I think we should also show that we are watching and thinking along on how we can accommodate tasks that are currently in the police force in a different way. The attempt I make with this motion is extremely small in that context, but if you don't start somewhere, you won't get anywhere either. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the capacity of the police throughout the country is under very serious pressure;]] [[Whereas traffic enforcement tasks are confined in terms of location and nature to the tasks of special investigators (boa guards) dealing with viability;]] [[calls on the government, in close cooperation with the municipality of Utrecht, to consider whether a pilot can be experimented with the expansion of the tasks of boat drivers in the field of traffic enforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u569	This motion sees that boa... boa... are active in the realm of vitality, so they're surveilling on the street. They're allowed to sign still cars, but they're not driving around. Someone who drives a moped through a pedestrian zone, they don't like that either. I think it's worth looking into an experiment to see if anything can happen to it. Thank you. And thank you, Mr President, for your leadership of this budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u570	Oh, how kind, Mr. Van Dam, thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u571	Thank you. Today was a bit of a day when the police unions came up with this very intrusive cry, saying, among other things, 'We really need to be careful that people are not going to lose faith in the police and therefore also in the government, because that is really lurking. The problems are enormous. I do not blame the Minister for Justice and Security so much for not doing his best or for not having the right intentions, but that is not really good enough at the moment. The problems are too great for that. I think we should be honest about reducing capacity. We should not always tell them that extra money will be added, because it may be, but at the end of this period there will be fewer agents. We need to be honest about what can and cannot be done, and we need to do what is necessary, including making structural extra money available. My group has a number of motions that go along with this, and I would add one more motion concerning the number of police aspirants. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is targeting more aspirants for the police than initially intended;]] [[noting that there are many concerns at police academies and among police officers whether these numbers are going to be met;]] [[considers that it is of no benefit to anyone to have unrealistic expectations of future police capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber every six months whether the inflow rates for police aspirants are being reached and whether the number of expected graduates is being reached at the police academy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen and Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u572	Mr. Chairman. Crime must not facilitate wages and criminal behavior is also criminal. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas banks, insurers, notaries, brokers, trust offices and tax advisors are so-called gatekeepers of the financial system and should screen their clients and report unusual transactions;]] [[noting that these gatekeepers have so far failed to comply with the obligations of the Law on Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (Wwft);]] [[calls on the Government to strictly enforce the Wwft and to withdraw directly authorisations of legal persons and natural persons who knowingly and structurally fail to comply with the Wwft,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u573	Then injury. The motion has already been initiated by Mrs Van Toorenbrug, so I can read it to her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that too many injured victims are also victims of lengthy and difficult legal and financial procedures by the hands of insurers and intermediaries;]] [[Whereas the Code of Conduct on Injury Damage, the GBL, lays down rules that insurers should comply with but that non-compliance with those rules has no consequences;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the GBL is strengthened and enforced, and that sanctions are available for insurers and interests defenders who do not comply with the rules;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward a proposal to introduce legal non-hierarchical disciplinary law for the insurance sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u574	I also have a motion with Mrs Van der Graaf. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the case-law has for some time pursued socially effective case-law and has been piloted there, with almost always the elements of proximity, affordability and solution orientation playing an important role;]] [[noting that investigations show that socially accessible and accessible justice contributes to maintaining social peace;]] [[considers that the right should be accessible to everyone, in the vicinity, affordable, not too complicated and aimed at finding an appropriate solution to the (sometimes deeper) problem, where cooperation between the legal and social domain is important;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the judiciary, the legal profession, aid workers and municipalities on the mapping of scenarios for achieving the above-mentioned objectives in the coming years, to examine what is needed for this in the areas of laws and regulations, policy and budgetary, and to report to the Court in detail in a year's time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u575	Finally, legal aid, because that still bothers me very much. Yeah, I'm also getting messages from social attorneys saying, "What good, what good, what good, we've done some action and we've achieved something." And so it is. So once again, congratulations for that. But it did not go very well with this Minister and then I express myself very carefully. In fact, I have the feeling that the Minister does not think this is a bad measure, because he actually thinks that this was not necessary at all. For at least two years, he has defended this. It is also true, of course, that the report of the Van der Meer Committee has not yet begun. So the rate is now rising again, that's good, but it doesn't do justice to the distortion in the point allocation. That's what this motion is about. I saw the Minister shaking so violently that he is going to give Chamber this motion with enthusiasm. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that reasonable remuneration for social lawyers is important for ensuring legal assistance and that this is fundamental in our rule of law;]] [[Considering that in 2017, the Van der Meer Committee concluded that the fees for the granting of legal aid by legal aid providers are out of line with reality and that according to the scenario outlined by the Committee, EUR 154 million is required annually to remedy this situation;]] [[Whereas the additional 36.5 million for the years 2020 and 2021 is not a sustainable solution for legal aid providers;]] [[calls on the government to embrace this scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Committee as a starting point and to work as quickly as reasonably possible towards a reasonable remuneration and proper points assignment of social lawyers, starting with family law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kuik, Mr Krol, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van den Berge and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u576	I'm sorry I went so fast. Time's ticking out of here, and it went wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u577	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Of course, you've spent the whole afternoon and evening debating, so sometimes things go wrong. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, who is already standing by on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u578	We're still reasonably on schedule, aren't we, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u579	Sure. No problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u580	Legal aid. Thank you for sending the execution key. What I have been able to read so far is quite devastating: very critical of the plan to abolish legal aid. I ask the Secretary of State how this plan will free up capacity at the IND, as promised in the coalition agreement. I haven't found it yet. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, as a result of cuts, the waiting periods for asylum applications have increased significantly, resulting in periodic penalty payments of tens of millions of euro debt securities;]] [[believes that the IND should make every effort to get back on track;]] [[Whereas limiting legal aid will lead to additional work for the IND;]] [[calls on the Government not to restrict legal aid to asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u581	Then I have a motion on the safety men and the nuisance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the Netherlands should offer protection to refugees, but that people who are not entitled to asylum should return;]] [[Whereas part of the so-called "secure landlord' does not return and causes significant nuisance, including violence, intimidation and theft;]] [[noting the loss of support for asylum reception if this nuisance is not addressed;]] [[calls on the government to make haste with a separate and robust reception facility in which distressing asylum seekers are properly received so that the nuisance is minimised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kikken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u582	Mr. Chairman. Finally, Morocco and the possible visa measures. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some countries of origin do not participate sufficiently in the withdrawal of their nationals;]] [[Whereas the amended Visa Code allows for measures to be taken against non-returning countries;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, measures against senior citizens of countries of origin who do not cooperate sufficiently with the return of their nationals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Becker and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u583	Finally, Mr President. I too, like Mr Van Ojik, have put forward questions on why our esteemed Secretary of State was not welcome in Morocco. I addressed that question to the Foreign Minister, as she asked us to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u584	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u585	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thanks to the rulers for answering the many questions, including the answers to the questions we had in the mailbox this morning. Thanks also to the Minister of Justice for the commitment in that written reply to come forward with an analysis of those procedural and judgment agreements that I am somewhat concerned about. We seem to be working on that without a proper legal basis. My question to the Minister of Justice is when exactly we can expect that analysis from the cabinet. I would like to hear a response on that point. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first concerns the appointment of judges and members of the Court of Justice. Because I am looking at what is happening in Europe in a number of countries, especially in the middle and east of our continent, and I think that we should take a critical look at our own Law on the Judicial Organisation, to see if there are vulnerabilities in it that in a number of years, perhaps with another cabinet, things could happen to judges that we would not want. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Law on the Judicial Organisation (Law RO) contains a number of provisions conferring powers on the Minister with regard to the appointment, reappointment, suspension and/or dismissal of members of the Council for the case-law and members of the judicial board;]] [[noting that the Minister for Legal Protection wishes to restrict his role in the appointment procedure of members of the Council for the purposes of the case-law but does not wish to remove it entirely;]] [[noting that in his letter of 17 September 2019 the Minister for Legal Protection does not write about the legal status of judges;]] [[Whereas possible political influence on the legal position of members of the Council may be vulnerable to justice and to the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice from the Council of State on possible vulnerabilities in the RO Act with regard to the appointment, reappointment, suspension and/or dismissal of both members of the Council for the jurisdiction and appointment of the judges and to report to the Chamber before the summer recess of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u586	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of asylum and migration. I think everyone agrees that it's squeaking and cracking in the chain. One of the recommendations made by the Van Zwol Committee to solve this problem is to highlight complex issues and to follow them more closely. So it's really just about case management, ownership, where you recognise at an early stage: here might be a little bit more going on, and how can we prevent it from taking a very long time, with all the bad consequences of that, both for the lead times and for the people involved? Unfortunately, the Secretary of State takes over the recommendations of the Van Zwol Committee but in part. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Van Zwol Committee finds that complex cases give rise to more than average outliers in the duration of the procedure;]] [[Whereas a vigorous approach to complex cases can prevent lengthy procedures and distressing situations;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State only partially accepts the recommendation of the Van Zwol Committee to apply more intensive case management;]] [[calls on the government to:]] [[as soon as possible as the workload of the IND allows case management to be introduced in all complex cases;]] [[taking into account everyone's independent position in consultation with partners in the asylum chain, such as the case-law, to consider whether and how to introduce case management in complex cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u587	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u588	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, also on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u589	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, thanks also to the directors for their reply. Last night I was also allowed to participate in the Economic Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u590	Yeah, I followed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u591	It's been quite a week. Around two o'clock we were ready and we had over 60 motions on the counter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u592	67.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u593	67 motions, Chairman. I myself had four, all of them of course very interesting and decisive for the future of the Netherlands. Still, it was a little too much of a good thing. I even got it going with Mr Futselaar of the SP, a esteemed colleague, who appealed to me on the number of motions. I didn't agree with him, but I did think later: we did make incredible motions. We talk about that all the time. We say every week it should be less and each time we file six, seven or eight motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u594	So Mr Futselaar had a point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u595	Well, he had a point... He is a motion champion with his party, who submits most of the motions of all. If you ask me that, Mr President, I can tell you that. But that's not the point. The point is, I've decided to file one motion myself. Let us all at least try to move a little less. One motion must be possible. I have a few comments to make. First, my compliments on the contribution of the Minister of Justice and Security to cybersecurity. He said something about that and I said something about it last time. During the AO we have already discussed a lot of things, including the research into the resources needed to adequately protect the vital infrastructure in the Netherlands. That's why I haven't said anything about it, but it's still an incredibly important subject. Thank you for the commitment of the cabinet. Then there is the second point, Mr President. Yesterday, I was addressed to my cappuccinomality. Of course, that didn't make any sense, because I'd rather have a latte. But it was something else, of course, because it was the "for the one hand' nuance which I seem to be presenting. I thought about it, but I just liked the nuance of the Secretary of Law this time. I would like to thank him for that, because in the discussion I have discussed today in particular, namely privacy, security, freedom, democracy and the rule of law and the search for the right balance, there is still a need for some nuance. I have seen in the cabinet's letter on facial protection, in the contribution of the Minister for Legal Protection and also in the written reply to this section texts that I thought were: perhaps we can finally have a discussion that is more about balance and less about polarisation. I think that's what today's profits are. So I welcome the cappuccinomism of the cabinet. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. About SyRI, I also wanted to table a motion. Moreover, my group is pleased to give my one-minute extra speaking time, Mr President. SyRI's a big problem, but there's gonna be a lawsuit. SyRI's dead. That's what the Secretary of Law wrote. He writes that there will be almost no more applications. So I'm not going to table a motion on it right now, but I'm going to keep an eye on it. I do have another motion, on facial recognition, which I have tabled together with Mr Van Dam. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that facial recognition is a technology that develops rapidly and is increasingly deployed;]] [[Whereas facial recognition can contribute to the detection of criminal offences, but may also lead to errors and unwanted societal effects at the expense of civil rights such as privacy and equal treatment;]] [[Whereas the legal framework for facial recognition is divided between different legal provisions and is not conclusive, specific and unambiguous;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to complete and update the legal framework for the application of facial recognition technology by different performers and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly, while ensuring that existing and future live facial recognition programmes are applied within this framework;]] [[invites the Cabinet to make an inventory of current applications of facial recognition technology,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u596	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u597	Mrs Yeşilgöz has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u598	In any case, I would like to invite Mr Verhoeven for a cup of coffee, but I wanted to know a little more about this motion. Am I right in asking Mr Verhoeven to clarify and tighten the rules and to see how we bring things together? In the media I read that D66 and CDA say: "Until here and no further." We want a stop. We do not want to use facial recognition as long as there is no clear regulation. I think there is. But I read it so D66 and CDA say, "Now, no cameras with facial recognition." Is that right? That is how I read it in the media, and I do not quite understand how to read the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u599	The motion must be read as follows. There is a new technology, with a number of different dimensions. There's all kinds of legislation for that technology that hits part of that technology. If you add that up, you could say: there is a legal framework. There's only a few holes in it. There is fragmentation and it is not clear, so the application is not clearly encircled. That has to be done first. Anything outside that circle can't go on. So we're gonna make sure that something doesn't happen that D66 and CDA don't want. That's just like me... Moreover, I do not think what I say in the media is leading. It is about what I say here in Parliament, but that always fits in well with each other in my case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u600	Does that only apply to you or to others?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u601	For all the Members as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u602	We need these facial-recognition cameras to keep jihadists from sneaking back into our country and soccer vandalists from getting away with it. We're gonna need that technology pretty bad. I find it rather complicated that parties like D66 and CDA now say: put a stop on it; we are going to put security at risk. I'm really sorry about this. Unfortunately, I do not think I can vote in favour of this motion with this explanation, although, of course, I am in favour of good regulation in order to protect the people who mean well. That's what we want, but I don't want the criminals to be able to run off in the meantime. That's a situation you'll achieve in this way, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u603	I would like to leave the consideration to the VVD Group. They will meet on that. I also said very clearly to Mrs Yeşilgöz yesterday that I also think safety is important, but not at the expense of everything. This is not the case when it comes to the detriment of innocent citizens or when technologies are at the expense of our freedom and our rule of law. The trade-off is different by lot. D66 and CDA have said: this technology must comply with all legal requirements; so far and no further. If the VVD wants to go further, with the blinders on, then they have to know for themselves. I hope that they will at least think wisely about this good balance, because that is the most important thing for me in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u604	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u605	Mr. Chairman. After today, it will not be surprising that I do not so much doubt the intentions of this minister, but that I doubt whether the Minister understands that radical measures are now needed very quickly to ensure that the police can simply do their job. That is necessary because the outage is so big, because the emergency aid is so squeaking and cracking, and because there are just no district agents anymore. That is why I have signed a number of motions by my fellow Members. And that's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the police have been asked to contribute EUR 145 million to the Justice and Security budget over the next five years by means of an adjustment from their own resources;]] [[whereas the police will have to invest in the near future to meet their own ambitions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the requested financial contribution from the police is not at the expense of the funding of the direct police duties or the number of agents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u606	Mr. Chairman. One point on which I believe Minister Grapperhaus and the Labour Party can work very well together is prevention and the approach to the neighbourhood. To support that, I have drafted the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that problems with early school leaving, undermining crime, unemployment and integration accumulate in some neighbourhoods;]] [[Whereas in the Rotterdam Zuid (NPRZ) National Programme, the Empire, Municipality, Corporations, Healthcare Institutions, Schools, Business, Police and Public Prosecutor's Office cooperate;]] [[believes that the neighbourhood in which you live should never determine your freedom and your chances in life;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a district-based approach aimed at substantially reducing the problems referred to undermining, including:]] [[guidance and youth assistance;]] [[increasing the chance of a catch;]] [[quality of education;]] [[investment in public space;]] [[focusing on measures for liveable living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u607	Mr. Chairman. Finally, asylum. I am pleased that we have asked about the impact report, which the Secretary of State initially did not want to give. These are reports that have been on its desk since March and contain rather destructive conclusions, namely that it is going to have a significant impact on the IND, that the lead times are likely to increase and that the IND will have to make efforts to maintain neutrality. It's also said, if you're already doing it, do a pilot. The cabinet has no intention of doing that at all. The Council of Justice is equally destructive. In short, I can see why the Secretary of State did not want to send these reports to the House of Representatives. We're going to talk about this, but as far as I'm concerned, the conclusion is clear. It will only increase the problems with the IND and it will only increase the procedures. The result is that whoever has to leave, stays here and who can come here cannot integrate properly and quickly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u608	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the extra speaking time, which I am taking over from my colleague, Mr Voordewind. Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their comprehensive response. I was incredibly pleased with the comprehensive written reply, so I join with the compliments of my fellow Members and the words of appreciation, including for the officials who did their work last night. Mr. Chairman. I'll read out the motions I'd like to file first. Then I'm sure I filed it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mediation in criminal matters contributes to the restoration of relations and the reduction of recurrence;]] [[Considering that the budget for mediation in criminal matters proved insufficient in 2019 and the government has therefore increased it;]] [[whereas the same budget for mediation in criminal matters has been made available for 2020;]] [[calls on the Government, if the number of mediations in 2020 appears to be higher than in the available budget, to ensure that this increasing need for mediation can be met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that assessing the credibility of asylum claims on the basis of personal sexual identification or adherence to a particular religion is complex;]] [[noting that the WODC recommends the establishment of systematic evaluation studies on the development of the new working instructions;]] [[Whereas lhbti and conversion coordinators are present in all notification centres;]] [[Considers that it is desirable that knowledge on labour and conversion cases should reach all IND staff in order to achieve balanced assessments and prevent abuse of these asylum grounds;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the work instruction that IND staff in all cases where it is clear in advance that they are lhbtibrians or converts, consult the coordinators;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a dossier analysis of this method and its judicial judgements in the announced WODC review of the new methodology,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kikken, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van den Berge, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-67]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Voordewind and Mr Grothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u610	Mr. Chairman. I would like to put to the vote the motion that I tabled earlier on the Kingdom Relations budget on how to deal with violence against children, even after the government's reaction to this motion. So I will. Mr. Chairman. I have paid a great deal of attention in the first period to drugs and their problems in our society. I embrace the Minister of Justice's commitment to continue to emphasise the resident criterion among municipalities to ban drug tourists. That is what we want to underline. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Justice wants to stop drug use at festivals and even says: "We know that drugs are criminal and research shows that the visit of festivals and clubs is often accompanied by possession and use of drugs: four or five pills on average. If we were going to maintain, we'd really see something. But we have all noticed in the first period that there is a shortage of capacity, and that is difficult. And that is why I call on the government to consult with the mayors to improve the support of municipalities in the fight against hard drugs at events. I very explicitly call on the mayors to examine with them the possibilities of using the event permit and to impose stricter requirements in order to enforce the Opium Act. Can the Minister of Justice undertake to do so? With only the criminal instruments and the police capacity, we can't get there. We need the administrative approach to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u611	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u612	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have only one motion, how do you feel about that? Besides, I only have one minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the e-screener is a psychological test developed by TNO, the Trimbos Institute and lpsos for the applicants for a weapons licence and the holders of a firearm;]] [[noting that the e-screener with Kamerwide support was introduced under the renewed and stricter Arms and Ammunitions Act;]] [[noting that the Supreme Court has held that the e-screener is a strict test, but that this is justified, because even if there is little doubt, no weapons permit should be issued;]] [[noting that on 7 October the Minister in his letter to the Chamber was squarely behind the e-screener, but subsequently suspended the application of the e-screener for existing cases;]] [[calls on the Government not to change the original application of the e-screener until the new Arms and Ammunition Act has been evaluated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u613	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u614	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u615	Thank you, Madam President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas billions of euros are involved in the Dutch drug industry;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of setting up a packing fund to target the stolen money of drug criminals in order to combat drug crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u616	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the municipality of Amsterdam has decided on a national provision for foreigners (lvv) in, inter alia, Buitenveldert;]] [[Whereas residents of Buitenveldert are shocked by a rape by an asylum seeker of an older co-inhabitant of Buitenveldert who died;]] [[Whereas, because of the above serious and very worrying incident, residents have objections to the ITV, but do not find their objections heard by local government;]] [[Whereas this situation is distressing and asylum policy can never be designed to create distressing situations;]] [[calls on the government to endeavour not to allow the planned IVV in Buitenveldert to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u617	And then the final motion, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, contrary to the position of the Dutch Government and contrary to the wishes of the majority of the Dutch population, jihadists of Dutch nationality may still return and be tried here;]] [[Whereas if these jihadists are to be tried here, crimes committed must not go unpunished because there may be war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide;]] [[Whereas the burden of proof is difficult to obtain because the crimes have been committed elsewhere and the evidence may have been destroyed, but this should not be a reason not to make every effort to obtain the burden of proof;]] [[calls on the Government to take care of it, for example by giving the Public Prosecutor's Office a designation and, for example, by reserving the budget, to obtain the burden of proof and to testify during the trial to the Netherlands or otherwise, so that when jihadists with Dutch nationality are tried, the bottom stone and the law prevails,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u618	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u619	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop. No? Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u620	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop entrusted me this evening to speak on his behalf. That brings me to the tabling of two motions, one of which is more in its area. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Responsible Virtual Report of the Rathenau Institute shows that virtual technology has developed in such a way that it becomes available to a wide audience in the short term;]] [[noting that this technology also involves various social and legal risks, where applications such as murder or rape in a virtual environment could encourage cross-border behaviour;]] [[Considers that the Rathenau Institute highlights the urgent need to develop frameworks to protect consumers and frame negative impacts;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the expected breakthrough of virtual technology should lead to adjustments to the existing regulatory frameworks and legal requirements, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u621	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2020 and 2021 the IND is estimated to pay out 17 million and 16 million respectively to asylum seekers due to non-compliance with legal decision-makers;]] [[Considers that fluctuations in the asylum influx give a special character to the work of the IND compared to other public services;]] [[whereas until October 2012, therefore, the Penalty Law did not apply to the activities of the IND;]] [[Whereas, to the extent known, there is no penalty payment scheme for asylum seekers in any EU Member State;]] [[calls on the Government to identify before the spring recess 2020 how to rationalise the current impact of the Law on penalty payments for the IND, including the reduction of the amounts of periodic penalty payments, the reduction of accumulation of amounts, the exception of all decisions of the IND of the Law on penalty payments and the prevention of abuse of the penalty payment scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Becker, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My last eight seconds I will leave unused.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u623	Mr. Chairman. I know the SGP as a constitutional party. The last motion actually states that we have legal time limits, that the government does not comply with them, that there are therefore sanctions that are actually being implemented and that this costs money. Then Mr Van der Staaij says: let's see if we still have to do those sanctions. This is when we have also found today and yesterday that the government owes it to itself not to abide by these decision-makers. You could also say that we are just going to do something about that and that we are going to maintain those sanctions. Can Mr Van der Staaij explain his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u624	First of all, the rule of law does not mean that you must necessarily declare such a penalty payment scheme applicable. In other European countries, too, this is not regulated in this way, and these are also decent states of law. Two. It is true that the very first commitment must be to simply meet the deadlines. But if, for example, there are huge fluctuations, which the IND has to deal with like no other service, then there may also be situations where you say: now it is very difficult to meet those deadlines. Still, you have to do everything you can, but it does give a special character to this service. That is why we say: hold it against the light again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u625	Mr Van der Staaij says that the rule of law does not mean imposing sanctions on it. That's right, I guess. But that also applies to other points where we do have sanctions in the form of periodic penalty payments if we do not comply with deadlines. Will Mr Van der Staaij also argue that we should do this in other areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u626	You might say... if you say "a," you should say "b." Just give another example, where there is also a huge fluctuation that the service has to deal with. Shouldn't you be thinking the same thing over there? I can't come up with one-two-three like this. But we can definitely continue the conversation about it. We have to realise: if you really want to minimize the risk of any kind of exceedance, you might need a huge number of IND officials. D66 is also the first to ask if that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u627	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their comprehensive response. I would also like to wish them every success, because I give it to them to make the Netherlands safer, to keep justice accessible and also to clean up the mess at the IND. I wish them every success in doing so and hope that in a year's time we can see that we have come a little further than we are today. I wouldn't be worth a slap in the face if I didn't file a number of motions to encourage the rulers. I'll start with a motion on the taser. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has decided to add the taser to the equipment of the police;]] [[Whereas the use of the taser may be dangerous because of the use of electrical wiring shot into the body, which causes burns and may only be removed by a medical expert;]] [[Whereas the taser has not been tested sufficiently, only for healthy persons and in a controlled environment;]] [[Whereas testing of the taser has produced unclear results in certain regions where it is not clear whether or not violence against police officers has decreased;]] [[calls on the Minister to carry out more research into the Taser's health risks before entering as part of the standard equipment of police officers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Children's Rights Convention existed for exactly 30 years yesterday;]] [[noting that the Convention on the Rights of the Child was unanimously adopted by the United Nations and ratified by 195 countries alongside the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Convention on the Rights of the Child recognises the civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of children;]] [[Whereas the Convention on the Rights of the Child is legally binding, including for Dutch children in Syrian camps;]] [[Considering that children's children are not responsible for the choices and actions of their parents;]] [[whereas these Dutch children are under 12 years of age and in some cases they are babies, toddlers and toddlers;]] [[points out that Dutch children in Syrian camps are covered by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and are entitled to assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government rightly has an approach to tackling anti-Semitism;]] [[noting that Islamophobia is a growing and growing problem within our society and hurts many Dutch people;]] [[calls on the government, in analogy with the anti-Semitism approach, to come up with a plan to combat Islamophobia in the Netherlands and to inform the House of this within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Zembla broadcast of 7 November was about prosecutors in the offense;]] [[having noted that, on the occasion of the Zembla broadcast, the College of Attorneys-General has decided to set up an OM-Reflection Room Quality Development;]] [[whereas this is a step in the right direction, but such a reflection chamber can only be effective if it is independent and leads to substantial behavioural changes in the event of incidental and structural abuses;]] [[calls on the Minister to ensure the independence of the reflection chamber, to set up an appropriate sanctioning toolbox and to inform the Chamber about the functioning in practice of the OM-Reflection Room Quality Development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-75]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-76]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-77]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u629	Mr. President, I'm almost there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it has been found that the Dutch police have disproportionate use of stopping and searching powers on members of minority groups and that this is a matter of ethnic profiling with the police;]] [[Considering that this problem would be addressed through the use of the MEOS app;]] [[noting that violent acts of violence are not clearly recorded by all units;]] [[Whereas data collection and analysis through the MEOS app is almost impossible;]] [[Whereas no measuring instrument is active that can map the extent of ethnic profiling;]] [[Whereas the Minister cannot constitute a correct policy without knowing the scale of the problem;]] [[considers that the problem of ethnic profiling cannot be addressed without an effective measuring instrument;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce binding rules on reasonable suspicions on the basis of the ECRI's advisory report earlier this year, so that powers for controls, surveillance and investigation can only be carried out on the basis of objective criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u630	Finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prime Minister is engaged in talks with many interest groups, including the yellow hoops, farmers, entrepreneurs and very often the multinationals;]] [[noting that in the black-and-white discussion Kick Out Zwarte Piet (KOZP) refers to the feelings of many Dutch people;]] [[Whereas it would be a testament to political and moral leadership if the Prime Minister were to engage in talks with Kick Out Zwarte Piet;]] [[whereas Kick Out Zwarte Piet likes to enter into talks with the Prime Minister;]] [[invites the Prime Minister to enter into a short-term discussion with Kick Out Zwarte Piet and inform the Chamber about the outcome of the discussion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u632	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u633	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first motion aims to speed up asylum procedures and stop the accumulation of unpredicted files, without prejudice to anyone's right to sue and without putting the system on the shovel. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers are entitled to free legal assistance by a lawyer throughout the asylum procedure;]] [[Whereas it encourages asylum seekers to proceed with proceedings as long as possible and to submit as many repeated asylum applications as possible even in cases of obvious lack of opportunity;]] [[Whereas the above results in long waiting periods, poachy procedures, crowded asylum seekers' centres, excessive nuisance by asylum seekers, reduced chances of expulsion and increased illegality;]] [[Whereas the Government's proposal to stop legal aid at the stage prior to the rejection of an asylum application does not provide an adequate solution to this problem, since the problem is correct at the stage following the rejection;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Legal Assistance Council not to grant any more fees to lawyers in respect of asylum procedures which, in the Council's view, are not legally effective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hiddema and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u634	It's okay. It's okay. Also in criminal practice, criminal lawyers from the Legal Aid Board are repeatedly told that declared hours are not paid because, in the Council's view, the file is not complex enough and the legal case is simple to deal with. That's what needs to happen here, too. That narrows down the ambition to go to trial, seems to me, and it doesn't cost anything. Then there's the second motion. It's about pre-trial detention with criminal asylum seekers. As long as I have been standing here, I have been arguing for the freedom of choice of the criminal asylum seeker to be detained in remand and thus not to be carried out massively in groups of harassers, but to appeal to him on his individual responsibility and actions. Just locked up in remand. If he then has to choose to leave voluntarily, from his cell, then that happens easily and the country of origin does not refuse to record at all. It's a well-known fact. That's what Van Zwol says. How far does the Secretary of State's ambition to stimulate this freedom of choice a little in the way I seek? That's bar and angry. A motion by Mr Voordewind, who was able to embrace my idea, was brought to the attention of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State said: "Aha, you can do that." The remand is possible, because that's what the law says. So Mr Voordewind's motion has already been taken up. A foolish reasoning, because she actually wanted to say: what is this motion about? Okay, well, I'm sure it's clear by now what it was about. It's possible. Mrs Van Toorenburg has also woken up and this afternoon she asks the Secretary of State: will we not even take criminal action against those people? What does the Secretary of State say after pressing? I'm going to investigate that, when she said months ago: Mr Voordewind, it's in the law. What are you bitching about? Of course we can. And now she's going to investigate. So for months nothing has been done; time wasted, time wasted. What an incompetence. But there's one more thing. We have witnessed this evening the appalling, sad report on the trip of this poor Secretary of State to Morocco. This has made it clear that any attempt by this Secretary of State to persuade Morocco to take back criminal asylum seekers is now in advance to be regarded as powerless. It has admitted in this Parliament that it is not considered to be a person of sufficient stature to speak with at all in Morocco. She put the Moroccan government right here as an agency that humiliated her. Such an affront to a country, and then Morocco, known for its Moroccan hospitality. That is not welcome if they are told how they feel about Moroccan hospitality. It is no longer possible for foreign affairs to be smoothed out in such a way as to face up to that country. In doing so, this Secretary of State has declared himself unfit for work. It will never be able to beat a dent in a pack of butter towards Morocco again. That is why the request to her, an apple: stop it, in the form of the question: will you please do so? Then there is the motion, because it has to come again. Heard the debate, finding that the Chamber adopted a motion on 23 April asking the Cabinet to urge the Public Prosecutor to make greater use of the existing possibilities of detention when asylum seekers commit a crime. That motion was, of course, adopted by the Chamber and then there are still questions here as to whether criminal law might be applied! What are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u635	Let's finish the motion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u636	Yeah, I'll read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on 23 April last the Chamber adopted a motion requesting the Cabinet to urge the Public Prosecutor to make greater use of the existing possibilities for detention when asylum seekers commit a crime;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State informed the Chamber by letter that the use of the possibilities of pre-trial detention was an existing part of the approach of criminal asylum seekers, thereby implementing the motion;]] [[Whereas the reaction of the Secretary of State does not indicate that the Public Prosecutor's Office has been encouraged to make greater use of these possibilities and that the motion has therefore not yet been implemented;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the motion effectively, by encouraging the Public Prosecutor to make greater use of the aforementioned possibilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u637	How can this be encouraged if the Secretary of State is questioning her ambition that she does not even know whether the criminal asylum seeker can be registered in Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u638	You had to read the motion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u639	Yeah, it wasn't ready. Don't you want me to move on to the order of the day? Then you'll have to let me finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u640	If you issue a motion, it will be copied and distributed and you can proceed with your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u641	Invites the government to carry out the motion effectively, by encouraging the Public Prosecutor to make greater use of the aforementioned possibilities, and moves to the order of the day. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u642	You have another motion, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u643	Yeah, it's a practical motion, because that's what I'm really worried about. That really needs to be dealt with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that more than 200 police stations have been closed since 2014 and that approximately 100 agencies are still scheduled to close by 2025;]] [[Whereas the closure takes place mainly in rural areas, which makes the police less approachable, reduces the number of declarations made, increases driving times in these areas and increases (organised) crime;]] [[calls on the Government to cease the further closure of police stations in rural areas and to explore the possibilities of reopening already closed police stations there,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u644	May I also thank you for the pleasant guidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u645	Thank you. You have almost six minutes left, but you can finish it next week. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u646	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna walk a little out of time, with your permission, because I have five motions. I'll start with the longest one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the national police are faced with major capacity problems that are largely due to the ageing population, which means that 17,000 police officers will retire in the coming years;]] [[Whereas every additional agent is currently needed to keep Dutch society safe;]] [[having noted that, on the one hand, older police officers are forced to work well beyond their 60th, by limiting, inter alia, the construction of an early retirement pension (extra);]] [[Whereas police work can be so difficult that a better pension scheme is of great importance both for the health of agents and for general safety;]] [[having noted that, on the other hand, older police officers are forced to retire at the beginning of their retirement age, as current legislation opposes the possibility of a voluntary deferred pension;]] [[Whereas, in particular, detectives would have been helped if policemen who want to work longer could continue to work and this could increase the transfer of knowledge to new staff;]] [[noting that the impossibility of early or voluntary retirement does not help to deal with the problems within the police;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of ensuring within the national police:]] [[a better pension scheme allowing agents to retire early if the heavy work so requires;]] [[a voluntary deferred pension for agents who would like to continue and work,]] [[and to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that connection websites mislead people and charge unnecessarily high information number rates in order to contact authorities or companies that are reachable by telephone free of charge or at limited call costs, such as the free number 0900-8844 of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[noting that the national police, as well as other agencies such as the Tax Administration, ConsuWijzer of ACM and the Consumers' Association have long been warning about these transfer websites;]] [[noting that in 2016 and 2017, the Minister considered the issue of the undesirableness of these transfer websites and the establishment of detailed rules to better protect consumers, if the current legislation and regulations are insufficient;]] [[noting that up to now the ACM has not been able to combat these practices effectively with the tools at its disposal and thereby continue to defraud the relevant transfer websites;]] [[calls on the Government to take appropriate measures to ensure that misleading connection websites and associated telephone numbers, which charge unnecessarily high information number rates for the transfer to, among other things, the free telephone number of "no urgency', but police service, can be effectively combated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that older police officers with long working experience within the police have valuable knowledge, but because of their age and condition cannot always participate in operational police work;]] [[noting that at present every agent is valuable for strengthening police capacity;]] [[Whereas good employership is important for strengthening the police;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the experience and valuable knowledge of older police officers can be maintained for the support of operational agents, for example by setting up business offices within national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-84]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen, Kikken and Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-85]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Kooten-Arissen, Kuiken, Krol, Azarkan, Van den Berge, Van der Graaf, Van der Staaij and Hiddema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u647	I note that Mr Van Kooten-Arissen is tabling two motions for a resolution requesting that something be investigated. Then I will ask who is to investigate it, because if it gets back to the police, it will be at the expense of something. So it's a bit of a motion that bites itself in the tail, so I'd like to know who would have to do that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u648	I'm asking the minister and the government, so yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u649	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u650	I think it's a good idea to check if it actually cuts wood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u651	Mrs. Helder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u652	Well, no, I honestly don't think so, because with research like this, we're about to put people to work that we might need somewhere else. I would be against it, at least that would be my voting advice. I think the Minister himself should know something. It's gonna take a while to get it checked out, and we don't have that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u653	I very much agree that it should not be taken away from police capacity. That makes sense to me, so I'm gonna ask the government. And of course you're free not to support it, but rather. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the police are now deployed to contribute to the security of commercial projects, such as events and professional sport;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for collective resources to be used when private security is an option;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of having organisers of large-scale sporting events and events pay for police deployment, and to inform the Chamber about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Hiddema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u654	Then my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that police officers are calling for less leadership and more colleagues;]] [[noting that society calls for more blue on the streets;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for agents to be on the streets as much as possible;]] [[calls on the government to consider how to reduce the number of management positions and policy-makers in the police, so that the resources released can be used for executive agents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u655	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u656	Thank you. This also brings us to the end of the second term of office. 63 motions have been tabled. I understand the rulers need about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u657	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u658	Mr. Chairman. The later on in the evening, the cleaner the people, but that may not always be the case behind the chair. I'll start with the motions. In addition, if the judgment is Chamber of Commerce, I will be very brief. In the case of "dissuade" I will give a clear and bold justification. After that, I will deal with a number of questions, but I think it would be a good idea to give a clear opinion on the motions first. I shall begin with the Helder motion in part No. 26, about the Veterans Act. I'd advise against it. There has been extensive discussion with my predecessor on this subject in the Chamber. The result was that the General Law Decree lays down a special duty of care for police officers which regulates claims and rights similar to those laid down in the Veterans Act. So it's not advisable. The Helder motion in part No. Twenty-seven, I'm telling you, too. It is about incorporating the right to security into the Constitution. You have already heard it in my introduction: security is precisely the foundation of our rule of law as such. Security is not under discussion, as it is inherent in the rule of law. Without security, you have no rule of law and no opportunity to exercise your fundamental rights. The inclusion of a separate right to security does not add anything to that. I'm just gonna move on to the De Graaf motion on piece number. 35 in which the government is asked not to allow a jihadist on Dutch soil and to denounce international conventions that prevent it. I'm deceiving that motion. No person may be deprived of the right to enter the territory of which he is a national under Treaty law. Moreover, our own regulations are based on that principle. The motion in part No. 38 belongs to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and deals with alleged extravagants of Dutch nationality who report to a Dutch diplomatic post abroad. Well, I am pleased to be able to discourage this motion, which is actually support for the existing policy. What is described in the motion is already so. You will always be contacted locally first, asking: are you going to prosecute this person yourself? Afterwards expulsion to the Netherlands and so on takes place. In the Yeşilgöz-Zegerius/Van Toorenburg motion to piece No. 39 The government is asked to come up with a legislative amendment that removes bottlenecks and obstacles encountered to the withdrawal of recognized Dutch travellers from the Netherlands. I must advise against this motion, because in the coming months there will be a legislative review of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security, which has already been reported to the Chamber. That evaluation shall be carried out through the WODC. It's all settled in that law. Then we'll know exactly what's going well and what's not going well. That is a commitment from my predecessor, although the name was still reversed at the time, because it was Minister of Security and Justice. Moreover, the horizontal provision of the law will automatically take effect on 1 March 2022. Then the Chamber will have a new Chamber; at least I will assume that it will have every chance to see how it intends to proceed with that evaluation. Then I come to the motion on the exchange of information in SMEs. I am relieved when I look at Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. Because I'm judging him, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u659	That's the motion in part No. 40, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u660	Yeah, that's it. I'm sorry I didn't mention the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u661	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u662	Then the motion to part No. 42. It calls for information on how to secure and strengthen the fight against undermining crime in the longer term for the 2021 budget treatment. I leave this motion to the Court of Justice, because this will be discussed in detail in the detailed progress letter on a broad offensive against undermining crime. Then the motion to part No. 43 on coordination and a coordinator for countering undermining, including in particular the example of a Directorate-General at the Ministry of Justice and Security. I'm giving that motion judgment room. That is, of course, including the information to your Chamber, because that was also in the motion. The motion in part No. 44 of Mr Van den Berge, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Wassenberg asked the government to come forward with a comprehensive written response to the proposals of the police unions and also to involve the executives of VWS. That motion gets judgment, too, Chamber. The motion-Van den Berge c.s. in piece No. 45 calls on the government to speed up the agreement between the ministries of JenV and LNV on the extension of the subsidy from the National Inspection Service for Animal Protection (LID). That motion, too, will be judged by Chamber. You will be informed in accordance with the motion in mid-December. The motion in part No. 46 concerns a request for an investigation into how to prevent stagnating sex cases by providing sufficient capacity at the Centres of Sexual Violence, the Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice. I don't recommend that motion. We just got that extra money we're really working on. I also said tonight that I'm going to work with the police to give that impulse. And we're also going to look at the chain effects in spring. It's premature to start researching that already. You can see that the motion is, to some extent, a kind of policy support, because at least we are going to have a look with those chain partners. But I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u663	The Centre for Sexual Violence has, after all, been given and attracted a number of special tasks by the municipalities. These centres are doing extremely important work. I would ask both ministers to take the opportunity to speak with them a little more intensively about what they are up against. There are a number of special things, including on-line abuse, where they see a responsibility for themselves. The police also ask them to take that responsibility. I would therefore like to ask whether these two govern ments would like to have a specific discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u664	Mr President, through you I apologise to Mrs Van Toorenburg but also to the Centre for Sexual Violence. I should have said that clearly. My colleague will have that conversation with those centres next week. He may be able to say something about that himself. I pledge that unity. Last year, of course, I applied it once in the wake of my colleague Mr Oppenheim. That was the motion in part No. Forty-six of Mr Van den Berge's report, which I do not recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u665	Very briefly, Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u666	I'd like to say I'll hold the motion. Then I hope to be informed about the outcome of those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u667	At the request of Mr Van den Berge, I propose his motion (35300-VI, No. 46). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u668	Then there is the motion that I myself gave the cup of beep and squat. That was Mr Van Dam's motion on the possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u669	What number does the motion have? I can already hear Mr Verhoeven screaming. He knows exactly what motion this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u670	That's the motion in part No. 51. That is the "beep' and "cracket' motion, because that is clearly stated in the third recital. That motion will be judged by Chamber. That already followed from what we exchanged in the debate. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Van Dam's motion for a resolution on the introduction of the police chapter into the budget in separate articles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u671	That's the motion in part No. 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u672	Excuse me, that is indeed the motion in part No. 52. I'd advise against it. I sent your Chamber a letter last week in response to the Council of State's information. The Council of State notes that there is no need for division. The Council of State says that it does not lead to more information, but to more divisions. And it works counterproductively for the operation of the police because it hinders the chief of police in his flexibility. In the meantime, I would like to say that I am working on a more informative police budget. We have already started this in the 2020 budget: a substantively deepened Article 31 of the JenV budget. This comes with the draft budget 2021. In short, I dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u673	Very briefly, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u674	I respect the Minister's judgment. However, I think that he makes a rather one-sided reference to the opinion of the Council of State in my opinion. There is much more in that opinion from the Council of State. I am perhaps not saying that to the Minister, but to the fellow Members who can still benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u675	I'm not generally a one-sided person. I haven't done that so much now. I have really focused on Mr Van Dam's most fundamental concerns, but I understand that he accepts my opinion. Then I come to the Van Dam motion on part No. 53 on the pilot in the context of expanding boa performance tasks. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. I think it would be a good idea to do that pilot. The Van Nispen/Van Raak motion in part No. 54 on the half-yearly report on the inflow rates and the like: Court of Justice opinion. I'd like to be willing to do that. Then there is a motion from Mr Van Nispen, on item No. 55, which he submitted together with Mrs Yeşilöz-Zegerius. That motion is about the strict enforcement of Wwft. If the motion means that the Wwft supervisors in financial institutions are effectively and correctly applying the available enforcement tools, including withdrawal of permits, then I will give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion-chicken/Van Nispen in part no. I would like to ask the government to ensure that the requested financial contribution from the police is not at the expense of the funding of the direct police tasks. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The price adjustment can be used by the police. The police, like the other organizations of JenV, contribute to solving the general JenV problem, but this is done by appointing the auxiliary prosecutors later. It is therefore certainly not at the expense of current capacity and tasks. So I'm deceiving the motion. Then the motion Chicken in part No. 66, which I would just like to mention the motion in the area of prevention. Let me put one thing first. The neighbourhood approach we want to go to is not so much a neighbourhood approach as we had it. If I may explain in such a way that it is a safe neighborhood without weed labs, where children can grow up safely, that is indeed part of that approach as we have it, and then I will give the motion judgment Chamber. The Wassenberg motion in part No. 69 is about the e-screener. I don't recommend that motion. The application of the e-screener has not changed. The introduction is more phased. I have already said that I am coming up with a letter on this subject, in time for the AA of mine thought 18 December. Forgive me if I'm wrong for a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u676	December 19th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u677	Then I hope you'll forgive me, because I was wrong for one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u678	Of course I forgive you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u679	Then I come to the Krol/Yeşilgöz-Zegerius motion on part No. 70, which calls on the government to investigate the possibility of setting up a packing fund to target stolen money from drug criminals in order to combat drug crime. This is contrary to the principle of generalisation of the removal proceeds as laid down in the coalition agreement. I am in favour of this agreement in the coalition agreement for the reasons I mentioned in detail in my first term. One. The perverse stimuli must be avoided with this. Two. You must also avoid the fluctuations in your own budget. Then we have Mr Krol's motion on item No. 72. It's about giving the prosecution a lead on getting the burden of proof and that sort of thing more in the context of jihadist prosecution. So that's the motion in part No. 72.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u680	No. 72, yes. It's like a bingo night with all those songs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u681	Well, that's a pretty nice idea for next time too. Mr. Chairman. I advise the Krol motion in part No. 72. The cabinet attaches great importance to the trial of ISIS fighters..................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have always said that there are really excellent people on that. A specialized district attorney, who's in charge of legal engineering. This Minister should not go in there with a clue, so that is not recommended. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mr Azarkan/Van Kooten-Ariës to part No. 75.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u682	What number did you just dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u683	I did not advise the Krol motion in part No. 72. This time I mentioned the number! It was your bingo number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u684	Yeah, yeah, I wasn't paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u685	The motion Azarkan/Van Kooten-Ariës in part No. 75 wants to investigate the health risk derivatives of the power surge weapon. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That has been tested very extensively and has also been shown from your Chamber and from the corps impatience about the fact that we did so many of these kinds of investigations. So the motion in part No. 75 has been dissuaded. The Azarkan motion in part No. 76 states that children in Syrian camps are covered by the Children's Rights Convention. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. The government has always supported the view that this is a situation outside the jurisdiction of the Netherlands and the court has recently confirmed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u686	Yeah, but the operative part of the motion is out of the question, so the government isn't getting anywhere...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u687	No, but I thought it would be good to dissuade her anyway. That's always wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u688	Ah. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u689	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to meet the minister. In my motion to part No. 72 I wrote: calls on the government to take care of it, for example by giving an indication to the Public Prosecutor. I understand that's where the problem lies. I'd be happy to get rid of that subtlety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u690	Mr President, through you I say to Mr Krol: it is and will continue to intervene in the rule of law, even if you remove it, and we really should not want to do so with each other. So the motion in part No. Seventy-two, I'm gonna keep on dissuading you. Mr. Chairman. The Azarkan motion in part No. 77. That motion calls for a plan of action on Islamphobia. I don't recommend that motion. I cannot repeat often enough in all kinds of companies that the government is in favour of a generic approach to discrimination. That's one. And the anti-Semitism plan is clearly a plan aimed at the specific problem that is very specific there. That's what we're gonna do. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motion in part No. Question No 78, by Mr Azarkan, on the reflection chamber. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. That reflection room quality development is very well set up. There are two former judges, two scientists, two lawyers, two police officers and one prosecutor or attorney general. That could go up to four or so. The Presidency has been put in the hands of a former judge, and I really must tell you that I welcome that. I think it's really good of the D.A. to let people look at themselves that way. I think it is a balanced composition, and then we really should leave it that way. I shouldn't get involved in that either. Mr. Chairman. The Azarkan motion in part No. 79 to introduce binding legislation on the basis of the ECRI's advisory report earlier this year. I don't recommend that motion. Mr Azarkan and I share the same objective. We want to combat ethnic profiling, eliminate it. That is what happens, but we should not restrict the powers that the police have in legislation, because that is what this motion is about, by giving binding rules of reasonable suspicion and that sort of thing. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 80 is actually the request that the Prime Minister talks with Kick Out Zwarte Piet. The Prime Minister explained this in detail in Question Time. I advise against this motion, because in the end the cabinet must always be able to decide for itself. It is a policy of its own with whom it is talking at some point for whatever reason. Then there is the closure of police stations in rural areas, the motion in part No. 83 by Mr Hiddema. I don't recommend that motion. I've talked to your room about that a lot. I do not see Mr Hiddema. This is not so much about desks. It is about the services of the police and I have explained in detail a number of times before what has remained the same in these services and what has changed in this dynamic world. In short: dissuade. Then there were a number of motions from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. First of all, the motion in part No. 84 with regard to a better pension scheme, early retirement and letting people work that they want and can. I would advise against this motion, because to a large extent that is already existing policy. I am looking, for example, at the fact that agreements have already been made with the unions and are still being made about early retirement opportunities in certain cases and also about agents who want to go through and can do so. That is what the cabinet explained in detail in my first term, after urging me to do so, even made extra money available in 2018. So, dissuade it. Then there is another motion on the misleading numbers, the motion on part No. 85. That is a motion on behalf of the Minister of EZK, so I would like to suggest to Mrs Arissen that she hand over the motion to the Minister of EZK. Then it could be discussed in an AO or a debate. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her now. Then there's the motion in part No. 86, on investigating how to preserve the experience and valuable knowledge of older police officers. I must advise against this motion, which concerns the setting up of business offices and the like. For the rest, I would also advise against the motion, because we are already using that experience and valuable knowledge of older police officers. Today I would have liked to give some thought to the recently retired district agent Bennie Visschedijk from Enschede, a truly impressive district agent, such a person that made the Netherlands great. I didn't get to that because we had some other topics today, but still. So this motion has been dissuaded. I have two more motions, Mr. Chairman. Do you want me to finish that one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u691	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u692	Then I have the motion in part no. 87 from Mrs Van Kooten who is looking into the possibility of having large-scale sports competitions and events paid for police deployment. Dissuade. Police deployment is not for sale. That's a core task of the state. We have already talked about where the police are being deployed today, and the Minister is not in charge of this system. Precisely the local authorities have the banner to determine that. Mrs Arissen then had one last motion, the motion in part No. 88, on how to reduce the number of management positions and policy makers in the police. I don't recommend that motion. During the last reorganisation, there are 4,000 management positions less left. During work visits in the country, I speak to the leaders of basic teams who tell me that they think they sometimes have quite large numbers of people under them. So, dissuade it. Mr. Chairman. All I have to do is answer the questions. I can do that very quickly, but I see people standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u693	I'd like to talk about the motion in part No. 86. It has been signed by many fellow Members of this House, but my name is not included. So I'm talking a little bit for my turn, but I think it's a very sympathetic motion. I would like to give the proposers: perhaps that link to these business offices can be removed. And perhaps the Minister will say: but this is so sympathetic, we are already doing this. Maybe then he can take over the motion or still give Chamber judgment. Once again, there are names of many fellow Members, but I find the motion very sympathetic. So if there's anything that can be done to get the motion judgment room and we can embrace it, I'd actually like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u694	Yes, but I embrace the first part of the motion in such a way that it supports policy. And then I heard very harshly from the chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u695	Yeah, that's right. Then it's: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u696	...then it's a....positive detachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u697	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u698	Yeah, it's called dissuade. I can't help it. That's the terminology; I'm sorry. But it's positive. So I say: I think it's a good idea, but I'm already working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u699	I have a brief question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 85, which is about the accessibility of the police. The Minister may well say, but also a little formalistic: that is in the domain of my colleague from EZK, so you should take it up with that minister. If the Minister is not able to say anything here about the accessibility of the police and the deception in calling those phone numbers, which I think is crazy, then I hope the Minister will be able to say that he is going to ask his fellow minister to send us another letter before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u700	Mr Van Nispen often made such a suggestion. And I'd like to take it from here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u701	So we get that letter before the vote, before Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u702	I admit that I am asking if the Minister of EZK can send a letter on this before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u703	Many thanks for the help of my fellow Members. I'll come to the motion on part number one. 86 and the example of setting up business offices. I will discuss this with the co-signatories, but I would like to come back to it and see if I can get that example out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u704	Good. Then what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u705	I am positive about it, but it is still, according to the rules of your Chamber: dissuade. That first piece is already a policy in existence. I would like to be open and transparent about that. I can now use that last word again, because Mr Hiddema is not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u706	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u707	It's a suggestion from the police unions themselves. So if it's standing policy and it's totally unnecessary, I suppose they wouldn't be proposing this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u708	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u709	Mr. Chairman. I have some questions to ask you. I'll get through that soon. Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius asked what the concrete follow-up steps were to prevent jihadists from returning. To recognise them, national and international cooperation and information are shared. I can go into this in great detail, with all these bodies within European cooperation. A European arrest warrant has been issued against all known travellers. As Mrs Yeşilgöz, of course, knows very well, we have the PNR law. That stands for "Passenger Name Record". That law provides that passenger data can be used under conditions to detect the travel movements of those returners. And we have now completely operationalized that. In my letter of 1 October 2019 I also discussed how we will proceed with this technology. And at least let it be clear that every known returner who returns will also be apprehended. And if there is a danger to national security, nationality can be returned before it is actually in the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u710	I have the question to the Minister whether he can still judge my motion in part No. 14 (35300-XV), which I submitted last Monday. He may do so at a later date, but he can do it now. The Minister also replied in writing. In that motion I ask that we talk to the KNVB, see how the criminal prosecution of racism in the stadium can be improved, and to look at special cameras and microphones in that regard. The Minister for Social Affairs said: can you not take that up with the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u711	That is a motion which I shall leave to the House's discretion. Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion from Mrs. Helder. That is a motion that has been tabled by her before. She referred to it herself. I don't recommend that motion. It actually says that there is structural money... I'm gonna save everyone else from this. I refer to my explanation of why this cannot be done now. But Mrs Helder can, of course, hold the motion until spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u712	No, I'm really not gonna do that. That's what I've been talking to the co-subscribers. I held the motion in the debate in September because the Minister literally said a brooding chicken should not disturb you. So we did not do that in consultation. Our hearts were full of expectation, not until December 5th, but until Princess Day. But nothing came of it. Then you'll have to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u713	A brooding chicken with a beating heart. In the spring the Easter Bunny comes again. I said very clearly that I am really working on it, but it is too soon now. So now I really have to dissuade the motion. Mr President, I had a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u714	You're not getting that cake tonight, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u715	I would like to consider, and that is a state of law remark, that I had already kept my story when you announced this contest. While we're here, you're suddenly telling me there's going to be a bingo. I wasn't prepared for that either. I don't have a bingo card, and that's a little tricky. I'm an avid bingo trailer, but once again, something is drilled through my nose, next to the cake. Mr President, the trial and judgment agreements that Mr Groothuizen asked for. The D.A.'s gonna come up with a proposal. They're working on it. I will inform the public prosecutor, as I say, that I would like to see that plan in place by the first month of the following calendar year at the latest. Then I'll come back to your room, too. I will do that next year, because on 18 December, I thought, we will have another debate on Breedings. I think it's good that we feed that first. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. I'm gonna tell her I'm gonna talk to the mayors like she asked. I think it is very good that she puts the issue of the strict requirements for the event permit on the agenda. Mr Markuszower asked about the acute threat to Mr Wilders. As I said in my first term, I want to repeat this aloud. I really think that is something that should have the greatest attention. This concerns both Mr Wilders' security, which goes without saying, and the question of how we can take further steps here towards the authorities of the country where this gentleman appears to be or at least has his origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u716	Mrs Yeşilgöz, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u717	A fine commitment to the Christian Union. Is the Minister prepared to include the organizers of these festivals in those talks with the mayors? I know that, in general, they are very keen to be responsible and would like to participate in the debate in order to make the best of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u718	Let me make it very clear that I am going to talk to the mayors about this in the first place. I certainly think it would be a good idea to talk to others later, with stakeholders, as we call it today with an ugly anglicism. But I think the point Mrs Van der Graaf has made, namely those mayors, is most important in the first place. They're like us, directors, government, with a responsibility. I think it's something to keep in mind for the next round. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Yeşilgöz had another question about Gorinchem. I must say, however, that Mr Dekker and I have looked deeply into each other's eyes; we often do so. We have established that neither of us has spoken on this matter. But I'm just gonna pick it up. At least I'll say that we hate that kind of violence. That goes for both of us, of course. I understand the police have worked very hard on that. She now has the identity of a large number of suspects. Five reports have been filed. They're being treated. CID's working on analyzing all the footage. For the rest, of course, I am not going to say anything about that now. You know why. I shouldn't do that as Minister of Justice and Security. Mr Markuszower had also said something about this, which may have been in the first term too, but I have been clear about the fact that there have been reports and so on. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg had a point of criticism about the sale of drugs to minors. I'm sorry. I didn't go into that too much. That's right. It's an important point. I'm just gonna say it briefly. I'll take that from here. I've been willing to talk to the D.A.'s office to say for once: people, how is that going; how are we doing with this? We've talked about this before. Mrs Van Toorenburg also expressed her understandable and, as far as I am concerned as a minister, justified annoyance that it seems in some places that this directive has been stuck behind the wallpaper somewhere. So I'm giving up that commitment. I'm going to have a good and critical conversation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u719	I appreciate the speed that the Minister is running now in view of the late hour, but in my second term I have asked the Minister to deal with the problem that we have been able to read again today in the newspapers and on the Internet, much more comprehensively than he just did. Those reports are about the fact that immigrant groups often hunt for native young people or elderly people, there is a kind of racist attack, and that the streets of the Netherlands are no longer ours, but of people who really do not belong here at all. I've asked the Minister what he's going to do about this. Can he announce any measures? Could he perhaps see if there is a dual nationality so that these groups can be thrown out of the country? I would ask the Minister to reflect a little more on the problems we have seen again today, and not to take this off so casually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u720	I may not have addressed the points raised by Mr Markuszower in detail, but I thought that we, both the Secretary of State and I, had a rather detailed discussion on this in the first period. I would like to repeat that once again, but I do not think that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u721	In any case, it has passed me by rather quickly. I would appreciate a somewhat deeper analysis by the Minister on this point. I mean not just a reference to what the Prime Minister said about this during a brief Question Time, but a reflection by the Minister on what is going on here in the Netherlands and what he can do about it. This is the debate on the budget for Justice and Security, and this is really affecting the security of the streets of the Netherlands. So I would say: Minister, we have all night as far as I am concerned; I would like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u722	I am very sorry, but I really have to say at what point Mr Markuszower missed that deep analysis, as far as possible during a budget debate, because we should not be doing a PhD here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u723	I can help you. At the moment, many Dutch are afraid. They're afraid to walk to school tomorrow. They're afraid to walk in the park after school. When they're older, they might be afraid to be robbed in their porch. These are often native Dutch people who are the victims of what I called "roods'. These are packs of often, not always, immigrant young people who, in groups, attack, molest, smash, kick on their faces and smash them in. And then we have a minister here who has to ask me, a simple MP, what to do about this. You may need to impose or introduce restrictions on territory. You might need to get a restraining order so those packs can't be in contact with each other anymore. You might want to check to see if you can throw them out of the country. You need to find out if you can arrest them with a special pickup police and throw them in jail for a long time. I'm not the minister, am I? I would like to hear from you what you are going to do to keep the streets of the Netherlands safe and to ensure that innocent Dutch people who want to travel freely in public transport tomorrow or who want to walk around in parks or do those groceries or who simply want to walk around in this country freely and safely, are not tapped by packs of immigrant young people who are making this place unsafe and destroying this country. You're gonna have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u724	Mr. Markuszower, isn't this the subject that was discussed at the settlement today? I think they asked for a response at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u725	I don't know. Has there been a request for a debate in the scheme? But if there is a debate about it in the settlement...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u726	No, there was a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u727	But I'd like to hear about it now. Here's the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u728	But I don't know about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u729	It has been discussed to include this issue in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u730	Look, there are limits. Not in the Netherlands, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u731	One thing, though. This is the core. This is the core of what you need to do. This is the real undermining of the Netherlands. This is also undermining the Netherlands. You gave a ten-minute introduction today about the undermining, the drug undermining, all undermining. This is also undermining. Packs of immigrant young people undermine the security of the Netherlands, but the Minister simply does not want to talk about it during the budget!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u732	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna say something back to your room. I am not aware that the arrangement was agreed this afternoon in order to add this in detail to this debate. If it is, then maybe I should consider exactly how I'm going to do that, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u733	On a point of order, Mr President. A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u734	...I didn't prepare for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u735	You don't have to... Well, not prepared? You've been Minister for two years, haven't you? This has been going on longer than today, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u736	No, a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u737	But let me make a point of order. A debate has been requested in the Arrangement, but I have a debate now. And I have my own second term. I have paid attention to it in that regard. I want an answer now. The Minister doesn't have to prepare for this, may I hope? Because the minister is an intelligent man, isn't he? He was appointed to regulate the safety of the Netherlands, wasn't he? So I just want to hear it from the minister right now. He doesn't need prep time, does he? If you don't, we're gonna suspend for a while. I'll fill you in. And then you tell me what you're gonna do. It's not that hard, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u738	Let me be very clear. In any case, this is a problem which, as far as public order and security are concerned, is a matter for the... I thought I was interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u739	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u740	As far as public order and security are concerned, that is a question of the police, of the decisions that are taken there again, we are given the word's' by the local triangle when it comes to the stakes. We have seen quite clearly a number of times that the police simply take up their duties, no matter what kind of group it is when it is a group violence crime, or regardless of the background of individuals. This means that the prosecution or, at least initially, the investigation is carried out by the police state of the art. That's one. When it comes to the issue of the extent to which action should be taken against people who, for example, do not yet have a residence permit, I am not going to say anything about it. You understand. That's not my part. In that sense, I'm just gonna stay out there. Anyway, the services in the Netherlands just take that up properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u741	I think it is indeed a bit uncomfortable because we said this afternoon that we would like to pay attention to that. I would like to ask the Minister one question on this point. At different places in the Netherlands we have School & Security. There, police officers are specifically attached to schools to see how they can make sure it's safe at school. Quite clearly, these terrible situations, which Mr Markuszower rightly calls attention to, were linked to a school. A school itself said to the parents and students: be careful when going to school; don't walk through a park. It's a big deal when children have to hear from their parents that they can't go to school alone anymore. I would like to ask the Minister whether he will be able to pay particular attention to the question of whether School & Security has been addressed and include it in a letter so that we can discuss it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u742	That is, of course, very much in line with what I said earlier in connection with Mrs Kuik's motion. That is indeed true in a number of cases. When I visited one of the cities in the south of the country, I actually noticed that there are indeed such warnings for schools. I think that the way in which Mrs Van Toorenburg draws attention to this is certainly still part of my domain. When we talk about groups coming from asylum seekers' centres and doing things from there, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u743	No, it wasn't about that. No, Mr. Markuszower, I'm going to see Mrs. Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u744	I think I get the emotions a little bit. Anyway, I feel really bad myself. When you see the footage of what happened in Gorinchem, you don't lose it very quickly. Let alone being a victim of that or that's your kid. I ask the Minister to come very quickly with that letter which was also requested this afternoon during the settlement. These are not people from asylum-seekers' centres or anything like that. What we see in Beverwijk and Gorinchem are young people living in that neighborhood. I was in Beverwijk last week and just waiting in groups for other children to beat them up as a kind of sport, to hoist them up and attack them like hyenas. We then see this in the media and that is, of course, terrible. I went to Beverwijk and talked to the victims there. I think it is a good thing that we in the Chamber show that we are working on this, that we are concerned and that the ministers are in contact with the mayors and the triangle in the local municipalities. But what else does it take? What else could happen? For example, the mayor in Beverwijk says "Minister," help me. We have asked questions about this. I don't want to stand in front of every horrible incident in the Chamber and ask the Minister to contact me. I'd like to radiate force and implement it. I don't want a letter in three months, I don't want a description of what the triangle can do, no, I want to show that we're on top of this as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u745	That letter will certainly come, but I have just said quite extensively about the incident that Mrs Yeşilgöz is talking about. I would like to stress that once again. The police went straight to work on that. In the meantime, the identity of a large number of suspects has been established. In short, lick piece by piece in the search and that's what it's all about in the end. This is also the case with incidents or events that do not make it directly to the newspaper. I said our police are very good at that. Mr. Chairman. I had the question of Mrs Van Toorenburg about police liaisons and OM liaisons. The latter are in Italy, in Madrid and in the United States. We are now looking at whether we can further roll that out to other countries. I do agree with her that this is an excellent means of combating international crime. Mr Azarkan asked about the investments in the police. At the end of the year, 99% of the operational formation is occupied, although it may differ slightly per unit. We know 1,100 additional agents are being assigned. The numbers are divided and this is explained in detail to your Chamber in the strength distribution letter. I would like to refer to that. I've had it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u746	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u747	Mr. Chairman. I have no questions, but I do have motions and an amendment. One motion was not tabled during this debate, but I think it will be put to the vote. I believe Mrs Van der Graaf wanted an opinion on it. The motion is about banning juvenile abuse in the BES islands. I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 28, I'm not sure. That is also what I am doing with the motion in part No. 29. The motion in part No. 41 is about the notaries. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. On the motion in part No. I do not think I need to advise Mrs Van Toorenburg on 49 because it is not addressed to me. It's hard to tell if this is gonna get picked up. It's up to the Chamber to deal with it the way she likes. Then the motion to part No. 56, about injury damage. I thought we had a pretty good debate on that. Then I look in the direction of Mr Van Nispen. I would like to get to work on this in itself, but I do think that we really need to wait and see. I think we can see that time. It's been a few months. Maybe I could ask you to hold the motion. I'll respond to the investigation as soon as it's there. Then we can look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u748	The Minister can ask me to hold that motion anyway. I also think I will do it in this case, if the Minister also says that he will not only come back to the investigation, but also to the substantive proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u749	That sounds like a very fair deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u750	And then the motion is in part no. 56 apprehended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u751	The motion in part No. 57 deals with a topic that makes us all very enthusiastic, namely neighbourhood justice and justice closer in neighbourhoods where it happens. However, I do not recommend this motion, because I think it is a very good reason, an end in itself. While we all say that justice close to home is intended to solve problems sustainably. I think you should look at that in a broader context, not just with a judge around. Perhaps there are other forms that you could appeal to. You don't necessarily have to take everything off a judge. I believe that Mr Van Dam has once said that we must be careful that the judge does not become some kind of social worker. I think it's important that these tests run, but I also think it's important that we see if they work out. Before we start with scenario scenarios where we're going to roll the whole thing out, I'd like to wait and see. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u752	Very briefly, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u753	So it doesn't explicitly say roll-out. It does say, "scenario tests." I think this is something. Because it is in the coalition agreement and because justice is enthusiastically going on with it, I would be sorry if we had to conclude later on that no pace has actually been set. It is precisely with the mapping of scenarios that I hope to keep up with those projects that we almost all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u754	I'm just turning it around. I would like to speed things up by putting the energy into the things we can do now and help them now. That's the energy the court needs to put into setting up some of these things. Take Eindhoven, for example, where people are working on a community court. There are ideas in Amsterdam, there will soon be a House of Law in Limburg. Keep up the good work. In my view, we should devote all our energy to the examination of the Experimentenwet, which is now before us in the House of Representatives. If we do that, we keep pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u755	I think the Minister is making very good points. He has the full support of the Christian Union to take those steps now. The Chamber must also get to work quickly to move the Experiment Law forward. I am also trying to see with Mr Van Nispen whether we can still get a more positive response from the Minister. The goal is actually to see how, in the long term, we can give that proximity judge a place in the Netherlands. Positive advice has been given, also by the researchers of the WODC. Can the Minister indicate what he might be able to do with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u756	This kind of initiative arises in different places in the country. I would be very much in favour of supporting them. That's gotta get the energy in there. We have also always said that it must be tests that take long enough to tell us about their impact and that they must then be properly evaluated. Then it may be that we say that this is a very good thing, that we want to continue with it, that we want to roll it out further. It may also be that we say: we have learned something from it, but we do not go through with it because it has not been successful. Or we say that we take elements out of it that we are then going to translate into regular case law. I'm very sorry for that. What is going to help is the Experiment Law that is now before us. It's still going to be treated here. Let us look at it, I would say, that is also a bit of an invitation to the Chamber of Deputies, whether we can put some pace on it, because that gives a huge boost to new trials within the various courts. In the motion in part No. 57 is asked to make scenario scenarios, to examine what is necessary for this in the area of laws and regulations, and to do so we need that Experimentation Act to look at what is necessary in policy and budgetary terms and to submit a comprehensive report on it. I get the feeling of a lot of paperwork and a lot of future music, while I think we should just take concrete steps at the moment. That is why I am a little hesitant and say: let us not do this now, but let us do the things that we really have in the scaffolding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u757	Mr. Van Dam, you're not going on the same motion, are you? I think that has been said enough. Then it is ultimately up to the Chamber to vote in favour or against. I understand, Mr Van Nispen, that you would like Mr Van Dam to say something. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u758	I just want to say that I am now aware that there are about 40 pilots in the country. So I'm wondering if it's not possible to do that, instead of mapping those scenarios, about those 40 pilots within a year is reported. I believe that the authors of the motion will come a long way. That would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u759	It's possible. Those are pilots that are wider than just the neighborhood judge. We could do that. Then I'll tell you. The motion in part No. That motion was to be expected, I say to Mr Van Nispen, who deals with legal aid. It is asked to continue with scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Committee. We agree that we need to work towards better and more reasonable compensation for lawyers and, as far as I am concerned, better legal aid for those in difficulty. I deliberately did not choose to do so through the model 1 of the Van der Meer Committee. If we wanted to do that, we could, but then we would not have to table a motion, but an amendment proposing to add 150 million. There is, but then this motion does not add so much. It's understood that I'm deceiving this motion. Then the motion to part No. No 62 tabled by Mr Groothuizen. I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. But if we ask for an opinion from the Council of State, I am looking at Mr Grothuizen, then that means that the legislative proposal, which I promised in the spring, may come a little later. Otherwise, the two of them will intersect, and then it won't make a lot of sense. I see Mr Grothuizen nodding that he doesn't mind. Again, judge Room. Then the motion to part No. 64 tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Dam. This motion, which has just been the subject of a debate, calls for a review of the legislation on facial recognition technology and for it to be comprehensive and up-to-date. That is a continuous process, especially with such a rapidly evolving technology. In my view, there is now sufficient and good legislation, but whether that is still the case in one or two years' time, we will always have to look closely at it. And, of course, everything we do has to fit into those laws and regulations. That's how I see this motion. That way I can get out of my way and leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 67: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 73 by Mr Van der Staaij, I actually find a very nice motion. As former chairman of the Rathenau, I can tell you that we wanted to know at the time whether the opinions of the Rathenau had any effect in the House of Representatives and in the debates that are taking place there. One of the ways to find out was through an analysis of the debates and by looking at how often the Rathenau Institute was called. I call it Rathenau a number of times now. That's all gonna be ticking in case that investigation gets done again. I think such a motion has double word value. If that motion is adopted, that actually counts extra heavy. I have been able to look through the report and I am actually being asked what the effects are of the new technological developments towards the future. Here we are asked to consider what that could mean for legislation. I can do very well with that and therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is a new amendment, the amendment to item No. 25. This is about forensic investigations following a discussion we had earlier on the revision of criminal law. I have already indicated that I find this complicated in terms of construction at all. That is why I advise against the motion, apart from the fact that the cover also ends up in a place where there is no free space. That would be at the expense of other things in the Justice Department. Mr. Chairman. Those were my points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u760	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u761	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will respond to the motions and I will answer two more questions from the first term. But before I do, here's what I want to say. As a result of the change in the first term, the image that Morocco refused me was wrong. That's not true. I would therefore like to explain once again the way things are going. I am committed to doing so and to taking away the impression that I have been refused. I would like to visit Morocco to talk about return. The relationship with Morocco is complex and versatile. That's why we're working together as a cabinet. The estimate was that I would not get to speak to the right people on a visit; I heard that through the Foreign Office. That's why a journey has been started to get to such a visit and that's where I'm working. If it turns out that this is going to work, an official request will be made by the Netherlands. Diplomatic steps are being taken to this end together with the Foreign Office. If I'm told tomorrow that it makes sense to go, I'll be on the plane the day after tomorrow, so to speak. Because I share with your Chamber the need to go to Morocco, as well as to a number of other important migratory countries. That's what I've been talking about. I also told you I'm going to Nigeria next week with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u762	I wonder what exactly this is different from the previous explanation. The Secretary of State is now saying that the assessment was that she couldn't speak to the right people. That's what she said at first, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u763	I understood that there had been some misunderstandings about it, and that is why I wanted to correct it, but there was no misunderstanding about it with Mr Jasper van Dijk. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u764	What we were so surprised about was that you wanted to speak with your Moroccan colleagues, but that did not work. Now you say that again. We are still surprised that you did not actually have the opportunity to speak with your Moroccan colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u765	I wanted to correct the impression that might have arisen, namely that I was refused in Morocco. I put that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u766	I do not believe that there is any misunderstanding on the part of the Chamber either. The Secretary of State has been wanting to go to Morocco for some time to discuss this so urgent issue, but she is not welcome there so far. That's still the situation, isn't it? It is not just the literal words of the Secretary of State himself in her first term, but it is also the actual situation. So far, there seems to be no colleague in Morocco who has wanted to receive the Secretary of State. That's the situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u767	I want to put it exactly as I just said it. The estimate was that I wouldn't get to speak to the right people on a visit. I got that through the State Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u768	I assume that assessment is based on a concrete signal from the Moroccan side, which says: well, if Mrs Broekers-Knol comes here, we don't have time for her. That assessment is based on something, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u769	Mr. Chairman. I told you how it turned out. I thought it would be useful to explain that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u770	As I said in my second term, we have now asked questions to the Foreign Minister. We'll ask him what that assessment is based on. The fact is that the Secretary of State has been wanting to go to Morocco for some time, that the Chamber has insisted on such a visit, but that visit has not been possible so far. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u771	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u772	Mrs Becker asked a question on which I would return in the second term, namely that there are noises that the police do not check the residence status of foreigners arrested for crime. Mrs Becker's question was: is that right? The criminal justice chain and the migration chain have concluded a protocol on foreigners in the criminal justice chain, the so-called VRIS protocol. The purpose of the protocol is to link foreign legal consequences to criminal offences identified by the police and the judiciary, for example withdrawal of the residence permit and expulsion. This protocol is on DT&V's website. That protocol states that the AVIM, in popular terms the Alien Police, carries out actions to achieve that goal, for example identifying the alien using an alien number. The Ministry is talking to the implementation partners, including the police, about any improvement points. Then there was a question from Mr Voordewind about the procedural directive and compulsory legal aid. Mr Voordewind asked me about compulsory legal aid under the EU procedural directive. The provision to which Mr Voordewind seems to refer is Article 19 of the Procedural Directive. However, it is not about legal aid but about information. That information is also fine by offering the IND or other parties and that is what is being done. The provisions on free legal aid are laid down in Article 20 of the Procedural Directive. It does not contain the compulsory legal aid referred to by Mr Voordewind in the first term. I therefore believe that the procedural directive is not an obstacle here. Since most other EU Member States do not have legal aid in the first phase of the asylum process, it would also have been strange if this obligation were to follow from the procedural directive. Then there's the motions. The motion of Mr Emiel van Dijk to item No. 30. The airline must bring back people who are not admitted, that is the consequence if we put people on the plane. Then the airline has to take the people back, so that doesn't make any sense. As I explained, there was a special situation with a Moroccan lady from Ankara, namely that she is being prosecuted in the Netherlands. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion by Mr Emiel van Dijk on item No. 31, I must also advise against. Moldova has been assessed in the sixth tranche of assessments. You received the letter on 20 November 2017. An investigation is under way as to whether Moldova might be considered a safe country of origin, but it is not at present. In any case, the motion is immeasurable, so I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u773	Then I have the next question to the Secretary of State. What is she going to do now to prevent any more busloads of these crooks from coming here and going into the procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u774	The KMar is busy keeping as many buses and cars as possible, to see if human trafficking is happening. At least that's what's going on. And for the rest, the situation is indeed so that when people report to Ter Apel and.... the IND has to act on that. But I can tell you that we urge as many as possible those who arrive to return quickly. There will be a sober reception, so that beds will remain available for promising asylum seekers. And it's also very positive that the Moldovan government is quick to get papers so that people can return. And if necessary, they will be put into custody.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u775	Mr Emiel van Dijk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u776	That's a huge problem, isn't it? If those people can't get back right away and the word "asile!" Calling in any form, they're all going into the procedure. That's the whole problem we're dealing with here, isn't it? Seventy percent is a safe man and has no business here. They are all going to go into the procedure, at the expense of the taxpayer, and they are all going to go to trial in order to reclaim periodic penalty payments from the Dutch taxpayer. Surely it is not possible for you to stand here and say that you can't really do that much with it? You are even criticized by your own coalition colleagues that you are not going to work vigorously and do nothing. Then this is precisely the point where you can say: 'I will show you what I have in my march.' I'm gonna take care of these guys. I'm just gonna turn them off right away, and I don't care what Moldova thinks about that. They're going straight back with the bus they came with, whether or not they're asyluming! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Gone!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u777	One of the measures we are taking is that the IND has put together a special team that ensures a short, robust procedure, with the effect that people can go back as quickly as possible. Once again, thanks to cooperation with the Moldovan authorities, there are opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u778	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u779	I come to Mr Emiel van Dijk's motion on item No. 32. It calls on the government to stop compensating asylum seekers by not paying any more periodic penalty payments. I must advise against it, because periodic penalty payments are imposed by the court. I'm carrying out court rulings. In addition, I am committed to speeding up the IND procedures, in order to avoid periodic penalty payments. Then the motion to part No. 33 by Mr Emiel van Dijk. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade him, too. Criminals to whom a prison sentence is imposed go into detention. If eviction is possible and there is reason to believe that the person concerned will withdraw from supervision, foreign detention will follow. There are no more possibilities for deprivation of liberty. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr De Graaf, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party He asks for criminals with a double passport to be denaturalized and expelled after serving their sentence. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. If a person has been convicted of a terrorist offence and has a dual nationality, it is possible to withdraw the Dutch citizenship. That does not apply after a conviction for any criminal offence. That's disproportionate. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap does not offer any possibilities for this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u780	I would like to know the views of the Secretary of State on the following. A Moroccan man over 50 has been here 50 years. He's committed three burglaries, two rapes and an attempted murder. That's what he was convicted of. And now the judge says: yes, but the importance of this man and the Dutch state is not in balance if I have him deported. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? Maybe after giving her opinion on this case, could she arrange for that man to just leave our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u781	I just said I'm bound by the judge's ruling. I'm not gonna go in there, either. The judge is the independent third power with us in the Netherlands. If he's given a ruling, then that verdict stands. It is not for me to go in there and say that the gentleman must be expelled, because that concerns Article 14 (4) of the National Law on the Netherlands. We can't do that unless we're convicted of a terrorist offence. Then I come to the motion on part No. 36 by Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u782	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u783	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u784	The man is not a Dutchman. He's had a residence permit for a long time. Then pull it in, I'd say. The Secretary of State can arrange that, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u785	I come back to what I have already said: a judge's judgment has been reached. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 36 by Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Toorenburg, in which the government is called upon to address the partners in the agreements and to report to the Chamber on this, and... Well, I won't repeat it all. I shall leave this motion to the House's judgment. In the promised briefing, you will be further informed about the Ivvprs. By the way, I have confidence in the collaboration with the municipalities in the lvv-constructions. Then the motion to part No. Mr Becker, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Groothuizen, on migration agreements. I leave it to the Court to judge, with the remark that these are processes that sometimes require quiet diplomacy. That is what I said in the first place on this subject. Then the motion to part No. 47 by Mr Van Ojik to refrain from shortening the temporary residence permit. On this subject, the cabinet chooses to align as much as possible with what is common in Europe in the context of harmonisation. It's about a five-year cut to three years. The IND will not be faced with additional workload in the short term, as the law can enter into force at the earliest in 2021 and then we start with the three-year period. The first review will therefore take place in 2024. This motion I must advise against. Then the motion to part No. 48 by Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Becker, on stepping up checks on human trafficking. In the framework of Foreign Control and Mobile Surveillance Security, checks are carried out by the national police and the KMar at asylum seekers' centres and national borders to combat trafficking in human beings. This is also happening around the registration center in Ter Apel, for example. In recent years, several arrests have taken place on suspicion of trafficking in human beings. I have just said that with regard to the Moldovans. We're gonna see where things can be more effective, because that can never hurt. If I may read it in such a way that it is within the existing capacity and financial frameworks, I shall leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 50 members Van Toorenburg, Van Wijngaarden, Groothuizen, Van Ojik, Jasper van Dijk and Krol. It's about the shipwrecks in the local communities. I must advise against this motion, because I am not aware that Italy has made a request for support. That's why I can't take over this motion. Moreover, it is primarily up to Italy itself to take the necessary measures to deal with this problem. I can assure the Chamber that I will raise this at European level and ask whether there is indeed a need for help. The first opportunity is 2 December, at the JHA Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u786	I think the Secretary of State can simply leave the motion to the Court's judgment, because that is what we are asking for. We ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to make an effort to provide support, if necessary. Because of course it is not a nauseous club that went to Lampedusa and there, with the ambassador, has heard that it is a problem. We have seen the misery and we thought: can't we find a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u787	Mrs Van Toorenburg is right. I didn't get a good look at the phrase "in a European context" but it does say "in a European context" and then it's true. I shall therefore leave the motion to the House's judgement. Then the motion to part No. 59 by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuik on legal aid. In my first term, I explained why I am holding on to limiting legal aid. I believe that there is no reason for a national head on top of European rules. Moreover, this will not enter into force before 2021, if it is adopted, and it will not necessarily apply to decision-makers. That's what I said. I'll take into account the possibilities at the IND. I have also promised that I will be sure to be careful. So my judgment is: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 60 by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Kuik. This motion is about the robust shelter. The motion refers to separate custody of nuisances. To a large extent we have such an arrangement with the ebtl. I am currently looking at how we can continue our experience with the ebtl. I don't want to leave it at that. As I indicated in the written reply, I am also more committed to the sober reception of all safe people on track 2. I shall leave this motion to the House's judgment. Then the motion to part No. 61 by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Toorenburg, on the visa code. Such action is a possibility when the amended visa code enters into force in February 2020. I think we should then look at this on a case-by-case basis. It is not necessarily effective for each country in general terms, but it is effective for the part of the potential toolbox to promote return. And that's good. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 63 by Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Van Toorenburg are concerned with case management in complex cases. Let me just say that I agree with the idea behind the motion. As I have already written in my response to Van Zwol's report, I clearly see the benefits of this. However, I have indicated that due to the large delays of the IND this is a difficult time to introduce that case management in complex cases. We already know a form of case management in cases of criminal asylum seekers. In addition, we will start with case management in cases where a readmission agreement has been issued by a diplomatic representation. That doesn't mean I want to leave it at that. Experiences with this approach should eventually be further developed into broader case management. I don't want to wait for the delays to leave the IND. As far as I'm concerned, we're building that up before. If I respond in this way to what the motion asks, I will leave the vote on the motion to your Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 68 by Mrs van der Graaf, Mr Voordewind and Mr Groothuizen on the question of asylum, Ihbti and conversion. I read in the motion that in the cases in question I am asked to be consulted with a coordinator specifically designated for lhbti and conversion cases. I can also imagine something about the proposed dossier investigation. I'm willing to record this with the WODC. I therefore leave this motion to the House's judgement. Then the motion to part No. 71 by Mr Krol, on the rural provision of foreigners in Buitenveldert. I have received a letter from the people who live there. Unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion. It is a local matter, and it is not part of the cooperation agreement. Then the motion to part No. 74 by Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Becker, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Krol, on the penalty payment scheme for asylum seekers. I would like to repeat once again that the primary solution to this issue is to shorten the lead times. That is what my commitment is now focused on. And adapting the law on this point is not my priority. Having said that, the motion asks me to map things out. And that is always possible, of course. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u788	Judgement is up to the Chamber, Mr. Grand Houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u789	I have a question about that. When the Secretary of State had not been Secretary of State for a long time, she said "I think that is a very good idea. People have to follow the rules and we have to abide by the rules as well. If you then give this judgment, then that sounds a bit like: we have to stick to the rules, but if those rules are going to get a bit tight, we're going to find out if we're feeling very comfortable with that. I can't quite rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u790	I have made it clear that my commitment is to the primary solution of this issue, which is to reduce the lead times. That's what I'm committed to. The motion asks for a map of cases. And mapping can never be wrong. That is always possible and is always a good idea. And that's what the motion asks. I'm willing to do that. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Force amounts are something that your Chamber has brought about by means of an initiative law. That's true. The government must also abide by this. But I told you this: that is primarily my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u791	Then I understand that the Secretary of State says: I am going to map it, but the chance that I will ever come to the Chamber with a proposal is not so great, because rules are rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u792	I said I'd leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I also said I want to find out. That's what the motion asks me to do. If the Chamber asks, I'd be happy to. Then it is up to Mr Groothuizen himself to think what he will do with it. Then I come to the motion Hiddema/Bisschop in part No. 81 on reducing legal aid for asylum seekers. What is requested is contrary to what is laid down in the Procedural Directive. As I have just explained in response to Mr Voordewind's question, free legal aid at the front of the asylum procedure is not a European obligation. Free legal aid at the back of the procedure is. I'm dissuading the motion. Then there is the motion Hiddema in part No. 82 on the application of provisional detention to criminal asylum seekers. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. In the written answer to Mr Hiddema's question in the first term, as stated earlier at the AO of 7 November last year, the motion was discussed with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In that conversation, attention has been paid to this. That seems to me to be a sufficient incentive. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u793	I would like to return to the answer given by the Secretary of State to my colleague Mr Voordewind's question on the EU Procedure Directive. I understand that the intention is to make the Procedural Directive, whereby the Netherlands has the freedom to introduce or not introduce measures into Dutch law, a procedural regulation. We are obliged to take over. I understand that it is right that free legal aid and representation should be made compulsory in all Member States during both the administrative procedure and the appeal procedure. I would like to ask for a letter from the cabinet to put the measure that has now been taken to restrict legal aid for asylum seekers in the light of the proposed procedural regulation that is currently in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u794	I do not know what the proposed regulation is, as Mrs Van der Graaf obviously knows. I'll look into it and, if necessary, see what comes out of it. But I can't make a commitment about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u795	Perhaps you could reply in writing to Mr Voordewind, who asked this question through Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u796	I can see what it is and what the state of play is, including with that regulation. If it becomes a regulation, it will have direct effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u797	I asked for a written reply, a letter, to the Chamber on this matter. So very much so: we look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u798	After some pressing, the Secretary of State was kind enough to send those two execution tests to the Chamber during the break. That's very nice. I said we haven't read everything yet. However, I did quickly see the Council's conclusion to the case law, namely that the lead times are increasing and that the capacity at the IND is a matter of concern. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to respond very briefly to that conclusion of the Court of Justice and indicate how that will lead her to start the pending procedure for an AMvB after all. You'd say that conclusion actually says "don't do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u799	It is true: the two impact analyses were sent to the Chamber. In the motion of the First Chamber at the time, by Mrs Strik, the government was asked to carry out an ex-ante execution test in both the IND and the judiciary prior to the entry into force of the AMvB. Those analyses shall be incorporated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision of the AMvB. That draft decision is not yet ready. The AMvB will then be consulted and put in place. I planned this in the first quarter of 2020. I propose, as I said in the first time, that we have a more substantive debate on both the draft decision and the analyses when I have also sent the draft decision to your Chamber in the framework of the preliminary procedure. The draft AMvB is still in preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u800	Then perhaps very briefly, also in view of the time, the conclusion. We have talked here for hours today about the fact that waiting times are increasing and the pressure on the IND is also increasing. And now the Secretary of State says: I've had an execution test done, which shows that the pressure on the IND is increasing even further because of what I'm planning, but I'm going to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u801	Mr. Chairman. I did not say that the pressure on the IND is increasing even further in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u802	No, that is what the Council said before the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u803	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u804	No, but, Mr President, I have just said that, and I said that in the first period too, we shall have a more substantive debate on both the draft decision and the analyses when I have also sent that draft decision to your Chamber. Then we have that debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u805	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u806	But it's still in preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u807	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-12.u808	I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I thank the Members of Parliament. I would also like to thank the officials who have worked hard over the last few days to answer all our questions. I would also, of course, like to thank the Stenographic Service, the clerks, the messengers, the people who have followed this debate in one way or another. We are going to vote on the motions tabled next week. After I close the meeting, I'll announce who can take the cake with me tonight.
