ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the next debate in one smooth motion, because the spokesmen have already arrived and it has been 11 a.m. That is the debate on animals in livestock farming. We have eight participants from the Chamber, all of whom have six minutes' speaking time. The first speaker is Mrs Ouwehand from the Group of the Party of Animals. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. This debate is about the suffering and death of animals in livestock farming. It should be a fundamental debate. Unfortunately, of all the parties, I only see the agricultural spokesmen. That would not be such a problem, because that is the use in the Chamber that only the spokesmen do the debates on which we are dealing. However, this Chamber has 85 seats of parties that have already promised eighteen, nineteen years ago that by 2022 at the latest, the animal's perspective is leading in livestock farming, that the system is adapted to the animal and not the animal to the system and that animals can exhibit their natural species' own behavior in livestock farming. We only have three years up to that deadline, and the VVD, D66 and the Labour Party, but that last party doesn't really rule it at the moment. Because the promise was: by 2022, let's not be unreasonable, let's give the sector the opportunity to switch. So the good news today is that we agree: intensive livestock farming as it exists, the way animals are bred, used and killed is morally unacceptable, finds this Chamber. But then, if you ask for that promise to be kept, if you table a motion asking the government to clarify how we are going to achieve that promised goal for the animals, then parties are voting against it. The VVD didn't want to vote for it, the CDA didn't, D66 didn't, the parties that now have the power, including the Christian Union. Also under Balkenende IV it was the promise. Gerda Verburg took fifteen years and also had 2022 as the deadline. The natural behavior becomes leading. We're far from that natural behavior. We need to talk about activists who record in stables what daily reality is still. And then the tears jump into your eyes. Pigs, social animals, stuck between bars, must watch their piglets mutilate. That's not representative, the Minister says. But can she confirm that what we see on those images is allowed according to her own law? Piggies without anesthesia cut off the tails, piggies file the teeth, keep the sow as we saw on those statues. Why does the Minister shoot into the denial reflex when her own rules allow all this? Last year, pigs in need came out with pictures of a pigsty and even then, politics and the sector did what they always do: denying, trivializing and demonizing the messenger. It wasn't representative. The supervisor was sent there, appropriate measures were taken and nothing was going on. Animal Rights visited that same stable a year later and it was a drama, while the supervisor stopped by. Mr. Chairman. The minister needs to explain why it's legal what we see on this footage. If it is to defend a law stating that the intrinsic value of the animal is recognised, it must defend that appropriate policy measures are also taken to comply with that law. A number of exceptions are then made in lower regulations. The intrinsic value of the animal is recognised, but not if it is a productive animal and we can make money from it. What you are not allowed to do with a dog and what you are rightly fined or punished for, we do like when it comes to pigs, cows, goats and chickens. The Minister creates her own fundamental split. The Planning Office for the Environment has already said: you can choose to stick to this system, but then you have to accept that society opposes other values. Of course she does, because animals are living beings with consciousness and feeling. When people get a look at the daily reality of livestock farming, they immediately see that it is completely morally reprehensible. Mr. Chairman. The good news is that we agree that animals have intrinsic value. The other good news is that 85 seats in this Chamber............................................................................................................................................................ The Minister can act and ensure that she achieves that goal or can opt for this model, in which the CDA and the VVD can all the time pretend to put farmers in a corner, no, the system is under discussion, in which people have to be constantly awakened by images of real reality and in which a supervisor is under fire. The Minister must protect the animals by their nature. That's what she was hired for. If the Animal Party makes a motion on those promises in 2022, then I find it appalling that the Minister says: I dissuade them. She can bypass the VVD and the CDA by saying: we leave the judgment to the Chamber, because the Party for Animals is right; this is promised to the animals, and it is up to the present Chamber to show that it honours that promise to the animals. If she does not, then I predict a growing activism, because people are not crazy and animals deserve the protection we have legally promised them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	I don't want to hear from the public gallery. Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	I've been listening to this intro. The Animal Party has in the past confirmed that it wants to eliminate at least 70% of the population but the aim is 100% of the livestock sector in the Netherlands. I wonder what message Mrs Ouwehand is giving on behalf of the Animal Party. The poultry farming allows animals to walk out as far as possible on the basis of animal welfare. Do you say to poultry: it is nice that you have done so, but you must disappear from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	What the Animal Party says to farmers is that they should no longer vote for parties they keep in this current system, because the system is not only morally bankrupt but also financially. Mr Geurts knows that. I call the system of scaling up. At the end of their term, in which they could have changed things, his own agriculture ministers even said that the future of intensive livestock farming is problematic and that we are probably not going to make it. And why not? Even if it's not about the animals, you can't compete on the world market. Much for little is a model that farmers do not sustain in the Netherlands. The practice proves that, because we lose seven farmers every day. So the Animal Party says: now choose the food of the future, switch over, convert all that money, all those hundreds of millions of euros going to livestock farming every year, for the transition to the food of the future, to a more plant-based society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	In short, it does not matter what livestock farming does; it must disappear in the eyes of the Party for Animals. Okay, well, let's get another point. I have just noted that Mrs Ouwehand said: the system is under discussion, and it is not so much about farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	Literally, she said, "The system is under discussion." She has also announced here that activism will grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have an article from the Nederlands Dagblad of Wednesday 16 January, in which a spokesperson for Animal Rights said: "We do not think it is so important what should and should not be done." Does Mrs. Ouwehand support such a quote? If Mrs Ouwehand indicates that activism is going to grow, does that mean that everything is allowed, outside and within the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	I am glad that Mr Geurts and the CDA have at least a little listening to what activists have to say. What Animal Rights said here was: it doesn't matter whether it's legal or not. Even if it's legally allowed in those stables, it's a tragedy for the animals. So that's not where the discussion is. Politics has been hiding for years, and continues to do so, behind: yes, the farmers keep to the rules. That's two mistakes. One: the farmers are not attacked, you are attacked, because you leave the rules so wide that this is allowed. Two: these rules are nothing. If you want to appease people, you can do it, but people get cheated. Because it is suggested that the rules are in order and that they do justice to animal welfare, but that is simply not the case. The rules allow your pigs a few days old without anesthesia to cut off the tail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	I think that's a lot: "Boers aren't being attacked." No, whatever. Go see what's going on in the line of work. Even your party is just standing on the yard to sample at companies that have to make a very difficult trade-off around fipronil and that have to say goodbye to their animals. You also send these people maps and images. I see activists threatening farmers. And you accept all that in the context of "it has to be different"? I find it really unacceptable, and I hope that the Animal Party will also speak out against these threats to our farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	Threats are never in order, and the Party for Animals has always distanced itself from them. But the game that the CDA is playing is peaceful and necessary activism in a democratic rule of law and necessary for the changes that a democracy must always go through to put away as extremism. I'm very sorry about that. I would therefore like to challenge the CDA to deal in its speaking time with the rule of law which it sees for itself. Because you can't just demonize and put away messengers of bad news, while they actually do what the minister doesn't: inform people fairly about where their food comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	Clear. Mr De Groot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the campaign for the 2017 Dutch Parliamentary Elections, I have already mentioned it here once, there was a meeting in Deurne, where hundreds of residents were present, who were worried about their health, and a number of hundreds of farmers, who weren't invited by the way. The tension was so high that the police needed to manage this debate properly. At that moment, I realized that we let it go as politics. We've been papped and soaked and we've lost sight of the interests of both animals and residents. That is why it is right that this cabinet should focus on the shrinkage of the pig population, especially in those areas where nuisance is caused. That is why it is a good thing that eight provinces have already said no to the further growth of goat farming. That is why it is a good thing that this Minister is finally working on barn fires, even though the D66 Group now wants to know what the next steps are. And that is why it is a good thing that this government, also under the leadership of D66....................................................................................................................................................................................... The cabinet has presented a nice vision on this. Mr. Chairman. So much for the good news. We are not here yet, because we are confronted time and again with things that the sector is not dealing with. The pig sector is making the most of non-compliance. This week there was a report in the publicity that would show that there are 2 million illegal pigs in the Netherlands. This is not conducive to animal welfare. D66 has already asked questions about the illegal keeping of goats. Then the Minister replied: I do not check the environmental permit; that is up to the municipalities. However, this minister is responsible for the total number of animals and their environmental impact in the Netherlands. So there has to be an exchange on that. I'd like a response from the minister to the report on those illegal pigs. Another example. Ten years ago, the pig sector would reduce the pig mortality rate to 10.5%, which is still quite a lot. An LTO leader mentioned this in a broadcast of Newsuur recently too ambitious, and made no promises whatsoever. And I understand that, because LTO and POV cannot keep promises. The sector returns the assignment to the government. The sector does not comply with agreements and ambitions when breeding pigtails. Should we then set issue rules here, where the government is responsible for monitoring and monitoring compliance with them? Then we will need three NVWAs and a checker on every farmer. D66 says no. We're gonna have to do something else. We must stop making agreements with only representatives of the primary sector. That's where the mistake is made over and over again. In her policy letter, the Minister indicated animal welfare that she also wants to reach agreements with chain parties, and that she is working on chains to achieve that circular farming vision and to include animal welfare in it. This Chamber has accepted a motion from D66 which the Minister instructs to discuss with representatives of the Standard Framework Holland Pig, in which processors play a prominent role, with a view to achieving a more ambitious and effective standard framework. We haven't heard more about this. Does this minister keep making deals with the LTOs of this world, or does she take the processors by the balls once? Processors are already too easy to hide behind the farmer, and the farmer is the victim of this. Mr. Chairman. Then the slaughter of pregnant cows. We received a petition about this this morning. It is not allowed to transport cows in the final stage of pregnancy, but they are apparently still slaughtered. I don't think that's something anyone wants. In the third stage of pregnancy, you simply no longer have to offer cows, or processors or abattoirs also have to take responsibility and say: we no longer accept them. Then it's just gonna stop. You may not even have to make laws for that, but I would like to hear what the Minister is going to do about this and how she shows with these butcher shops as a good example that you can actually make agreements with that sector in order to improve animal welfare. I would like a response from the Minister, and also an explanation as to why that previously adopted motion on the more ambitious framework of standards Holland Pig has not yet been implemented, at least as far as I know. And if you are going to work with those processors on the countless animal welfare issues that exist, such as teeth filing, earring and tail-cracking, then discuss whether they want to take responsibility for the number of animals kept in their chain. And, yes, the poultry farm. 44% of holdings are found to have committed infringements. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan kan ik niet anders dan constateren dat het toch een beestenboel is.]] How is that possible? D66 does not want to settle each issue separately, but wants to create integrated chains that take responsibility and not burden the government with every problem. Mr. Chairman. I come to the terrible images that regularly appear about the conditions in the stables. D66 has only one question: why does the NVWA not see that? What's wrong with the NVWA's risk analysis that she apparently doesn't see these kind of stables? I have also shared that footage with a friend of a chicken keeper. There are indeed chicken keepers, even in a majority, who take good care of the animals, and who spoke of it with horror. So how come the NVWA doesn't see that? Finally, Mr President. The government's been fooling around with false promises for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u16	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u17	One last sentence. Make arrangements with those parties............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you for your cooperation. Mr De Groot, I'd like to present you with some sort of order debate. You can take part in that too, Mr De Groot, because I want to make an appointment with you about the number of interruptions. Otherwise, it's gonna be night work. My proposal would be to do the interruptions in two, and to agree on three interruptions per group for this period, the House's term. Mrs. Ouwehand, show your enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr President, I should like to be the first to respond to that. I don't agree with that. Three interruptions in two is what we agree on in a normal debate with four minutes' speaking time. We have had to fight very hard and for a long time to turn this into a six-minute debate, because there is a lot going on. It took a year and a half before it was scheduled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u20	But you've got six minutes, right? What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u21	My proposal is to do four interruptions in threes or 12 questions in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u22	Then it's gonna be very late today. I note that you have been speaking for six minutes. Is there anything you'd like to say about it, Mr. De Groot? 'Cause you're standing here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u23	But that includes the fact that we also have extra interrupting time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u24	You're the chairman. I think you should lead the debate in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u25	I'd say four in two. But I'm gonna finish the list. Mr. Geurts, what can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u26	I already supported your first proposal, but if you decide in your wisdom to do four in two, I will also support you in that. I assume we're starting at zero from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u27	No. Your previous interruption even counted for three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u28	I support your first proposal. We have six minutes of speaking time. That's already generous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr President, I go for your second proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u30	Four in two seems reasonable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u31	I can agree with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u32	Four in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u33	I agree with your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u34	Well, let's do that. Unfortunately, I have to do it by a majority. Four interruptions in two. Well, then you may act first, Mrs Ouwehand. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. The statistics: six minutes of speaking time means that we treat more than 100 million animals per minute that we breed, use and kill every year in the Netherlands. Mr President, my question to D66. I was struck by tears this morning when I saw that Jan Terlouw is again a list pusher for the D66 list for the European elections. Jan Terlouw, who called everyone to think about why we think we can do this to animals! And now to the course of the current D66 Group under Mr De Groot's agricultural spokesman. D66 agreed with the Animal Party that the government should put an end to breeding on extra high pitches and extra teats in sows. That is the fundamental problem with piglets' mortality. Now, after ten years, the sector doesn't live up to its deal. What's D66's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u36	We absolutely share the fact that that is simply not possible. As the representative of the sector, of the primary sector, of the farmers, you cannot make agreements: you have nothing to say about those you represent. It turns out so, because in an interview recently in Nieuwsuur the driver involved pulled her hands off it. She said it's too ambitious. So it's up to the government again. D66 notes that agreements are made time and time again with representatives of the primary sector who simply cannot keep agreements. And then we'll be back here, and then we'll have to fix it. There are so many issues. Each farmer works for a dairy company or supplies to a slaughterhouse. He's in touch with the market. It just has to make demands, along with the supermarkets. That's what it's about. That is where responsibility has to be taken. So far they have been able to hide behind the farmers very easily. They get away with it very easily. That's what D66 wants to stop. That is much more effective for animal welfare. That's what you should want, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u37	I am particularly curious to see where D66 once asserts its responsibility for animals, because we agree that you already know in advance with the sector: that will not work. And in the meantime, D66 said that the government should set legal standards: do not breed on extra high pitches and do not breed on extra nipples in sows. Now the Animal Party, when it appeared that these sectoral agreements were of course not complied with, tabled a new motion with the same effect. Then D66 wanted to vote against it. I wonder if there is any discussion in the D66 Group. Or can Mr. De Groot determine it as an agricultural spokesman in his dead uppie?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u38	You ask a lot of questions, but the point is that at D66 we always look at the whole playing field, and then see what is most effective to do. It is very easy to go along with the testimony of more rules, more control and so on. It's easy to understand, too. But it's become so crazy that for every issue, the government is on the move. And then it's issue enforcement, and then we don't get it done. D66 therefore stands for animal welfare and for solutions, while giving a strong impression that you simply want to raise the problem. Fine, we have a common starting point in that, and of course we certainly have a discussion on this in the group. I also visited Jan Terlouw recently and had a very good talk with him about an effective way to tackle animal welfare. So I don't know what you're trying to say about that, but the Trouw interview was beautiful again this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u40	I'd like to continue, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, no, I'm going to listen to Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u42	But, Mr President, I would like to use my second interruption to this end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u43	Oh, that's fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u44	Yeah, because I'm wondering what happened at D66. The animals must therefore not count on any protection. First, the sector will have ten years. Then it failed and D66 says: no, look, the solution is that we need to talk to more parties. And that while D66 previously recognized that breeding animals is a major problem. This morning we received that petition about the slaughter of high-ranking animals. Those who offered the petition told us that Germany has been banned since 2017. And you know what? It works; it hardly happens anymore, except for a few exceptions. What does D66 say? You know what the problem is for the animals? All those rules they have to protect. We shouldn't look for it in rules that protect animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u45	I really object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u46	On what does Mr De Groot base that rules do not help to protect animals in livestock farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u47	This is a way of holding a debate that is really out of bounds. I just asked the minister what she's gonna do with the bad companies. I think it is effective to agree with the abattoirs to simply stop the slaughter of pregnant cows in the third stage of pregnancy. You can do that with a simple appointment. If that doesn't work, rules must be laid down. You can make agreements with a sector like that. That's what I'd like to hear from the Minister. But it's not very smart to call rules in the first place, because then you get control and everything that comes after it. You need to see what's effective. D66 and the Party for the Animals often have the same starting point, but the difference is that D66 also handles business. We are doing this now by going for circular agriculture. Earlier, we did that by banning the battery. What has the Party for Animals ever really done for the animals? Nothing at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u48	Just... just... just... just... just... just... just... just... D66 dissolves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u49	I let...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u50	One second, Mrs. Ouwehand. I don't want to hear from the public gallery. It's very simple. I don't want to hear from the public gallery. I call you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u51	(NL) Mr President, I should like to conclude this round of interruptions with D66. I have one final point, the barn fires. There too D66 and the Party for the Animals moved together. Mr De Groot just said: I am glad that something is finally happening to the barn fires. We have seen the whole package of evaluation measures and the Minister says on all the proposals that could really do something: no. And D66 agrees. D66 belongs to a party that felt that animals deserve legal protection, become a covenant party, who wants to talk to the parties. D66 is a CDA in sheep's clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u52	That's how it happened with the barn fires. There has been a motion from D66 and the Animal Party, which then called on Secretary of State Van Dam to make real progress. That's what he did back then. He then came up with an action plan for barn fires, at the request of D66 in collaboration with the Party for Animals. We then agreed on the next steps in the coalition agreement. Did the Party for Animals write that in the coalition agreement? No. What happens now? In the private quality systems there is a periodic electric inspection and there is now an approach against rodent control. According to all experts, this is the most effective way to do it. Something is happening. In addition, the Minister has now had the opportunity to examine whether it is possible to do something in the building decision for existing stables. The Party for Animals is simply suggesting falsehoods here. A lot is happening and D66 and not the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u53	I would like to ask Mr De Groot a question about numbers of animals, because he gives high priority to the government agreement which talks about partial restructuring of pig farming. He also compliments provinces where the number of animals in goat farms is stopped. What is the final picture of D66 as regards the number of animals in the Netherlands? Is that completed after this exercise, or does D66 think that more intervention is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u54	What matters is that through the transition to circular agriculture you come to another earning model, so as a farmer you can end up earning more with less production. That is the key to realizing a smaller livestock farm. What we are doing now and what D66 is advocating is tackling the acute problems of intensive livestock farming. Then we're going into a transition. Then you'll have fewer animals left, because you're actually going to keep as many animals as you need for your manure and your plant production. That's a different ratio, because you're not going to import large quantities of grain and other raw materials from all over the world. So that's gonna be a different relationship. This is now intended to take acute steps and the transition to circular agriculture is intended to eventually change the relationship between animal and plant production.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u55	This in itself sounds like music to the ears, because that means that in the Netherlands there will just be much and much less cattle in the future. In what period does Mr De Groot of D66 think this is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u56	This ambition stands for 2030. That seems far away, but at the moment we are concerned about the pace at which that transition is being implemented by the government. Fortunately we have just had a letter with first turns on, but for D66 it can be much faster. We cannot wait very long with the first steps, because they are easy to take. Where D66 disagrees with GroenLinks is that we do not start the discussion about the number of animals, such as: reducing the number of animals is a solution to the problem. The downside is that you actually have the same system and that is bad for animal welfare. Moreover, it is cost-driven and bad for the farmer and for the earth. You're going to cost a lot of money to bring down the number of animals, and that's not very effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u57	I could go a long way with Mr De Groot's words. He actually said that the sector has failed in recent times in terms of agreements and that it will then come back to the government. I could go with you until Mr De Groot said: we have to be in another sector, because we can succeed there. I disagree with Mr De Groot on this point, which will not surprise him, because I think that the government should take that role now. If you are going in the direction that Mr De Groot wants, my question is actually how long will you be prepared to work on agreements. The Minister can talk to people again and then there will indeed be another covenant. That's worked out and then there's gonna be so many years to make changes. I am so afraid that Mr De Groot will be back in an election debate in Deurne in two, six or twelve years' time and will find that nothing has really changed. I wonder how Mr De Groot sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u58	As a minister, you're not a normal party. You can arrange things if the sector doesn't cooperate. It's about looking at the chain. The farmers themselves cannot keep agreements, because they are simply bound to the processor. So it's much smarter to sit down at the table with that processor. It's like a bottleneck. The past has also shown that it can be done, for example with agreements on antibiotic reduction. You can make agreements with the sector and then it goes very fast. That's why it's effective. But you're right about what to do if that's not possible. In the discussions that the Minister is holding with the parties that can keep agreements, it must certainly keep legislation under control. But it's not so effective to say that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u59	It's not in advance; it's after ten years. A weapon that you never use will become blunt very easily. I'd like to do this prophecy. I understand Mr De Groot's story that you have to go to the processors. But then we will be here in ten years' time and we will find that processors also experience great pressure and narrow margins and that we need to be at the supermarkets. So there will always be another sector. Perhaps at some point we will get to the animal feed industry, which should do something. There's always someone you hope can fix it, in a sector where the margins are just very small. The fundamental question to Mr De Groot is: does he not think that in a sector where margins are so small and where such large questions are raised in terms of safety and animal welfare, you should have more discussion about the future of that sector in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u60	Oh, yeah. You can do two things. You can continue in the current way, as politics has done so far. There's gonna be issues. There's a big fuss. There will be motions and there will be powerlessness in the government. That is the process that we have seen for far too long. Or you could fundamentally look at our food production differently. D66 is very much in favour of the idea of circular agriculture, because then you come out of cost-thinking. So you don't think at cost anymore. Then there will be income-technically some meat on the bones of the farmers, so that they can take better care of the animals. That is a fundamental solution. Because it's not gonna work if we go on like this, with every time that ritual of indignation, motions and rules. This is not going to work until the sector itself makes the transition, under the direction of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u61	Very good. Another question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr De Groot has just praised eight provinces which set hard limits on the keeping of goats and therefore lay down rules. My question to Mr De Groot is very specific: is he prepared to support such a rule on a national scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u63	If those provinces had not come up with these plans to halt the growth of goat farming, it would indeed not have been so wrong to do it nationwide. I don't think there's that need right now, to my own surprise. There was once a law on cattle-proof areas. D66 was in favour of that. But if it is not necessary, if it turns out that the provinces can take measures themselves, then that is the case. We do not need to introduce such a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u64	I disagree with Mr De Groot on this point. Why is health in one province worth something more than in the other province? Should we not set a national standard and should we not simply ban the expansion of the keeping of goats? I would point out that we must also prevent circular farming from turning into circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u65	There are, of course, provinces without goats or without too many goats. It's not a problem there. Then you don't have to stop it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you. Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr. Chairman. This committee and the minister were on a working visit in Germany last week. Part of the programme was a meeting with our fellow agricultural spokesmen in the Bundestag. Among other things, the discussion was about how the Germans look at the Dutch agricultural policy. One of the German parliamentarians was a born Dutchman, Kees de Vries. He is in the Bundestag on behalf of the sister party of the CDA, the CDU. He said: there are too many animals in the Netherlands. After the United States, the Netherlands is the second largest agricultural exporter in the world and we can be proud of that, but only if we forget what price we pay for it. Because despite many years of efforts by many land users, nature in the Netherlands is not doing well. This is also recognised in Minister Schouten's agricultural vision. In the Climate Act supported by the large majority here in the Chamber, we agreed that 95% of CO emissions were reduced by 2050. I told that to a few farmers the other day and they looked at me with very big eyes; they could hardly believe it. Because, yes, that 95% also applies to the agricultural sector. Nature's not doing well. We need to stop climate change and we have a vision from the Minister that Dutch agriculture should become a circular agriculture. For GroenLinks, this data leads to only a future for Dutch agriculture, one with much and much less animals. And no, we do not mean the cows in the meadow in our primeval Dutch landscape, but the pigs and the chickens who never see daylight and need to be fattened as soon as possible in order to be eaten. I have already asked the Minister how the huge numbers of animals in the Netherlands relate to circular farming and she replied, like Mr De Groot of D66, that the debate on animal numbers does not begin with animal numbers but can only be a result. Question to the Minister: does she think it is conceivable that the numbers of animals in the Netherlands will fall if we take circular agriculture seriously? The refusal of the Minister and the coalition to work on reducing the number of animals in the Netherlands already reminds me of the debate on climate policy. For 30 years, GroenLinks has often called for measures to be taken in the desert, and only now, the last few months, is there any movement. Reducing the number of animals in the Netherlands is not regulated from today to tomorrow; you have to take the time for it. You have to join natural moments, such as business transfer, and you have to prepare farmers for it. You have to make social arrangements and maintain them for a long time. Now there is no plan and farmers are told that the number of animals in the Netherlands will remain the same. That is not fair and, in my opinion, will lead to painful measures later. We still have the phosphate rights discussion fresh in our memory. The Minister had to draw a hard line on this issue because of bad decisions by her predecessors. Does she want to do the same to her successors? Mr. Chairman. I visited Mark Brantjes in Beverwijk, a mixed company in North Holland a few weeks ago. The farmer showed me his stable proudly. Recently he had switched from regular chickens to a star chicken of the Better Life mark. Half less chickens, a more slowly growing chicken and other food. Of course, he should have made an investment in a walk-out with more daylight but it could just be in the existing stable and because the kilo price he got for his new chickens was much higher, the investments didn't hurt. He said he had become a happier farmer. He enjoyed the chickens running around and to his own surprise had no need to use antibiotics at all. When we were in Germany last week, we also visited a mixed company. The cows stood in a very old stable that was decorated as pot stalls. The farmer said that until recently he had tied the cows old-fashionedly in the stable, but that he had loosened the cows in the existing stable and applied a new layer of straw every two days. He didn't really have to invest for it. I tell these stories because GroenLinks believes in small steps that can bring a higher goal, namely a truly sustainable and animal-friendly livestock farming, closer, step by step. Some parties say: you should not invest in those small steps, because that is a waste of time and effort. But I do believe in it. Albert Heijn has done a lot of work on the star brand for meat. How can the Minister ensure that supermarkets only sell products with one or more stars? In other words: how can the lower limit be raised? What is the status of the Sustainability Initiatives Act? Finally. The previous speakers also mentioned: on Tuesday we read in the news that research by Pigs in Emergency would show that there are millions of unregistered pigs in the Netherlands. As I have said today, GroenLinks believes that there are already far too many official pigs. Can the Minister state if she thinks it's true what Pigs claim in need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u68	I followed the general discussion on the Brexit of the week and in it Mr Van Raan came up with the unfortunate proposal on behalf of the Party for Animals to announce a general breeding ban in the Netherlands. Then I wondered how other parties would react. I saw in the media that GroenLinks, the Labour Party and the SP would like to support that initiative. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u69	I have not yet been able to discuss this with my colleague Bram van Ojik, but GroenLinks is not only a green party but also a social party. We are not a party that wants to bring people to the begging staff. So it could be that a breeding ban could lead to fewer animals in the Netherlands, but then there is always an arrangement that does not allow people to lose their farms overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u70	Then it is a completely unbelievable story that has just been kept: you have to do this and you have to do it, but you really have to disappear and then in the way that you do at the present time in mink farming. Without compensation, just rock hard, rücksichtslos, ice cold, leaves the Netherlands. What is the value of the contribution of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance if, on the other hand, it wants to allow a breeding ban based on the Brexit and its consequences in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u71	Then the CDA hasn't listened to my story at all, because I'm asking for a plan because it takes a lot of time to arrive at a livestock farm with fewer animals and it also needs to be done socially. Then it does not help, as the CDA does, to pretend everything will stay the same, knowing that all developments in society will lead to fewer animals in the Netherlands. Then you have to start early and then you have to take your time. If you don't, you have to come up with very rigorous measures at the very last minute. And that's just something that hurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u72	Thank you. Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union attaches importance to the intrinsic value of animals. Animals are valuable as part of creation, regardless of their value to humans. That intrinsic value is a concept of the Animal Law, which has for some time been enshrined in the Civil Code on the initiative of the Christian Union. It says that animals aren't business. You can own them, but you must always take into account the fact that you are dealing with a living being. This must be the basis of our vision of keeping animals in livestock farming. Keeping animals for our food consumption raises many dilemmas. The Netherlands has a good reputation when it comes to animal welfare, but how can we maintain that lead position while at the same time ensuring that farmers earn a fair income? How do we deal with citizens' concerns about animal welfare and consumer choices, which are not always willing to pay for more animal welfare? There is a great challenge here, which goes far beyond banning certain interventions. It is about a fundamental discussion on the income model in livestock farming and how the government can create the right conditions for improving animal welfare. The care of animals in livestock farming is primarily a task for farmers, but requires the involvement and responsibility of all the links in the chain, including the feed supplier, the food industry, supermarkets and consumers. With the abundance we know in our country, we sometimes seem to forget that sufficient good food is not self-evident. Food is a primary need for life and it is actually too crazy for words that farmers in this system are price-takers. What measures will the Minister take to strengthen the farmer's position in the chain? Animal welfare is part of the agricultural vision. The Minister is working hard with the various sectors to further improve animal welfare. I read about the transport time, barn fires, interventions such as beak cap, mortality among young animals, etc. But we can't do this without social change. In a cost-driven food system, the perspective on the intrinsic value and natural behaviour of animals can easily be snowed under. The mechanisation has increased the yield of the farm, but at the same time fewer and fewer people are actively involved in the farmyard and food production has become, as it were, anonymous. I therefore look forward to discussing with the Chamber and the Minister my own initiative paper on connecting farmers and citizens. In this context, I am pleased with the action Farmers love animals. If you look at Jos Tolboom's video, you can see that animals can also love farmers. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to walk through a number of points, starting with international transport. How are the discussions with various parties about improving conditions during transport and limiting transport distances? I understand that European legislation does not allow international transport of animals to be restricted, but does the Minister see the possibility of reaching agreements with a European leading group or with neighbouring countries on the duration, conditions and enforcement of transport? Then the barn fires. They are dramatic, not only for the animals but also for the farmer and his family. Unfortunately, the Action Plan Stalbranden 2012-2016 has not led to fewer barn fires. In the new Action Plan, the sectors themselves are more strongly addressed. Agreements have been made on periodic electrification and rodent control. In addition, fire, smoke and water detection systems are now installed in the technical space. This is included in the private quality systems When has this been achieved, I ask the Minister, and can the Chamber of Progress be kept informed? Mr. Chairman. The mortality rate among young animals is too high and unfortunately it has not yet been possible to bring it down. Not only the number of piglets per throw has increased, but also the piglets' mortality, despite the large use of the sector. Now what? The Minister is focusing on a benchmark, because good results have been achieved in reducing antibiotic use. I think benchmarking can work, but I also note that pig farmers have become less open in sharing data and management programs, because numbers are sometimes taken out of context by third parties. How does the Minister intend to break this dilemma? And is piglets mortality also on the European agenda? Mr. Chairman. In 2016 the Manure study was further examined by the Ministry, which highlighted the risk of more pigs and poultry being kept than allowed. The media are now concerned about the number of pigs in the Netherlands and their impact on public health. I think it is good to get the facts on the table here and ask the Minister if she wants to find out. Another point concerns the slaughter of pregnant cows. The Christian Union has already spoken out against this. Cows may not be slaughtered on a pregnancy of six months or more, and yet it still happens. How are the discussions with the sector on this matter going? And why not three months instead of six months? Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done with my speech. I see an interruption, but I'm gonna finish it. The starting point is that farming systems are adapted to the needs of animals and not the other way around. I paid a work visit to rabbit farmers last year. They have launched a process to improve animal welfare, but they want to move forward now. What is lacking is a European standard that allows them to distinguish themselves and earn back a plus on animal welfare in the market. Does the Minister want to make an effort in Europe to do this? There are already European directives, but they are so minimal that virtually any form of housing meets. By using this European route, animal welfare in southern European countries can also be improved. Mr. Chairman. My last point, and I have really hesitated to bring it in here today, but I am doing it anyway, is the wolf. Primarily a responsibility of the provinces and I see that all provinces are thinking about policy, but if we know that a wolf runs 50 kilometers in one night, isn't it okay if the government takes on a coordinating role in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you for your contribution. One more question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u75	Yes, Mr President, I am going to try, and I thought: I am doing so in the Christian Union, because that is a party that is open to thinking about moral problems. The intrinsic value of an animal is recognised, said Mrs Dik-Faber just now, and starting point is that the natural behavior of animals is central. Now I have sought an independent source, because otherwise the Party for Animals is again accused of being sentimental. It says the word mammal: "that is an animal that sucks its young." So that's an independent definition. If we look at what we do with mammals in animal husbandry, cows, goats, then that is to make them pregnant, give birth to a young person and take it away from them immediately, because that milk is claimed by humans. That makes the boy sick and die, and those mothers can't take care of their own. Does the Christian Union really think that this is appropriate to the intrinsic value of the animal and to moral association with animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u76	I thank the Party for the Animals for that question. I recall a manifestation a few years ago here at the Square. Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand was already present. It was a meeting with all the peasants who had come here and told us how they looked at these dilemmas. They told me each and every one of them: we tried, but we just can't. There were also organic farmers, farmers with organic farms. They said: we have tried to fit this into our business, but we simply cannot. I would like to invite Mrs Ouwehand to talk to the sector and to discuss such measures with the farmers and with the farmers, to hear what they are up against. We can outline the ideal here, but unfortunately the practice is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u77	And this is the problem that, among other things, the Planning Office for the Environment outlines: if you choose this model, society will counter other values, because society understands that a mammal is an animal that sucks its young. Society understands that an animal wants to take care of her young. Society understands that a calf needs its mother and that a lamb needs its mother. The high mortality among these animals has everything to do with that. Lambs can't even drink the beast at their own mother's. Then when you say, "Yes, yes, of course, it's important that we take good care of animals, but not if we can't go economically," you do organize your own resistance, don't you? Then you organize growing resistance to this system, which the Christian Union also complains about very often, because they find it pathetic that the farmers are being put in the corner? Surely we have a responsibility here to ensure that the system is consistent with the moral views of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u78	Certainly, the House of Representatives has a great responsibility here and so does this minister. At the same time, I see that we are dealing with dilemmas. The answer the Party for Animals gives is really too easy. I wish it would work that way, but it's not. We have a society in our country that asks questions about keeping animals in our country. And rightly so, those questions may also be asked. I can also see that farmers are trying very hard to answer these questions. At the same time, there is a consumer who is then unwilling to pay the price. I come to farmers in the stables all the time. Then they say to me, "Take away half the animals. Let us take these measures to increase animal welfare. Fine, we're gonna make it happen tomorrow! But I also have a family to feed. So if I keep my income up with these measures, I'm willing to take that step." We didn't arrange that tomorrow. So what is the answer of the Christian Union to this dilemma? Step by step with the farmers going this way. See what we can achieve in the Netherlands. To appeal to consumers and citizens for their buying behaviour. See what we can achieve in Europe. Then maybe we won't go as fast as the Party for Animals would like, but we'll get there. One step at a time, and not against the farmers, but with the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Geurts from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u80	Mr. Chairman. Three quarters of our population evaluates the agricultural entrepreneurs positively. The general picture that the Dutchman has of the agricultural entrepreneur is neutral to very positive. However, a small part sees the agricultural sector as the greatest moral evil of our time. To illustrate this difference, I would like to say something about a work visit that Mrs Ouwehand and I had in Brabant some years ago. We were visiting a pig farmer. Mrs. Ouwehand and I looked through the same stable window and both saw something quite different. I saw a well-fed, healthy sow with piglets, kept in a modern stable, compared to other countries. Mr Ouwehand sees an animal there in the worst miserable conditions. Did I sum that up so well, Mrs. Ouwehand? That's entrapment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u81	You really shouldn't do that, because that's how we're gonna keep going. I am sure you have done very well, and in her own contribution she will endorse it. One sentence, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u82	This one shouldn't count as interrupting. Actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u83	One sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u84	In fact, Mr Geurts said: I see here that the milk bar is open. And I saw a dam stuck between bars and watched her own boy mutilated in front of her eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u85	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr President, I thought it was so fair that Mrs Ouwehand also added her image and that the people could then see that that is not true. She and a small group of others in our society feel that animals are so harmed. They do not want, on principle, livestock farming and will use everything to put animals in a bad light. In words, that is so far, but farmers and their families are regularly threatened and farm heirs are illegally entered, or images are made under false pretenses. That while farmers simply try to earn a living in a legal way and with good care for their animals. Meat and dairy and egg products are also simply found in all supermarkets and are bought by the vast majority of our society. So our farmers must also be able to produce these products without being placed as animal executioners. Mr. Chairman. Premeditated: farmers take care of our food, and without food we can't. We still do not live on tubes of seaweed paste with added minerals and flavourings, and if it is up to me that this is never going to happen, not even by a Paris climate agreement, which is now being used as an argument to put everything related to livestock farming in an evil light again. Our farmers are coming up in defense, Mr President, with words. Even the PBL has had to make adjustments to its publications in response. Unlike many animal activists, farmers do something useful for our society. Within the legal frameworks established in this Chamber, they keep animals with great care. Appreciation for our farmers is in order. They do their work with great passion against a often low income to provide us with food. Mr. Chairman. People have been loving animals for thousands of years. Cows in the peat meadow area have been part of the Netherlands for as long as it exists. Of course, animals are kept different now. I can assure you that it is better now than it was a hundred years ago with stables where the climate is regulated and animals have more freedom of movement. In addition, there is continuous work to keep animals healthy and prevent diseases. The sector itself is working hard on this, as we can see from the sector plan for a vital pig farming and the plan for goat farming for a healthy collection of lambs. Farmers therefore deserve appreciation and protection. What we really need to speak about as a Chamber is those who threaten livestock farmers and their families, those who enter the farmyard under false pretenses or in the middle of the night and those who justify it. We have to be tough on that. With that in mind, I will be tabling a motion to obtain a ruling from the Chamber on this matter. In addition, I ask the Minister about her approach to criminal activists. How are the talks with the Minister of Justice to deal with this very hard, I ask the Minister through the President. Can this also be linked to the cooperation between LTO, POV and police that has recently started? Of course, we must continue to look for ways to improve animal keeping. Among other things, it must be ensured that barn fires do not occur. Stalin fires are a tragedy for the animals, but also a great suffering for the keeper and his family. That is why I welcome the plan of action that the Minister has sent to the Chamber, which has agreed that the most common cause, dysfunctional electrification in existing stables, will be dealt with with with periodic checks or inspections. I also notice today that various parties are calling for farmers to be obliged to do all kinds of things without looking at the payback of investments by farmers and the income for farmers' families. Therefore, the CDA focuses on the role of the government in helping entrepreneurs to reduce barn fires. To this end, in the second term, I am considering a motion asking the Cabinet to identify the rapid detection systems available in the technical premises of livestock farms and the costs involved. I also ask the Cabinet to consider how we can support farmers in this with a financial move in the back. I should now like to hear the Minister's response to the proposal that I would like to put in a motion in second place. The government agreement and the agricultural vision state that there must be a better income model for farmers. Let us, as a chamber, take the lead in this and make this possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you. Mr Moorlag (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber there is broad support for a different approach and production in agriculture. The concept of circular agriculture is widely embraced, and this must, especially in the longer term, ensure better incomes for farmers, a better sustainable earning model, but also improve the quality and improvement of animal welfare. This is something that deserves to be supported. At the same time, in the short term, we have a number of major issues affecting animal welfare. I would particularly like to draw attention to this in my contribution. The first point is the barn fires. Mr Geurts has already referred to this. They're a great tragedy for farmers. Today, the Algemeen Dagblad came up with an overview that over 100,000 chickens, more than 6,000 pigs and hundreds of cows have gone up in flames in a year. That's just too much. The Labour Party believes that there should be stricter requirements for agricultural buildings where large numbers of animals are kept, stricter requirements for new construction. A number of recommendations have already been made in the studies carried out: compartmentalisation of farm buildings, lightning rods and sprinklers. My question to the Minister is very specific: is she prepared, in cooperation with her colleagues in the cabinet, to adapt the Building Decision to these issues for the new building of stables? The second question is whether it is also prepared to consider, in consultation with the sector, how improvements can be made to existing buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u89	Just one more correction. In 2010, Mr Graus started this issue. The Construction Decision was amended in 2014 and additional requirements have been laid down for new buildings. It is now about imposing additional requirements on existing stables. What's the PvdA's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u90	I call for a double approach: strengthening the requirements for new construction and looking further at how to improve existing buildings. The Minister's letter does take steps in this direction, but I am concerned that, in consultation with the industry organisation, but also with the insurers and with representatives from the construction industry, we should look at how we can still make some success in existing buildings in order to reduce the number of barn fires. The second point I would like to mention specifically for the short term is the stable climate. The Wakker Dier Foundation is very concerned about this and is also critical. It states that the climate in stables and abattoirs leaves something to be desired. Studies show that there are a lot of pleural infections in pigs, 17%. Is that correct and does the Minister consider such a high percentage acceptable? The Wakker Dier Foundation also states that the protocol developed by the Wageningen University to detect a poor stable climate is applied differently by the Dutch Food and War Authority. My question is whether it is true that the NVWA does not apply the size bar of Wageningen University consistently. What does the Minister think of that? Does the Minister consider that the size bar developed by Wageningen University should be appropriate for assessing the stable climate? The third point is the protection of animals, which has brought many points of improvement to the attention of Members of Parliament. It takes far too far to mention all that here. Animal protection is a constructive organisation that is trying in a realistic way to improve the life of animals in the agricultural sector. One of the points mentioned by the Animal Protection Committee is measures to reduce pests and stomach ulcers among pigs. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to enter into consultations with the Animal Protection Committee. Are you prepared to respond favourably to the proposals of the Animal Protection Committee? Mr. Chairman. Another organisation that draws attention to problems in the short term is the foundation Dier&Recht, which offered a petition this morning. Unfortunately, I couldn't be there. Mr De Groot also mentioned that we should actually ban the slaughter of highly pregnant animals. Unlike Mr De Groot, I do believe in rules. I think it was Mrs Ouwehand who said that this was very effective in Germany. My question to the Minister is very specific as to whether she is prepared to impose a ban. Mr. Chairman. In the event of interruption, I indicated that I believe that there should be limits to goat farming. The health risks are too great. The Labour Party believes that the precautionary principle should be properly applied: if there is only cause for doubt as to whether an activity is harmful to health, then you will not allow it. Provinces are taking concrete steps. For the Labour Party, differences between provinces are not acceptable. Is the Minister prepared to ban the re-establishment of goat farming nationwide and is she also prepared to implement a ban on enlargement? I have more questions, including written questions. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, in which the written questions I have submitted can be used as a guide. Mr. Chairman. Whatever came out this week is the disturbing news that much more pigs are being kept than allowed under the system of animal rights. At the same time, there is support in this Chamber for a reorganisation. But is it not mop-up with the crane open if many more animals are kept in violation of the animal rights permits? What is the Minister's view on this? Does it now have an impression of whether and to what extent this excess occurs? If there is excess, is she prepared to take steps? Finally, I shall be somewhat pleased to meet Mr Geurts. The Labour Party believes that farmers should be able to earn a decent living. If they can, they also have the investment capacity to meet the demands of society. So the Labour Party is in favour of a chain approach and believes that with animal welfare organisations, nature and environmental organisations and the agricultural sector a broad approach should be taken. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u91	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u92	I am trying to find some consistency in Mr Moorlag's speech. I agree with a lot, but he said: the PvdA believes in a chain approach to reach agreements on improving animal welfare. And you believe in more rules. What's it gonna be? Are we going to do a genuinely effective chain approach, for which D66 argues or is the PvdA going to set more rules in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u93	I don't think that's an or-or-story. My theory is that the government has three control tools: coffee, money and rules. Coffee stands for consultation, for our famous polder model, money is to subsidise and stimulate border behavior and financially punish unwanted behavior and lay down rules. Just plain territory and ban. That's a classic government task. I don't think you should start with that. But where problems really persist for years, as a government you have to set a clear standard. You have to say: it can no longer be done, we are just going to go into certain areas and ban certain things. It's not or-or.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u94	Good. So you first try to reach real effective agreements in chains and if you can't, keep your regulations behind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u95	I put it another way. Because we've been talking about a lot of things for years. There are many people and organisations who are rightly concerned about the quality and manner in which we keep animals. I think we should talk at the same time, but we should not shy away from laying down rules to eliminate excrement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u96	I would like to thank the PvdA Group for its support in achieving a good income model for farmers. I had already warned Mr Moorlag in an interruption at GroenLinks: I understand that the PvdA wants to support a breeding ban in the Netherlands. At least this was reflected in reports on the general consultation Brexit. Does Mr Moorlag share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr Geurts is asking a bit about the familiar road. We have had many debates in this Chamber. The Labour Party believes that we should reduce the size of livestock. We must stop stacking pigs and chickens to the sky in this country. We really need to stop doing that. But an abrupt ban on breeding, as Mr Geurts also knows, is not the way to bring about a clean-up of livestock farming. I have once again argued in favour of a gentle clean-up. You can. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who stop. You need to use the momentum now. I also understand that Mr Geurts has found a thread somewhere that he would like to pull.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u98	Well, if Mr Geurts has found a thread that he wants to pull, he would have far too few interruptions at the PvdA Group. But Mr Moorlag does not give a specific answer to my question. As a result of the general consultation on the Brexit, the PvdA wants to support the unholy proposal of the Party for Animals to reach a breeding ban following the Brexit. Is the story that the PvdA Group supports that? Yes or no? It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u99	My answer shows that the PvdA is in favour of a gentle clean-up of intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you. Then there is Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An animal must be more than just a production product. The intrinsic value of animals goes beyond the simple economic production value. That is a starting point for the SP. We see that these values come under great pressure when animals are part of an industrial mass production process, where production at the lowest possible cost is the norm and where, in practice, any additional investment in welfare or safety, which is already very limited, is turnover in loss and thus unwelcome or unfeasible, with unnecessary animal suffering as a consequence. I will talk specifically today about piglets mortality, about barn fires and about the issue of pig numbers. First, the persistent problem of high piglets mortality. This has been on the agenda of politics and the sector for ten years, but after these ten years we have to see that there is only a decline. Ten years ago, the mortality rate was just below 13%, but now it's well above that. The sector has not managed to reduce this percentage independently and therefore the government will have to intervene. I had the sense that even the rather infinite belief of the majority of this Chamber in the sector should be brought to an end by now, but I have noticed from the little debate with Mr De Groot that, unfortunately, this is not yet the case. We don't think so. A generally recognised cause of the increase in piglets mortality is that breeding programmes increase the number of piglets per litter, making piglets relatively weaker and more difficult to access breast milk. That is the result of a conscious breeding programme. If we want to reduce mortality, then the breeding will also have to go another way. However, I see practical objections to the legal limitation of the number of piglets per pitch; I say this honestly. I would therefore ask the Minister to examine another strategy. At farm level, the percentage of piglets' mortality can be kept on a multiannual basis. There are huge differences in the sector if you look at this per company. In the event of structuralally high mortality, intervention is required. I do not even mean automatically by fines and sanctions, but, for example, by making a mandatory plan in cooperation with a veterinarian to try to reduce mortality. Then you can always keep a stick behind the door. I'd like a response from the Minister. This also gives you the incentive to let animals throw as many piglets as possible out of the sector and may also be bred on some other things. Another possible route is to try to make piglets mortality play a role in the Better Life label, but then you get back to the sector. I see less in that, because then you will not get exports, for example, and that is a large part of the Dutch sector. But I can imagine that it can make some difference, so I want a response from the Minister as well. Then stole it. I'd like to say something positive first. It seems that 2018 is the first year in several years in which we don't break a record when it comes to the number of dead animals from barn fires. That's good news. It's still a lot of animals, but the fact that the rise seems to have been stopped is good news. Nor am I blind to the steps that have been taken. For example, periodic electricity control is a long-cherished wish of my party. It is good that it has finally been implemented. I have to admit that the speed with which it happens scares me, as well as joy. When I read that almost everything has already been checked, I wonder what came out of it. Is there any follow-up there? You can say "there's something wrong with your electricity," but it's the question if something happens next. Other things are very disappointing. We know that the compartmentalisation of electrical spaces in stables substantially reduces the risk of animal victims. The Minister states that, because of the high costs, she does not want to introduce this into stables. I would nevertheless like to ask her to reconsider this, at least for the poultry sector and the pig sector, where the number of animal victims is relatively high. Something similar applies to lightning rods. It is clear that lightning strikes play a role in this. I certainly do not want to say that a lightning rod is free, but compared to some other measures it is relatively cheap. Shouldn't we at least go to the big poultry stables and go to the duty of lightning rods, I ask the Minister. Otherwise, of course, I have a motion in my hand, because I do like to take care of things, Mr. De Groot. Mr. Chairman. Information to the sector is once again being used. I don't want to take that off as nonsense, because that's very important, but I think somewhere: if you haven't been to a meeting like this as a farmer, then you're not going anymore. Shouldn't you, for example, link that to the periodic electricity check? Shouldn't you say if you get a negative opinion, maybe you should go to such an information meeting? I don't want the same people in rooms listening to the same story all the time. 'Cause it's the people that don't go that you need. Then the report on Pigs in Emergency. I'm not the first to mention that here. They believe that more than 2 million illegal pigs in the Netherlands should be taken from the figures. Even if that's only half true, that's still a lot. We know from NVWA controls that the phenomenon "more animals than you can have" exists in practice. There's actually no one who denies that we at least have an administrative gap. The Germans see more imports from the Netherlands than the Dutch register exports to Germany. I do not know the Germans as a people who, when it comes to numbers, are extremely sloppy. So what's the Minister's explanation for that? That is not something that should remain above the sector. Whether it's true or not, there just needs to be clarity about those numbers. That is why I would specifically suggest that the NVWA, in cooperation with environmental services, with municipal inspectors, simply in the coming months will count all pigs in stables, and then compare the outcome with the environmental permits. Then we have a very clear picture of how many we have, then municipalities also know which stables are above their license, and then we can maintain it. Then it turns out we don't have a problem, we have a big problem or we have a bit of a problem, and then we can maintain it. Mr President, my last sentence: Pigs in Need explicitly calls for a strengthened I&R system, with individual pig registration and the different linking of stocks. Could the Minister comment on how much she sees in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u102	Thank you for your contribution. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u103	I have a question for Mr Futselaar about the Better Life label. I didn't quite understand what he meant. Did he mean to say that the Better Life label can only apply to stables where Dutch meat is produced? You could also, like GroenLinks, say: throughout the Netherlands there are only stables that meet the minimum requirements as required by the Better Life label.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u104	Let me be clear: I am in favour of imposing high legal requirements. But I'm also trying to pull something in. If you're a pig farmer, you might focus on the Better Life label, you might score in it as best you can, and you might adapt to it. But it may also be that you focus on the German market, where other requirements apply. I'm looking for a way to capture piglets' mortality somewhere, get a hook somewhere. If this can be done by means of a label, then so be it; I see more in legislation. I don't think the Better Life label is covering the whole of the Netherlands. Of course, it's not a government hallmark either. It's from, among other things, Animal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u105	But of course you could very well translate the demands made by the Animal Protection to the Better Life label into legal regulations. Then you've done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u106	I am very much in favour of that. But I suspect that Mr De Groot will say in a moment that he is not in favour of it, and then that majority will get in the way, I say to Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr Futselaar cites all kinds of good examples, for example about barn fires, which at least have been agreed with a number of relevant parties. So it is very good that you see that as well; interesting. You also have good suggestions to deal with this piglets mortality, without having to deal with things right away. As far as the Better Life label is concerned, even in the German market, such a better life mark is now emerging, making all kinds of additional demands on animal welfare. There is also an extra price for the farmer. Why do you have to take care of it legally if it works?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u108	Let's start with the fundamental discussion. I am sceptical about making agreements with the sector. I think that has become clear from both my debate with Mr De Groot and my own speech. Among other things, the piglets' mortality so far has shown that this is difficult. I also see that certain sectors, specifically the pig sector, have, in fact, been financially loss-making for many years. So the margins are just very small, whatever you want, left or right. For example, if you say 'we are going to make higher demands on this part of the sector', I think that a large part of the producers will say, 'Then we will go there, because that is what we can still do with our limited margins. That extra investment in the barn that is needed for that label, because I can't save it, because I've been losing for five years. So I'm going to have to do something." I like labels better than nothing; let that be clear. That's why I brought it up myself. But I think that if you hang on to that, the worst part of the sector will try to deliver elsewhere on the world market to prevent them from having to make that adjustment. That is why I think it is quite clearly a second best option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u109	The nice thing about labelling is that a product can also be placed on the market at an extra high price, and that the farmer is rewarded for these additional efforts. That's what other farmers are looking at. So it's got a sucking effect. The farmers who remain at the minimum will eventually disappear. So that's even more effective. But at least I welcome the examples you mention of things that are well regulated. I'll tell another party, they'll hear it from someone else. A nice speech, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u110	I fully agree with the last thing Mr De Groot said, namely that farmers who do not adapt will disappear in the long term. The problem is, it could take years. Part of that market simply suffers financial losses, multiannual and so on, but does not continue to make that investment, because there may be better times, because there is no alternative, because someone might take over the company, et cetera. But we cannot afford to wait 20 years for that part of the sector to fail on its own. I understand that the cabinet is going for a warm clean-up; that's nice. But that's gonna do something in a few places, and it's gonna keep going. I would therefore like to ask what kind of future image the Minister still has in a particular sector that is so financially under pressure and which, at the same time, is subject to such demands, both socially and here. How does the Minister see that? I say honestly: I don't think we're gonna make it with just a positive story about circular agriculture. You should also tell me how we're gonna fund something. I do not see that very positively at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u111	Thank you. We're heading for lunch, but first we're going to listen to Mrs. Lodders. Then I'll suspend lunch for half an hour, then we'll have the votes, then the deal, and then we'll listen to the minister. But first, Mrs Lodders has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Most people like to eat an egg at breakfast, a cheese sandwich or ham for lunch, or a piece of meat with the potatoes or pasta. What good is it then to know that we have farmers who produce this food, farmers who keep chickens, pigs and cows, partly for eggs and milk and partly for meat. These farmers stand up every day, seven days a week, for day and dew to produce our food. I'm so proud of that. Our farmers produce good quality food at an affordable price. They are hard-working farmers who practice their profession with great passion. Mr. Chairman. This week, as far as I am concerned, this is enhanced by the action that LTO started on social media: #farming animals. Farmers have hearts for their animals. They benefit from a healthy and well-kept herd like no other. It is their income, their work, their pension, their leisure activities and the place where they often live with the family. Farmers and other farms, such as the abattoirs and the farms processing meat, should take good care of these animals and respectfully. Fortunately, or perhaps I can say better: of course, this is generally good. This means that people from all over the world are looking at the Netherlands with admiration and the way in which our livestock farming takes place. Should incidents occur, or if animal welfare or animal health are structurally inadequate, the NVWA should act. It is not acceptable to mess with animals and to mess with strict requirements. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, it is also not acceptable for certain clubs to be able to put themselves above the law, I am thinking of organisations such as Rabbit in Emergency or Animal Rights. There are organisations that gain access to other people's property, make images illegally and sometimes manipulated, destroy, endanger animals or send death threats to a farmer. These are actions aimed at banning livestock farming from the Netherlands and stopping eating meat or animal products. These actions are also unheard of. People are very capable of making their own choices in what they eat. They don't need these clubs for that. Mr. Chairman. At the end of November, together with my colleague Antoinette Laan, I asked written questions to this Minister and her colleague at Justice. Unfortunately, those questions have not yet been answered. That is a pity for the balance in the debate. I look forward to answering the questions, but certainly also to the actions that the Ministers of Agriculture and Justice will take to stop this extremism. Surely the Minister agrees with the members of the VVD Group that actions that affect our farmers are unacceptable? I'd like to hear her reaction. And can the Minister comment on the need for people and entrepreneurs affected by these actions to report to the police and how to increase their willingness to report? Mr. Chairman. Another point where I want to stand still is the barn fires. Of course, it's terrible to have to watch you steal in flames. Firstly, it is terrible for the animals. But that's what it is for the farmer and the family: your business, sometimes from generation to generation, and life's work is gone from one moment to the next. And why don't you go rebuild that? The insurance will cover the construction costs, but the animals, the breeding line you can't get back. The causes of barn fires are diverse. It is good that the Minister and the sector are discussing awareness, risk sharing and good examples that work to reduce the number of barn fires, preferably to zero. But we also need to be realistic. In a digital world, in which automation can no longer be thought away, we are more at risk of short-circuiting. In the coalition agreement we agreed that agreements should be made with insurance companies on a periodic inspection of electricity. We also agreed that there should be more room for entrepreneurs to fight pests in stables. It's about vermin chewing on power lines. My question to the Minister is what progress has been made in addressing these issues, which can help to reduce barn fires. Mr. Chairman. Farmers love animals. These entrepreneurs have ensured that the Netherlands is a real agricultural country. We are relatively small in surface, but great in producing food and leading in innovation and sustainable production. Can you do better? Probably. Every day we work on new techniques, even more animal-friendly stables and an even higher quality of our food. It doesn't help to stand up to these farmers. No, let's stand side by side and give these farmers the space to undertake and innovate. Because, once again, farmers love animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u114	I am not surprised that the VVD, like the CDA, is throwing peaceful activism into one heap with extremism and that it is putting people who make a valuable contribution to our democracy in the corner and demonising them. My question is this. Mrs. Lodders is talking about strict rules. For example, in laying hens, an animal is checked by the holder no more than once a day. If a keeper sees that an animal is sick, he doesn't have to bring in the vet. He comes by once every two weeks. So either an animal that is dying is found by the holder and placed separately or by the holder itself killed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Can Mrs Lodders acknowledge that this is the reality of the legislation in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u115	No, I can't acknowledge that. And I don't recognize it either. I do a lot of work visits. I talk a lot to people who run a business, to veterinarians who visit these companies and to feed suppliers, who are also often present on the farm. I just don't recognize this. Once again, farmers love animals. I think that the image presented by Mrs Ouwehand is completely false. It would also be reprehensible for a farmer to enter the stable once a day. Mrs Ouwehand, that really is not the reality. Farmers stand up for day and day to go into that stable, to visit those animals and to see how their stable is. They don't do that once. You can't do that. We also eat two, three and maybe four times a day. That's what these animals do, and there's an entrepreneur there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u116	This is funny, because of course I asked the Minister earlier. How many times does a holder have to be in his stable? Once a day. The reaction to the footage was: yes, you film at night, while we take all the dead chickens out of those stables in the morning; so it's not fair that you film those chickens while they're dead in those stables, because we actually put them in the cadaver bin every morning. Legally speaking, what I just outlined is allowed. The NVWA controls 3% of the stables per year. That means that once every 33 years you could expect a checkup. This is the definition used by the AIVD of extremism: examples of non-violent but undemocratic means are hate-sowing, spreading fear and spreading disinformation. I think Mrs Lodders is the extremist himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u117	Once again, the image presented by Mrs Ouwehand is far from the truth. A farmer, an entrepreneur, does not need rules to oblige him to enter the stable three, four or five times or as often as necessary. This is how entrepreneurs, farmers, don't deal with their animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u118	I was in the last interruption talking about peaceful activism. Let me put that question to Mrs Lodders. Does Mrs Lodder mean peaceful activism, people who visit a company at night or people who enter the farmyard under false pretenses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u119	The examples mentioned by Mr Geurts are unacceptable. We don't accept it if someone walks into the house at night with me or with you. You don't do that in a stable full of animals, where you're dealing with all kinds of other risks. So you're gonna stay away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u120	Can Mrs Lodders imagine that you can also be very proud of the peasantry in the Netherlands and can respect all the efforts made by farmers, Mrs Lodders said that they stand up for the day and work hard, and can at the same time be critical of animal health and animal welfare in the Netherlands? Can Mrs Lodders also imagine that it is legitimate to argue in favour of improving this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u121	From Mr Moorlag's question, I would say that he is actually going to stand against the farmers. And I would so like to be standing after the farmers. The moment we say we can criticise animal welfare requirements... I would like to remind Mr Moorlag that we do not place such high demands on livestock farming anywhere in the world as we do in the Netherlands. I have already mentioned pig farming as an example in previous debates. A pig in a Dutch stable is really better off than a pig in Belgium, in Germany or anywhere else, because pigs have more space here. I would prefer the products we consume to be produced in the Netherlands, precisely because of the strict animal welfare requirements. Can I also share with Mr Moorlag the strict animal health requirements? Look at the antibiotic reduction that took place over the past year. Those are all very strict requirements. Stand next to that farmer, I call for Mr Moorlag instead of that farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u122	I think Mrs. Lodders is creating a false contradiction here. It may be that in many areas in the Netherlands it is better than abroad, but that does not mean that you can have ambitions to make the level even better and to advocate ending practices such as cutting tails and fileting teeth and choosing pigs and other excrements, and bringing diseases among animals to a low level. I think that there is really a false contradiction here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u123	I note that Mr Moorlag creates the contradiction by asking me that first question. Mr Moorlag suggests that nothing has happened in recent years. I'm allowed to run several portfolios in this room. I've been in this Chamber for eight years and I think that's a privilege. The sector we are talking about, the Dutch agriculture and horticulture, has been constantly developing in recent years like no other. Look what happened in the fields of animal welfare, adaptation of barn systems and innovations. Much has happened for animal welfare, animal health and so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mr President, this may be my last or penultimate interruption. Once again, I think Mrs Lodders is creating an artificial contradiction here. I have deep respect for the farmers in this country. They're just hard-working people trapped in the production system. That also leads to excrement. I think it is right that you should be allowed to deal with that politically. A number of groups have done so in different terms. To my liking, we do not need to pose as a foundation as a permanent applause for the current situation. I ask Mrs Lodders whether she shares with me that we should have ambitions to improve the situation of animals in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u125	I said what I said in the direction of Mr Moorlag. In my text I have just asked: can it be better? It can always be better, but look what has been done over the past few years. Look what's still on the agenda. Innovations are constantly being developed. The Netherlands is a world leader in animal welfare and animal health. I do not know if you have seen the VSO we discussed this morning about the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I also advocated that the Netherlands should lead the way in dealing with antibiotic resistance, because the Netherlands has taken very big steps in this area. Then it does not help to stand up to the farmer and say: it is still not far enough. No, I'm gonna stand next to the farmer and say we've done a lot in recent years. Wherever we can do better, we don't close our eyes. But let's also appreciate what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u126	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u127	To my liking and appreciation for the efforts of the sector and raising the bar can be very well combined. I think the contradiction created here is simply misplaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u128	Once again, I think Mr Moorlag has started creating the contradiction himself. I'm so sorry about that. Again, it may be better here and there, but let us also realize that it goes well in a lot of stables of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u129	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u130	At 1.10 p.m., we are going to vote. After that, we have the arrangement of work. Then we will listen to the Minister for the answers to the questions asked. Until then, I'm suspending for lunch. So I'll suspend until 1.10 p.m. and then we'll have votes.
