ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u1	We will continue with the debate on responsibility for the year 2018. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What would this Accountability debate have looked like and what results would we have talked about if there had not been a conservative but a progressive cabinet? That is the first question I have asked for today. Then the following things would be among what was achieved in 2018. First of all, the cabinet had really done something about the housing shortage. Investors who take over the cities, starters who don't get involved. Support start-ups, discourage investors. Reduce waiting lists in the social hire sector. Making living more affordable at all and investing in it. Investing in more housing. The first steps were taken if there had been a progressive cabinet. What would have happened is that there was a great deal of investment in the public sector: in better education, in lower workload for nurses and people working in the care sector, in the public sector in general. The country had also become more equal rather than unequal. The purchasing power of people with low and middle incomes would have increased more than the 0.3% that this cabinet has achieved. The VVD was also concerned about this morning. And the companies had also made a reasonable contribution. There was no legislative proposal that would reduce business costs by 4 billion. Just a few things I think, when I look at this debate, are: it could have been that way. The cabinet came up with six results from the past year when Minister Hoekstra offered the accountability. Mr Snels van GroenLinks has already commented. There was one result that I didn't see coming. I had not considered that this had also been achieved: the number of cycle paths has increased. I'd like to know all about it, because I just got a new bike. Where are they? Where can we find them? But are these really the top priorities this cabinet has chosen for 2018? If you look at the results of the past year, you can see that "be economical, relieve public debt and build buffers" seems like the motto of this cabinet. There's a lot of money left. The Minister of Finance seems to want to become the Colijn of the 21st century. Put that in addition to the analyses of the Monitor Brede Prosperity. What are the big needs in the Netherlands? What does the Netherlands need most, so that we can all move forward in the future? To be a nice country? Then I notice three things. First of all, the monitor says that the Netherlands really does not score well in the area of living in Europe. The affordability is under pressure and the waiting lists are very long. Why didn't that happen so much? Why did there come so few proposals last year, but also this year, to do something about it? The second thing that stands out is that the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom, at the lowest countries, when you look at sustainability and climate. Why doesn't that happen much more when we have talked a lot about it? A great deal of time has been wasted by the coalition, no doubt, but so little is happening! The third major theme that emerges is the dividing line in society. The inequality is increasing. This also has to do with the purchasing power of ordinary people, who are lagging behind, while corporate profits are increasing. Why does the Cabinet do so little about it? On these three themes, a progressive cabinet had made different choices than this conservative cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point in my speech. Those are the choices made by the cabinet in the budget and the Millions Note for 2018 and the promises made to the Chamber and to the people, because that is what we are talking about today. Those are different choices than a progressive cabinet would have made, but given those choices, the question is whether the cabinet will live up to the promises it made before 2018. I think the answer to that should be mostly no. The promises have not been fulfilled. D66 already talked about the underexhaustment of the century: 5.2 billion remained on the shelf. That term is technically correct, but that also means that 5.2 billion in public investments promised by the Cabinet..... press release following press release by Minister Grapperhaus of Justice and Security on extra agents, from Defence and Infrastructure Ministers on additional roads and additional defence investments, from the Minister of Education on additional education investments and from Minister De Jonge van Zorg on investment..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me give you a few examples. 300 million have remained on the shelf for the ggz, for mental health care, while the problems in psychiatry are enormous. Almost 300 million people remained in general care, while in the region there are a lot of problems in getting a good general practitioner. 300 million have remained in the district care and no one here in the Chamber will say that it is going very well in the district care and that money is not a problem there. How is that possible, I ask this cabinet. That's added up to nearly a billion in healthcare. How is that possible? How is it that money has remained in the rent allowance, while living is one of the biggest problems? How is it that in 2021 the cabinet promises to have 1,000 police officers and last year the number of police officers decreased by 674? How is that possible? How can infrastructure and defence have such a priority and that more than 2 billion is not invested? Then the cabinet says: of course, investment in infrastructure takes time. The question the PvdA then has to the cabinet is: did you know that in advance? It is not that you have yet to find out in the Millions' Note that building a road takes time and that you do not take that into account when you say "I'm giving 2 billion out next year"? Then why didn't you choose to put that money into maintenance? There's a lot of late maintenance. Bridges have even closed. The Court of Auditors is pointing this out to us. How come you don't make that happen? Mr. Chairman. So behind these €5.2 billion are these kinds of examples. I have selected a number of them, but there are others to mention. I do not think that is a sensible budgetary policy. I think that's a careless policy. Because the promises made by the cabinet in these areas are not being fulfilled. I would also like to make a general parliamentary point. That's not about opposition or coalition, it's about the information the Chamber has. I have always asked in the Navy's note on the then 3.7 billion u.a. that has now risen to 5.2 billion u.a. that has not been spent under the expenditure framework: what is incidental and what is structural? We're also co-legislators as a chamber. We can make amendments. It makes a lot of difference whether money is released once or whether it is structural. The cabinet has not so far provided any insight into which part of the 5.2 billion is structural and which part is incidental and I believe that the Chamber is entitled to do so. Then we can also assess where it's going. I would like to add a second point. The cabinet has therefore put all kinds of ambitious plans in the government agreement on care, on education, on nursing homes, on infrastructure and on defence. More proposals will be made in the Spring paper. I would like to know from the cabinet what part of those promises is not being fulfilled. In infrastructure and defence, it's obvious. That's where business goes on and the money goes with it. We can all see that. We can comment on that. The timing doesn't go well there, but the money remains available. Furthermore, the cabinet says that most of the 5.2 billion goes with it to other years. That is really not enough information for Parliament. We simply have a right to know which items should be entered in the budget. I'd like the Cabinet to give us that information, even today. Because you cannot simply say: we have a 1% budget standard, we will pass it on and then good afternoon. That is no way to provide the Chamber with information. Mr. Chairman. I also find the increase in the illegality of expenditure to be careless. There was a note about that in which the minister was quite a bit off with a cock-off-leading. I also understand that the Court of Auditors pulled the emergency brake. He said, "You're gonna get your ass kicked this year, but if you carry on like this, we're gonna give you an "F" next year. I think the Minister should take that seriously. Because it is not that everything is going quite well and that it has been approved again. No, years have improved legality, and now it is deteriorating. And the Court of Auditors says that if you carry on like this, you will not be given a positive statement next year. Then you must be on your feet, Minister. The cabinet has to do something about that. And then there is another 1.2 billion in the surcharges, where that money has not been properly absorbed. I don't want to overcharge that mistake, but she might be typical. There's real work to be done. Mr President, my third and final point concerns implementation. Several colleagues have already talked a lot about the problems in the Tax Administration and with ICT. I agree with the questions on this point. We are talking long enough today, so I will not double those questions. However, I would like to draw particular attention to one aspect of this implementation, namely the human dimension, the human approach to public services. My experience, not only during this cabinet, but in recent years, is the following. When people make a mistake, the government looks very suspiciously at them: they will be fraudsters, they must be punished and fined. There are high fines on exceeding a deadline. This often gets people into more trouble. The other way around, the government makes a mistake. We've seen it recently at the childcare allowance. There, benefits have been unjustly suspended. When the government makes a mistake, it sometimes takes years for people to get their rights. The Prime Minister said earlier in the week, in the debate on Groningen, that we actually allowed the procedures to be leading and above the results and what eventually happens. I actually see this problem in the broadest sense of the word in the government. How's the cabinet looking at that? And what proposals could it make to do justice to people who are getting into trouble, especially if it is due to a mistake by the government, and to treat them much more humanely? What could happen in order to be much less suspicious and much more confident? I'd like to make that call. Mr President, concluding. Of course, a progressive cabinet had made very different choices than a conservative cabinet. You heard that I would have liked the cabinet to invest much more in affordable housing, in a more equal society, in a fair contribution from companies, in preventing a huge climate disaster in the future. But also the choices made by the cabinet do not make it all true. I'll charge the Cabinet with that. You can let potting be leading, you can make the sovereign debt pay off, and make the investments in society secondary, but you can also live up to what you promised. I believe that the cabinet has not done so in the past year. There's 5.2 billion left on the shelf. I think it should do that this year. And that is going to be quite a challenge, because I heard the first extra spending on Defence and Infrastructure being announced, when the money was not spent there last year. So how credible is that? I've heard the first purchasing power vows again, but the VAT has been increased, so how credible is that? I believe that the cabinet has to abide by the commitments made in the budgets, the budgets submitted by the cabinet to the Chamber for which it has received a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. We'll look back in an accountant debate. Today I want to start by looking back a little bit further than 2018. Now that we are allowed to hold this debate in peace and freedom in the House of Democracy on this day, 75 years after D-Day, the decisive day in the liberation of Western Europe, I feel deep gratitude and great gratitude for the liberating efforts of so many young people, not rarely resulting in death. In short, on this 6th June, the deferred debate on accountability was considered mainly a thankfulness debate, although I will not be able to escape every critical point in my contribution today. Before I come to that, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and his staff for the large stack of annual reports and the Court of Auditors for the in-depth audit and the commendable observations and recommendations. Again, I noticed that many indicators are of a financial and macroeconomic nature. Fortunately since last year there has been the Monitor Brede Prosperity of the CBS, with attention not only for the here and now, but also for the elsewhere and later. But due to the secondary presentation, you might just lose sight of the urgency that we score so well in a number of areas of the here and now at the expense of that elsewhere and later. Earth Overshoot Day didn't fall on December 31st in 2018, but on August 1st, and for the Netherlands even on April 14th. This is partly due to our production and consumption methods. The Christian Union wants a society and a government that is committed to living off interest and not at the expense of the capital that has been lent to us. I expect the cabinet to take strong action to reduce our ecological footprint and to curb our impact on elsewhere and later. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. I will focus on three topics: modeling, making meters and people. In models because of the tension with reality, making meters because of the tension between maintenance of the existing and construction of the new, and in people because of course it always has to be about people. Let's start with the models. The government and planning agencies use models to make projections, to estimate, to predict. This usually happens with the most up-to-date insights based on proven effects. Good policies and sound public finances cannot be without models. But models also have a less pleasant side. You can abuse them. They are the easiest way to form reality to your own wishes. An example. If revolving funds have been in existence for years, while new money is being put in every year, then they are not revolving funds. Then it's a hidden grant pot. A revolver fund can be used as an accounting trick to spend more money without having to pay in advance according to the models and rules. No one who checks after the start-up whether the intended return is achieved within the fund. Can I assume that the Minister of Finance sits like a goat on the oat chest and monitors how revolver the revolving funds that the various ministries have in their custody are really? Let us not count ourselves rich if there is no return to be expected and do not turn an elephant into a mouse. Let's just call a non-revolver fund a grant. This example can be extended to include many other examples. Think about how youth policy is decentralised or how outdated calculation models of noise are calculated too low, while there are new and better models. It may be a tad cynical, but that way you can turn model reality into your own. We don't want that. It's not about something being modelly acceptable. The point is that policy is accepted in reality. Sometimes the government clings to a model when we feel on our clogs that it doesn't work that way. At that time, the model replaces reality. That might be even more dangerous. If a model replaces reality and if it is so trusted that we are really going to believe in politics here, we create a parallel reality and people outside this room really don't understand it anymore. Then we'll miss the connection. For example, everyone feels that investing more in science and innovation keeps this country prosperous and competitive in the long term. But if you want to invest more in innovation as a party in a bank transfer, you will be punished. The payback effects are not in those models. According to the models, investing in science doesn't pay off. So everyone feels on their clogs that the stimulation of electric driving has been very much over the top in recent years and that it has only pushed the business driver into bizarrely expensive cars. However, it still relies on the model that has been spitting out bad predictions year after year, while data on actual car sales are therefore the reality for use as input. Everyone, for example, feels that even further pumping up tax rebates aimed at labour market participation only leads to more jobs on a model basis. In reality, the labour market is overwhelmed and the freedom of choice for how you want to combine work and care within your family has disappeared for years. The incentive to work as a second earner has been so great for years that you leave it out of your head to stay home. It has become a necessity at the expense of freedom of choice and justice. I ask the rulers how this relates to model reality. Just three examples to show how far the politics of society can get off by modelish spreadsheet politics, if she only lets herself be ruled by models and thinks that models are reality. We have seen again this year how dangerous it is to make statements on the basis of the estimates, the promises, the models, such as 'almost everyone is making progress'. Well, it has to be said that the estimate was already clear that anything had to be countered in inflation or wage developments or the estimate could go into the trash. But still, based on the model result, the middle class finally seemed to get something out of it after a few decades of scurvy cuisine. For the time being, the reality is not yet easy for many in our country. It is, of course, still a bit coffeey watching how this is going to develop in the course of this year, but I am curious to see a reflection of the Minister of Finance on this and on my cri de coeur on reality and model. Metering, construction and maintenance. Maintenance is not sexy in politics. Politicians want to build new things. Keeping what your predecessor came up with, we'll talk about it tomorrow. However, it is extremely important what we have heard from the General Court, that delayed maintenance in the main waterway network by the end of 2018 was 414 million, on a budget for management and maintenance of less than 300 million. There are not only delays but also financial deficits. How's the cabinet gonna fix this? Is money transferred from construction to maintenance if necessary? Now that there's docking money going backwards, does maintenance money please go forward? In any case, I assume that the large number of obstacles to inland waterway transport is not acceptable to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u5	I just wanted to get back to that model reality, because I totally agree with that. I wonder if the Christian Union is going along with this. If it turns out that model reality is different from what we thought before in a model, then we have to change it and change it equally, both the model and the reality for people. I am referring in particular to the purchasing power, which is now disappointing for the citizens. There is, however, a windfall of 1.5 billion in the spring note. I do not see any repair in order to live up to that promise of 1.6% additional purchasing power, now that this model reality is not being met. Is the Christian Union prepared, just in anticipation of the Spring Note, to look at it, to adapt it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u6	I think we can learn a few things. You don't have to make promises like that before. Especially if your models, which are certainly made according to best judgment, are so close to zero that it can turn to something else at the slightest or least, you should not make such promises. We also know that we are drawing far too soon conclusions about how purchasing power is developing this year, also on the basis of models. Much remains to be done this year. There are still collective agreements to be concluded. We don't know all kinds of price developments yet. How purchasing power develops this year is not really known until we, as citizens, all fill out our tax returns, let's say before 1 May 2020. Both in advance and afterwards, we rely too much on models. Here in this Chamber we are often trapped in that model reality. I hope we can all get away from that. And I also hope, with the PVV, that we will be able to look back on a 2019 that has indeed fulfilled the promise that people would improve on it. We won't know that until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u7	But that makes people so critical and so cynical, to talk to the CDA, about politics. In 2017 the tower was blown high: 1% and everyone will feel it. But it was 0.3 and half of the Netherlands went backwards, in retrospect. Last year it was the same: 0,6 we would improve on it, but it turns out to be 0.3 and a third of the Netherlands is declining on it. This year, the same thing is threatening to happen again. If you see that inflation is not 2.3 but 2.9 that is predicted again now........................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Christian Union and the other coalition parties refuse to take interim burden measures. And next year we'll be back here. That's my twelfth accounting debate. Every year I stand here with "the promised purchasing power has not been achieved." That makes people cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u8	In fact, I agree entirely with the honourable Member that we should get rid of this kind of numeral fetishism. I also spoke to people who did get a purchasing power improvement that was exactly what the cabinet predicted: 0.3%. And then they said, "What, is 0.3% but so much? That's actually very disappointing," whereas that was exactly in line with the predictions. The number fetishism with which this country is run contributes to the cynicism with which people look at politics. I think we should talk more about what country we want to be and how we can make things better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u9	That's not what I meant. I meant that this cabinet and the Christian Union have said to everyone in the Netherlands: "You are really going to feel that things are going better economically this year. Every Dutchman in the wallet is going to feel that things are getting better economically. They paid for the crisis, and now they're gonna feel it." But they're not gonna feel anything! Well, then you can dive behind grade fetishism, but I want people in their pockets to feel that things are getting better economically. Not only this finance minister and not only the companies, but also the citizens of this country deserve additional purchasing power. My question to the Christian Union is: will it go along with repairing it in the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u10	I fully agree with the honourable Member that people should feel it. Indeed, the cabinet is taking measures to make the ordinary working people, the middle class, come out better. We can't draw any conclusions if we're not even halfway through the year. There's gonna be a lot going on this year. I am convinced that this can still be done, but we really need to make sure that we do not make any promises in advance that we cannot deliver. We need to get rid of the number fetishism and ensure that people simply have hope for a better future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Jan van der Hejonstraat (Jan van der Hejonstraat) was spooked by a gas explosion a few kilometers from here on 27 January. Three homes were completely blown out of the street. There were no deaths, but there were ten wounded. The cause was a 12 centimeter crack in the cast iron gas pipeline. Here, too, it is a question of maintenance. We read in the newspaper this morning that we still have 3,830 kilometers of this kind of dangerous gas lines. Here too the story is: the execution of the replacement assignment is lagging behind what is needed. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? The same applies to ICT. The General Court and Mr Snels have already spoken wisely about this. It is painful that even our highly qualified General Court cannot get a grip on what the government spends on maintaining ICT. Lack of a standardised accounting method seems to be the basis for this. Can the Minister now explain clearly why, according to the cabinet, one generic framework for governance, risk and compliance would not be a solution? And what about the exploration towards other ways to ensure that the responsibility for the maintenance of ICT systems is standardised? This is referred to in the cabinet response. Are we going to read in the next state that concrete agreements have been made about this? Is it conceivable that non-crucial ICT projects will temporarily go into the refrigerator until the maintenance of existing systems is in order? Is it possible to extend the powers of BIT as an ICT watchdog to research issues of ICT projects, I ask the Minister of the Interior. In that case, too, the call can be made in good time. Mr. Chairman. Finally, people. 'Cause it's about people. Today, I would like to focus on staff: the tension between enough money and too few people. Mr Nijboer mentioned this. The General Court notes that where this cabinet decided to invest, it often fails to actually spend the extra money. Where it was decided not to spend any extra money, the services of the Empire sometimes deteriorated. The Court of Auditors calls on the cabinet to pursue strategic personnel policy, and the cabinet hardly goes into that. With the police and the Defense Department, the outflow is even greater than the influx of new people, despite all the extra money. Mr Nijboer also mentioned this. When you realize the large numbers involved in the care, education and tax administration, care is in place for those in need who deserve good care, for children who deserve good education and for citizens and businesses who deserve well-controlled tax attacks. With Mr Nijboer I am curious about the reaction of the rulers to this. How do they tackle this gauntlet of the General Court? Mr. Chairman. On D-day, I want to end up with DOD. The readiness of the defence equipment has still not been restored, even though billions more have been added. The Court warns against a vicious circle. There are too few maintenance staff and there are too few engineers and buyers, so the recovery cannot be achieved. At the same time, the poor state in which our defense is providing a drain of personnel. See here the vicious circle the Court of Auditors warns against. How is the cabinet going to break this circle? Of course, it doesn't help if Defence doesn't even manage to reach an acceptable collective agreement with the unions. It is irresponsible for this situation in the defence sector to continue to be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u13	I have heard the whole contribution of Mr Bruins, a fine contribution, in which I also heard him say something about the maintenance of our waterways, assuming that this also applies to our roads. Now I think he made the suggestion that money for the construction of new projects should be transferred to maintenance. Is that true and, if so, what construction projects are we going to stop? For example, node Hoevelaken or Kornwerderzand? Actually, I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u14	If you do a cash slide, where projects are pushed backwards and are carried out later because people simply don't manage with contracting and staff, then my question is whether you can put a cash slide forward for maintenance. So I don't want to let projects go on, but when I see that money is being spent later, you can ask yourself if you can't bring up this much needed maintenance, for example, where we can see that the cast iron gas pipes are on fire, where the table of contents is so much larger and so underestimated, before you start thinking about building even more infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u15	If we do this, I think we should end projects eventually. Is Mr. Bruins, apart from those construction projects, in for extra money for maintenance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u16	I do not yet see that projects should be stopped when a cash slide goes one way or the other. I can see right now that we have more money than we can start projects in terms of human power. That's really bad, actually. There was no shortage of money in this cabinet.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is actually a much bigger problem in the Netherlands. Where are our professionals? We need them to actually spend all that money we have in this booming economy on investments that are good for society, that are good for the public sector and that are good for the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u18	Thank you, Mr President. First, a compliment to Mr Bruins for the elegant way in which he describes that it must be over with numeral fetishism. We share that conclusion, but he managed to put it into words as well. Mr. Chairman. The President of the General Court, Arno Visser, was very critical in the presentation of the 2018 audit. He said, if we don't have money for maintenance for 15 years, you'll get the bill presented once. The bill for those cuts is coming up now. According to Mr Visser, wrong decisions from the past explain problems that we face today. Mr. Chairman. In the same way, decisions we make today will explain things that will go wrong in the future. That is also exactly what the Monitor Brede Prosperity indicates. The Monitor Brede Prosperity, the dashboard that tells us how things are going to be, how things are going to be later and how things are going to be elsewhere due to our lifestyle, indicates that in the here and now, in a material sense, and apart from nature, it is generally good, but that it is not sustainable for it later and elsewhere. At first glance, that may seem so, but those who study the monitor carefully for later see that the main indicators, which should have been on green for a long time, do not. These are in particular cumulative CO emissions and the Living Planet Index. Then you see that economic growth is not the solution, but has become the problem. After all, the monitor states: "The most recent developments regarding current broad prosperity are probably not separate from the strong economic growth of recent years." Further on, the monitor states: "The Dutch greenhouse gas footprint increased in 2018." Dutch society also has a different effect on the rest of the world, as presented in the Monitor Brede Welvaart for elsewhere. It says very diplomatically: "The Netherlands deals relatively much with poor countries, which leads to income there." So here we increase the footprint and there we draw out the natural sources, with a tissue for bleeding in the form of some economic growth. Mr. Chairman. Economic growth is not the solution, it is the problem. That was the conclusion last year, and that is the conclusion again this year. It's not a quiz, but it might be nice to know that the last year that the broad prosperity was balanced, the moment that our prosperity from then was in balance with prosperity elsewhere and later, according to the CBS 1960. From that moment on, prosperity for us was growing here, but this was at the expense of natural resources in other places. Mr. Chairman. The British economist Kate Raworth, who came to the Chamber at the invitation of the Party for Animals in 2018, gave us all an enlightening lesson economy, brilliant in all its simplicity. An economy is meant to give humans and animals the necessary conditions to live a good life, while that same economy does not exceed planetary limits. She calls it the doughnut economy. The inner ring of that doughnut is the necessary social conditions. The outer ring are the planetary limits. Both the Monitor Brede Prosperity and Kate Raworth show that we have to make the transition from egocentral to ecocentral thinking because our earth cannot carry human activity otherwise, and that growth is the problem. Mr. Chairman. With the foregoing in mind, the Prime Minister should account for his climate policy, which still does not lead to a proportional reduction in the temperature increase of 1.5 ̊C. I would like a response from the Prime Minister when his climate policy does offer this prospect and whether he has already realised that the difference between 1.5 C and 2 C is significant. According to the Prime Minister, we have 31 years for our climate action. To be honest, I find it disgusting that a party that claims that it does not want to pass on debts to future generations, when it does do so when it comes to climate action. And climate change due to an increase of 2 ̊C is disastrous for future generations, because you can hardly go back from 2 ̊C to 3 ̊C. It is also very logical that it is particularly the young people who are taking action. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister also has to answer for the animals, because the Dutch state allows an enormous amount of animal suffering. Legislation that should protect animals suddenly has many, many exceptions when it comes to animals that are bred, used and killed for meat, eggs and dairy. If there are practices in livestock farming which are not allowed in spite of completely inadequate laws, there is little or no maintenance. In the first place, the chance of getting caught is already nil, the NVWA only reaches 2% of livestock farms annually, and if NVWA inspectors actually observe practices that are not legally permitted, it is not maintained. Recently RTL News showed that this is always the order of the day. In fact, team leaders of the NVWA even order inspectors to report fewer violations. Because that's even hard to get to the company! Animals in the Dutch industry are indiscreet. Ten years ago, the Prime Minister, President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) said that he felt that the way we stack pigs was also inhumane. Question: Can the Prime Minister now look at us with a dry eye and say that things are going well in the livestock industry? I'd like a response. Speaking of agriculture, the Minister for Finance must also account for the failure of European income support for Dutch farmers. He'll be happy to do the same, and I'll tell you why. He said at the Humboldt lecture in Berlin on 7 May that the 21st century requires us to change our priorities. This means that resources must be released by, among other things, cutting European agricultural subsidies. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance is served at his beck and call. The Court of Auditors has shown that income support for Dutch farmers has failed. One fifth of farmers earn less than the minimum wage despite the aid and one third of farmers earn more than twice as much as the aid. What action does the Minister of Finance intend to take on his own words? As Minister of Finance, he is responsible for today's financial choices. And if he really thinks that European agricultural subsidies are not suitable for the 21st century, he has a heavy responsibility to act on them. I'd like an answer. In addition, a question to the Prime Minister. The European Commission has managed to keep an unpleasant study on the negative effects of the common agricultural policy and on greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture under review for more than six months and even over the European elections. Didn't the Prime Minister think that was undesirable? And is the Prime Minister prepared to call the European Commission to account for this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Monitor Brede Prosperity clearly shows that with our limited horizons on the here and now we are making the wrong decisions, while we can do otherwise. Examples of the change in society are to be found. Think, for example, of the awareness about the impact of flies, or the impetuous advance of meat substitutes. Or the great success within the government of the message "carnivore, pass it on," where the vegetarian choice is standard. Three weeks ago, the Amsterdam city council decided to do so. Or other low-hanging fruit, such as a simple adjustment of the youngtimer scheme for electric cars that starts after five years instead of the usual fifteen years. I'm rounding up. On 10 May, Europe had already used up the raw materials it had available for 2019 as a whole. That was Europe Overshoot Day, Mr Bruins also referred to it. And the fifth IPCC report on the climate crisis and the IPBES on the biodiversity crisis show that we are witnessing a massive destruction of our living environment, in the illusion that growth could be a solution. Hans Stegeman, head of Triodos' research and investment strategy, did not sigh for nothing recently: "If only we were an illusion poorer, namely the illusion that growth is the solution." This illusion may be the hardest to deal with if this large-scale destruction of the environment becomes a crime against peace, which is covered by the Rome Statute. What is the Minister's position on such an idea? Mr. Chairman. As Churchill, and of course in English, said, "Never waste a good crisis." But first you have to acknowledge that it is a crisis and also recognise that it is a crisis. Climate and biodiversity emergencies have now been declared in the UK, Ireland and several cities around the world. Yesterday we made the same appeal to the Chamber and today we will table a motion for that. It is the recognition of the state in which the world is situated. It is the reason why the Animal Party recently announced the Climate Act 1.5 and it is the recognition of the need to reduce our ecological footprint. Mr President, one more paragraph and I will conclude, but I also see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u19	Were you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u20	That's what I'm saying. One more paragraph, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u21	Well, I guess you'd better do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u22	Isn't that right? Then that's what we'll do. Mr. Chairman. That is why we wholeheartedly support the call of the Platform Sustainable and Solidaire Economy on behalf of 31 organisations, including the FNV and the Council of Churches, for an investigation into how we can at least halve the Dutch footprint before 2030 and not save sacred houses. Think of it as paying the back account to prevent us from paying the future account at all. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u23	Thank you. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u24	It is important that we understand exactly what Mr Van Raan means by a climate emergency. Because I am one of the youngest Members of Parliament, so I also think it is important, of course, that we address the problems of climate change quickly. But it is also important that we respect people's rights and also ensure that everyone can pay it and the like. But a state of emergency is announced when it is necessary that you do not respect those rights for a while, because that is then necessary for security, for example. What rights does Mr Van Raan want to temporarily move away from tackling climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u25	I think that's a good question. Of course, we've had something like that under the emergency bill for the Brexit. I remember when we built together with the SP. Article X gave far-reaching powers if everything collapsed and if the Brexit would lead to emergency measures unexpectedly. We then moved together, because we did not think it was right that democratic principles were being undermined. That is also the case here. The importance of declaring a state of emergency in this case, whether it is about the climate or the biodiversity crisis, is to make it clear that we all feel that there is something different than climate change. So it's mainly about sending a signal. Call it a symbolic signal, but it is very important, as well as some people think the flag is very important, that we all act as if it is a state of emergency, because we need to intervene. Today again in this debate, with all due respect for all the input, we do not really get the impression that the world has a very big problem. I still hear the Prime Minister say on CNN in beautiful English that there is no alternative and that we must act now. If we treat it at the same time as one of the problems we have to solve, then we are not going to get there. I do not know if you were there, but yesterday we were talking about governance, about the rules with which we are going to implement the climate agreement together. And then Professor Rotmans said something great, too. He said: this is exactly what happens if you do not acknowledge that it is a crisis. 20 or 30 years ago it could have been very good, a little poldering, but we don't have that time anymore. The announcement of a state of emergency, in this case about the climate and the biodiversity crisis, is intended to signal that there is something different than an ordinary problem that we have to tackle. We are not going to take away democratic fundamental rights; you do not have to worry about them. I hope, however, that you will support the motion. More than 600 municipalities and 13 countries have already declared this climate emergency and biodiversity distress. We also have questions about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u26	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u27	I want to take away the concerns of Mr Alkaya. We've asked questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u28	What's the answer to the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u29	That's coming up now. This was a run-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u30	A runaway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u31	Well, a run, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u32	Okay, the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u33	It is precisely for these reasons that we have asked questions to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. What exactly would happen if we declared that economic emergency? What happens if we take over as a room? I will also send you the answers. The Minister for Economic Affairs confirms that it mainly has a signal function, a very important signal function, but that no fundamental rights of citizens are currently being taken away. I am not, of course, talking about the Minister's answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u34	That is a very long answer, but I particularly draw the conclusion that it is symbolic and that, fortunately, we have just as much attention to people being taken away and that they can pay for it. We are people's representatives here. We can just make rules. Not only can we take symbolic measures, but we can also take real measures. It is frustrating that we have a free right-wing parliament and that we cannot therefore tackle the fossil industry and the polluting industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u35	We can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u36	I do not know whether this kind of symbolic measures will help, but I look forward to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u37	I'd like to respond to this, but I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u38	That's right. It was just a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u39	I would just like to make it clear that Mr Van Raan is tabling a motion. It's a rhetorical frame. I can see something in that. Doesn't it have any legal or administrative consequences, or any consequences? That seems useful to me to know for a possible assessment of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u40	I would almost like to make the comparison with the Climate Law, which GroenLinks submitted. That is indeed a symbolic story, and that is a law without any teeth. This is an appeal to change our language, to realise that we are really in a crisis and to act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u41	I believe that the Climate Law is precisely a sign that we are acting to prevent the climate crisis from being resolved in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u42	Okay. But that debate has already been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u43	So I do not quite understand Mr Van Raan's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS. Mr. Van Rooijen, is this your last performance today? They're all coming to the Interrupt Microphone! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't have a maiden speech two years ago because I had it long ago. But I do have a farewell speech today. Here I am again. Thank you for your lovely words. Mr. Chairman. The books for 2018 are closed. The Dutch government is including the tax claim there we're going again about 400 billion on pension assets probably the richest government in the euro area. I would, of course, like to congratulate the Minister on this result, but I also congratulate others, namely the citizens and businesses in our country. Together they raised the surplus of nearly 12 billion. Since 2012, collective burdens have increased by 3 percentage points, equivalent to EUR 24 billion higher taxes. The surplus should therefore not be surprised. It would be amazing if it hadn't been there. The other side of the coin of higher burdens and rising surpluses is, of course, the decline in purchasing power for years. In 2017 it was already very disappointing, in 2018 the weather was very disappointing and again this year we see the same pattern happening. Even the Central Planning Office didn't get past this. It re-examines the purchasing power estimate. Yeah, well, that doesn't mean anything. "That's just disappointing," said Daniel van Vuuren, head of public finances of the Central Planning Bureau recently against De Telegraaf. "Inflation seems to be higher before 2019 than we previously thought. We're going to look at that again in the next estimate." A few months ago, our critical questions about purchasing power figures for this year were answered in a casual manner, but now they are going to look at them again. Now that the cabinet is working on the AOW-age, the Central Planning Office comes to the aid of the established order with spontaneous sustainability billions. This makes the Central Planning Bureau vulnerable: sustainability at the command of ongoing negotiations. It looks like the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre (WODC): science on demand. I think there's more financial space in the longer term, but you can't pull it out when it suits you. 50PLUS is also always calculating and is entitled to the latest information. The reduction in the AOW age will be much more financially viable in the longer term with a windfall of 4 billion. Of course, we want to know that from 50PLUS immediately. Raising the AOW age was a political choice. Lowering the AOW age is equally a political choice. Mr. Chairman. It all points to the fact that this year nothing has been achieved about the beautiful purchasing power predictions, not for workers, not for benefit recipients and again not for pensioners. For pensioners, the downfall in 2018 was even double the disappointment of the average citizen. But that doesn't bother the cabinet. On the contrary. This battery of unfulfilled purchasing power predictions was not the beginning and will not be the end of the poison cup for pensioners. That poison cup must of course be completely empty, including the end of the pension system as we have known it for 40 years. It hurts to talk about it just today on my last Chamber day, one day after the appearance of a provisional pension scheme: provisional pension agreement. Many sacrifices have been made to maintain the pension system. For ten years, there has been no indexing. As a result, pensions have become de facto 20% lower. This applies to everyone, from pensioners to young workers. This missed indexing for young and old will never be overtaken. Several funds that were relatively poor have also had to cut short and even the retirement age has been raised as a blow, but it was not allowed to benefit. Nothing but nothing helps a capital-covered system against the scorched earth as a result of risk-free interest rates. On the basis of this national interest rate canard, therefore, there is a pension agreement, an agreement that shines away from it. Today we are experiencing the lowest ten-year interest rate ever in the Netherlands: minus 0.05%. The state gets the present. Security in pensions is being abolished, a security which, incidentally, never existed. For convenience, the cabinet ignores the fact that millions of people participate in a pension fund that does not have any buffers at all. They struggle with a coverage level just above or below 100%. It's just bullshit for this huge group that the discounts are off the track. It should be feared that many large pension funds, the big four in particular, will have to be cut down immediately, now, at the end of the year or at the end of next year, and also once the new system has been introduced. At the moment, the coverage rate of four large funds is below 100%, which means that they will have to be cut unconditionally and definitively at the end of the year and at the end of next year. I refer in particular to the metal at the end of the year. The two metal funds represent 2 million people, of whom 1.5 million are working and only 0.5 million are retired. They fear a 10% discount. Mr. Chairman. The employers are satisfied with this agreement. The premiums remain stable. They will no longer have to contribute to the maintenance of an additional 25%, but the premium will have to be covered. This is going to be a massive and extremely vulnerable renovation. In the case of an interest rate of 1%, a premium should be roughly doubled or the structure, the structure for the workers, should be halved. That is not going to happen, of course, and that would be a disaster for the workers, but until that is resolved, workers will continue to pay too little contribution compared to the pension they are building up, and that will be paid back by the pensioners. With this pension agreement, the Netherlands remains the country with the largest pension assets and with the lowest calculation rate in the world. The fact that the result is therefore already very shaky should not surprise anyone. All in all, there are more minions than pluses to be found in the draft agreement. The balance sheet is negative for 50PLUS. Solving the average problem is a plan, but the funding is not yet clear to me. Somewhere between 60 and 100 billion must be found. In any case, this is at the expense of the level of coverage of at least 4%, with all the consequences. I would like to say: first, give full clarity about the costs and the cover of those 60 to 100 billion before introducing them. It would have been even better to think first and not to decide until you know for sure what the consequences are. Then there is a specific problem with Europe. The question is whether the agreement still fits in with the European rules which gave the Netherlands an exception and give competition law for our pensions. Next thing you know, you solve a non-existent problem with a hugely complicated new build-up and you get the horse of Troy from an organized competition between insurance companies and pension funds. Mr. Chairman. The calculation rate remains cast in concrete. It's just a matter of faith. So what is the Dijsselbloem Commission doing? If yesterday in the agreement it was agreed that the premium should cover costs, then the interest on the premium is simply due to short-term and long-term interest rates. What happens to long-term interest rates for pension funds? Will it finally be aligned with the insurers or will we not get any advice from that committee for a long time? Mr. Chairman. I will be surprised if the FNV members vote for this agreement by a majority in the next few weeks. Suppose, as in the last ten years, the new system produces a 6% return, for example, then it takes ten years for that 6% return to be reflected in an increase in pensions. It's going very slowly. Moreover, this system was not so badly chosen in itself, because if it had existed in the last ten years, pensions would have been substantially increased on the basis of the actual rate of return of the last ten years, 7% each year. But if we only start after ten relatively good stock market years, then such a positive outcome for the future is far away and also very uncertain. I would say: trade unionists, count your buttons; still discounts and no indexation, especially because of that 60 billion claim. And the AOW age for young people in the new proposals still goes to almost 70 years, and we do not think that this is a wink. Mr. Chairman. It is not just the government that needs to prepare for bad times; it must also enable citizens to do so. The purchasing power in general is not an achievement of this cabinet. The burden burden is a fact, but precisely because it has risen so rapidly. The draft pension agreement builds on the extreme risk-avoiding interest rate vision that has been adopted in the Netherlands, but which is applied only as strictly when it comes to pensions: an accounting rate of 1%. Climate investment has a social discount rate of 3%. All right, everybody, listen up! Pensions 1%. Climate 3%. Power load in box 3: 5.5%. The pension contributions for young people are calculated at a rate of 2.8% and according to Capital in the 21st century of the French economist Thomas Piketty, all these interest rates are a gross underestimate of the actual return on capital. Mr President, I am almost at the end. The IRS. In the annual financial report for 2018, very little was said about the public authority that makes all these fine figures possible for 2018: the Tax Administration, five years ago the best public service, with high international standing. But under Rutte I, II and III this cork on which everything floats has lost its famous reputation. I hold Rutte responsible for that. This should have been chiefsache for years. The growing number of deficiencies identified by the Court of Auditors in 2018 is, of course, yet another humiliation for the service in conjunction with the policy holiday requested by the Secretary of State. Mr President, when you read my farewell letter you left a passage and now leave it to me to say it here: on 28 May, the Secretary of State stuck a letter on the door of the Tax Administration 'closed because of renovation, can still pay'. How could it have come to this? I will, of course, continue to follow this dossier intensively, I can assure you. Finally, Defense. A few rules, Mr. Chairman. It is today the commemoration of D-Day, also mentioned by others, 75 years ago. Our liberators are coming to visit, but our current defense personnel still have to do it without a proper collective agreement. This stalemate really needs to be broken. They deserve maximum appreciation. The fact that in the spring note the cabinet tried to ship our NATO associates with a tip of only 160 million is an insult which we can correct today. 50PLUS therefore proposes to abolish the RVU fine for Defense, releasing 150 to 175 million for our armed forces. I shall table a motion on this subject in the second term. Mr President, thank you for your leniency and apology for the overrun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u47	It's that this is your last day. But I promised not to read your text so you could do it yourself. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u48	I would like to give myself the honour and pleasure of interrupting the farewell speech of Mr Van Rooijen. I wanted to ask him if he'd like to use the next four and a half hours...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u49	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u50	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, you're in charge of timing. Then let me ask the question. How would Mr Van Rooijen want to make a pension deal if he first sought the EUR 60 to 100 billion needed to compensate for the abolition of the average systematiek for 40s, 50s, knowing that there are so many pension funds that all have different characteristics, some of which already work with averages and others do not? This must be negotiated first by pension fund, and in this case employers and employees have a responsibility rather than the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u51	Thank you for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to explain that. The essence of my speech was... You're talking about the end of the puzzle. The funds must see how this can be done. My speech, our speech, is this. We should not have taken a decision on abolishing the average premium, which is going to cost 60 to perhaps 100 billion, to say now: we have made that decision, we are throwing it over the fence with the pension funds and they will have to find out further. Yesterday's letter also shows that lids are going to be difficult. There will be a steering group to figure all this out, and if they don't figure it out, it will even claim the eventual failure of the final agreement, because everything is linked together, AOW and pension system. My thesis was and is: had looked in advance how to solve the problem of this 60 billion claim for the workers, young and old, and only do it when you are sure that you have that solution and that you can put the consequences of it responsibly somewhere where that can be done responsibly. Now that decision has been taken, not by pension funds, because it is a political decision, and pension funds are sitting with the fried pears. There are funds, especially the weaker brothers, the big funds, for example the metal, which say: we simply cannot afford that; that is going to cost us 6 billion extra with a lower level of coverage and so on. The workers among themselves have this problem to solve. Pensioners have paid 40 years, especially in the past mostly with the same employer, eventually the correct contribution over the whole 40 years. In that case, it is not the case that the 60 billion will be transferred to pension funds, most of which pensioners will have to bear and pay. They're gonna have to wear it because they're gonna feel it in the wallet right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u53	Mr. Chairman. I learned something today, President, that I can put this thing, the chair, down myself. That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u54	Yes, very handsome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u55	He doesn't usually have to go upstairs with me. Mr. Chairman. We are on our way to Pentecost, the feast of the Holy Spirit. For many people this speaks less to the imagination than Christmas and Easter, but for a Christian the cycle is not complete without Pentecost. I think that is the parallel to today's debate. For the Accountability debate may also appeal to many people less than Prinsjesdag, the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews, but for a politician the cycle is not complete without Accountability Day. That is why it is very nice that we are standing here today. The Netherlands is doing well. I have heard that from several people and we see it around us, but there is also a lot that goes less if I listen like that today. Still. When you look, you see that the Netherlands is doing well. The economy is growing by 2.7% in 2018, household investment and consumption are increasing and unemployment has fallen to 3.8% in the last year. In this respect, the Netherlands is doing well in figures. The question is whether all Dutch are doing well. I speak to a lot of people, a lot of people, who are very good in material terms. I'm glad you did. There are a lot of Dutch people who can do well, but they are also a group of Dutch people with whom things are not as good and we should not close our eyes to that. They are people who feel that they are farming backwards even in these economically good times. In my contribution two weeks ago I had something about pensioners, but there seems to be something going in the right direction. At the same time, you can also see the downside of the medal, becausezzp'ers, who so far had the prospect that they did not have to take out compulsory disability insurance, now see that coming on their own. So you can see: what is good for one person may be less good for the other. We are also talking about the students, who see a threatening student debt coming towards them, housing seekers, who, if they find a home that is expensive anyway, or a earners and single people, who are still punished by high taxes in order to get through the cabinet's emancipation agenda. We are talking about the entrepreneur and the households who see the bill of the climate agreement coming up to exactly how high it is, of course, we still have to establish with each other, and I think we should do so as soon as possible, and also with the police, for example, where there are major staffing problems, with the result that we still have no more, but less blue on the street. When I put my ear to my ears in society, there is certainly not everyone the feeling that the Dutchman is doing well. Of course, I could linger in these sentiments, but that does not fit in with the SGP and that does not suit me either. We are a party that has been trying for over 100 years to make a positive contribution to Dutch society and that is why I want to take a few concrete points in the head. That starts with financial solidity, because we have been committed to this for over 100 years, and we will continue to do so in the future. As public debt has fallen over the past year, the likelihood of fluctuations in the economy is simply less than it was a year ago, but we must also note that we are still not on the verge of the past crisis. As far as the SGP is concerned, the debt ratio is therefore simply being further reduced. We have to fix the roof when the sun shines. A sound financial system is and remains crucial. The fact that the number of deficiencies has increased last year is therefore of concern to the SGP. In fact, the Court of Auditors warns that this could jeopardise the legality of expenditure. My question to the Minister for Finance is how to prevent it from becoming a reality in the future. How can this legitimacy remain a fact? Then the investment in Defense. As a defence party, the SGP is pleased that substantial money was added in 2018 and that the percentage of gross domestic product spent on Defence increased to 1.26%. That's a good thing. But that does mean that you can already feel him coming, that we are still below that NATO standard and that we really have a way forward with that. There's still a lot to be done with the investment in the Defense Department. Several spokesmen have already said that there is under-utilisation. There are many arguments for this, such as the fact that actual expenditure on investment is in the future. That's just true, but I think that's part of the story right now. I am very curious to see what the Minister of Finance is thinking about that. The SGP is also pleased that the Cabinet, like the Court of Auditors, sees the value of the Defence Budget Fund. This fund provides more insight into the long-term purchase and operation costs of weapon systems and, above all, their effectiveness. Also, investments in equipment, IT and real estate can be better planned and managed on a multiannual basis. But the Court of Auditors is also critical, and so is the SGP. Because a budget fund does not necessarily provide sufficient insight into the total expenditure on equipment over the lifetime. And the Chamber must remain well informed. I would urge the Minister to include this feedback in the final design of the fund. Mr. Chairman. As I said at the beginning of my contribution, the Netherlands is doing well. But I would like to make one more important comment. In the Monitor Brede Prosperity I see a number of worrying points. For example, the Netherlands scores poorly on the theme of environment and raw materials. This is due, among other things, to our imports of metals and fossil energy sources from developing countries. As far as we are concerned, our prosperity cannot be at the expense of vulnerable people in other countries. I would therefore like to call on the Cabinet to take full account of the impact of our actions on developing countries, for example in the development and implementation of the climate agreement. We often talk about a good future for the future generation, but let us make sure that it does not come at the expense of others. I come to the maintenance of our waterways, our rivers and canals. And I'm gonna bring the roads right into that too. We visited Rijkswaterstaat with the commission for IenW the other day. A large number of employees have shown us with pride and passion how this maintenance of roads, waterways, bridges and locks is done there. A professional organization: that was clear. But such a professional organisation must also have a corresponding budget. And we'll find that's where the shoe's starting to wring. The General Court shows that the Ministry of IenW does not provide sufficient insight into the maintenance deficits and accessibility problems caused by malfunctions, but also that Rijkswaterstaat does not have sufficient budget to properly manage and maintain bridges and locks. The volume delayed and overdue maintenance runs into year, year after year; that has already been appointed. Unfortunately, this is noticeable in practice. The number of obstructions for inland waterways, but also the number of traffic jams on roads is increasing as a result of disturbances. Without additional budgets, this may only increase further in the future. As far as we're concerned, that's not good. That's not good for the flow, it's not good for our economy, but it just gives a lot of grumpy. As far as I am concerned, the Minister is going to ensure that there is enough money to carry out these basic management and maintenance tasks properly. This may not only be about enough money, but also about enough people and resources, which, of course, is expressed in financial terms. As far as we are concerned, the implementation of these basic tasks should not be at the expense of the construction of new infra, because such a hub Hoevelaken or such a lock at Kornwerderzand will not be cheaper if you remove that money from the back. Mr. Chairman. My final point is the energy transition. I don't know if I can go through with that or if I can just...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u56	I don't know how much longer you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u57	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u58	Then I'll go to Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know the SGP as a highly financially sound party. According to Mr Stoffer, the public debt has to go even further down. But if I have counted just as quickly, there must be a billion or 6,7 for defense, 1 or 2 billion more for relief of charges, single workers and additional money for infrastructure. I wonder how the SGP thought it would fund this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u60	That is a very good question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u61	Now the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u62	That's what I thought, but of course I gave myself some time to think about it. You're so hard on me! I do not think that this is necessarily the time to go into detail. I'd like to hear what's coming from the cabinet first. When we talk about the 2020 budget, I will surprise you, just like last year, with how we intend to finance it. I hear D66 wants to come up with an interruption, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u63	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u64	That is my answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u65	That's the way it's gonna be. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u66	Still, I think that's a little too cheap. I do understand that we need to see if we can get public finances in order even better. But when you then come up with such a laundry list, I think it is fair to indicate a direction: what are you looking for it in? We must have a debate in which that balance is found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr. Slootweg says my point is too cheap. I think it's expensive. But I don't feel like I'm coming up with a huge laundry list. As far as the defence sector is concerned, it is clear that this has to be something that goes towards the future. There's a budget now, and we're gonna have to add something to that later. We'll go back to a number of posts. You know the SGP as a financially sound party. If that happens immediately, we will, just as we have always done in the past, also last year in the budget, really point out a number of things where we need to go back to square one. But I think these are real things: Defense and infrastructure. We can let it run backwards, but if we do that, it's gonna cost us a lot of money. That's gonna cost us more money in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u68	The concern expressed by Mr Stoffer about defence and infrastructure has, in my view, been expressed by many parties here. But at the same time, the defense needs to go to 2%. Your group chairman regularly says 'we want more money to go there'. Then I find it hard to understand when you start your introduction with "Well, well, Minister of Finance, aren't you a little too spacious; shouldn't you have another tooth?" Then you have to point in the direction: where do you want to look for it? That is what I think is so balanced in a debate. I miss that now. On the one hand, wish lists are laid down, but on the other hand, there is no indication that this is not necessary to the decimal place where you want to get them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u69	I believe that I have complimented the Minister of Finance for the fact that this year, too, the debt of the state has been brought back. I assume that policy will continue in the coming years. I think we're gonna see it go back a little bit. The fact that I address a number of cases here that we address every year is clear. We've always been clear about defense. If you have seen our election programme last time, you will have seen that we have properly covered it. Infrastructure is now a new issue. I don't think it's a huge amount of money. I can say wonderfully: you know, we transfer it from construction projects. But I think that's too easy. All kinds of commitments and political desires are established. I think you've got the whole country on you if you're gonna get some of that out of there. In fact, there are still a lot of wishes for projects that have not yet been covered. They're also in the coalition agreement. So I think that is too easy, but I agree with you that the coverage should be included when we talk clearly about how much we are talking about. You can rest assured that, if we need to do so later, we will take a strong interest in this. I totally agree that we are not going to get there with open ends, but I am far from wishing for a huge laundry list. These are two logical points, which I think we have always said a few things about. The maintenance is indeed a new point, but we are not talking about huge posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u70	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u71	I have not fully understood the language of Mr Stoffer's tongues. I did not understand that there was a compliment in it, because I really felt that as a certain criticism. Let me put it this way: the Spirit of Pentecost is not quite over me, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u72	Look, we've got that clear. What I said about this minister's robustness was really meant as a compliment. Shall I finish my point, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u73	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u74	I have one more point, and there's still a little money in it. In that respect, that might also help. Well, not quite. We are also concerned about the energy transition, particularly its cost. In the coming years, it will cost more and more money. A good accountability of public funds that go there is therefore crucial. The Court of Auditors has also made a number of criticisms of revenue and expenditure on renewable energy. Through the storage in the energy account money is collected for the SDE+, but for that SDE+ there is now 2.5 billion on the shelves. I would not suggest using that for the costs we have just mentioned, but this money is there because of this underexhaustment. My point is that consumers are currently paying taxes for this and that it is also unclear what the actual burden-sharing between households and businesses is. In addition, there is still work to be done on broadening the SDE+ regime, which makes this relationship with the storage on the energy account increasingly looser. I think that the energy transition will also cost more in the coming years. I'm worried about that. I would therefore ask the Minister to work towards a better accountability of these tax revenues, coupled with the use of the funds for the energy transition. Mr. Chairman. That's how I get to my last point. I've been looking for a nice pinky poem to close with, but everything I found was hugely long and I've only got eight seconds left. So I wish everyone the Spirit of Pentecost, and I leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u75	Mr Snels has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u76	A brief question for clarification. Is Mr Stoffer now saying that he would like to use the under-exhaustment of the SDE+ scheme, the renewable energy scheme, for other expenditure? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u77	No, no, no, no. No, you misunderstood me. I was just trying to say that we shouldn't. The only concern I have is that that money is now on the shelf, while, of course, we have been burdening housekeepers for that at the moment. I would prefer that to run in parallel, but my proposal is certainly not to use it for anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u78	There's a certain parallel with what's left of infrastructure. These projects must ultimately be implemented. It seems to me, therefore, entirely logical that this should be pushed forward over time. I hope that Mr Stoffer agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u79	I certainly agree with that, but we do not have a multiannual fund and such. I would therefore like to see this balanced in the end. But I think we will agree on the observation that this is now there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said. I'll do the closing today. Looking back is always less interesting than looking forward. The here and now, and the delusion of the day often fill the Chamber agenda. Every day we are witnessing this in the organisation of work, where we take advantage of each other to score among the electorate through the umpteenth request for debate. However, looking back is an important part of the parliamentary control function of the Chamber. The General Court, also present today, is helping us greatly. Thank you to the General Court for the good work. As a society, we can be proud of this institution. However, when I think of 2018 I do not think directly of the legality of 99% of national spending. I do not immediately think of UWV, the police and primary education, who have been given extra resources without much visible results. I am not even thinking of the fact that there have been more irregularities in the national accounts, both in terms of expenditure and in terms of revenue and obligations. I'm a little disappointed by the Minister of Finance. Nor does it seem to me to be a recommendation to the future leader of the CDA. No, when I think of 2018 I think of those nine bizarre debates about the dividend tax and the jubilant purchasing power promise of the cabinet. When I listened to the stories of the cabinet about purchasing power, I draw the conclusion that the learning ability is rather limited. We saw this with Prince's Day: the cabinet gave itself a huge plume and offered everyone a 1.6% increase in purchasing power. The prophecy was brought as a fact. The fact that the government does not fully control an important variable such as wage and price developments was not mentioned. That good news show ended up again in a deception for another year. When does it come to the conclusion that the purchasing power plates of the cabinet are an illusion? A package of scrap metal with a thin layer of chrome, once sang a local politician from Utrecht. Mr. Chairman. That 1.6% disappeared like snow for the sun. We hear great stories about profits and tax cuts for business and large surpluses in the government budget. But the civilian's wallet remains pretty empty. The energy bill does not increase by €100 but by €323. Last year this was €180. VAT on fruit and vegetables shall be increased by 50%. For each household this means €300 more tax. The health insurance has been increased again by €250, in addition to the towering own risk of again €385. Pensions are not rising with inflation and are likely to be reduced, including with the current draft pension agreement. Indeed, the coverage rate for many pension funds is lower than the required coverage rate. At first sight, the overall macroeconomic picture seems very positive. Economic growth was 2.7%, although less than 3.2% but still very high. In 2018, according to the Annual Financial Report, there was a surplus of 11.3 billion, i.e. 1.5% of gross domestic product. Mr. Chairman. The government and business are making big profits, the money is plotting against the plinths and the money trees are growing ever further into the sky. But for the ordinary employee and the retired, it's very frugal. We saw that inflation in 2018 was higher than expected, i.e. 1.7%, and vice versa that wage developments were lower, i.e. 2%. In 2018, there were no substantial tax reductions, so the conclusion is that real wage developments were only 0.3%. In 2017, this was 0.5%, while the economy grew by 3.3%. The budget surplus, as recalled earlier, amounted to 11.3 billion. If we look at how it was budgeted, this is 3.5 billion more than we took into account in the estimate. Why not just a simple calculation? Why don't we just give the 3.5 billion back to the citizen? We didn't take it into account anyway. It has been extra paid through additional premiums and tax revenues. If you calculate that quickly, 3.5 billion divided by 7 million households, that means €500 per household. Wopke's five barkies, they'd say in street language. This also fulfills the promise of Rutte, which once promised €1,000, for half. Mr. Chairman. We had a huge windfall in 2018. Rutte's dividend madness to give two billion dollars a year to Unilever and Shell was skilfully killed at the last minute. Even the Secretary of State for Finance, Menno Snel, admitted that there are of course far better ways to stimulate the economy than the abolition of dividend tax, which would give a financial advantage to foreign investors and governments in particular. Menno Snel's conclusion then again contradicted the hysterical stories of the Prime Minister about this dividend tax, because if we did not abolish it, Shell, Unilever, Philips and Akzo might disappear from the Netherlands. In fact, 40% of gross domestic product could possibly disappear from the Netherlands, hundreds of thousands of jobs on the road. It turned out to be scary after all. What is the real situation now that we are looking back at the consequences of not abolishing the dividend tax? Can the Prime Minister give a comprehensive response to this in his first term? I'm really curious about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I go back to purchasing power development, which is far behind economic growth. This welfare paradox is very worrying in itself, because that trend has been going on since 2011. There is no real wage growth. Real wages have been stagnant for 18 years. While the multinationals, and now also the government, are entering financially, there is nothing left for the workers and pensioners, nothing but crumbs that employers are throwing at them. We also see that taxes are being paid less and less by companies and more by people. The share that people have to pay increased from 70% to 83%. This means that the companies only pay the remaining 17%. The labour income ratio, the part of our national income that goes to employees, has been falling from 80% in 1996 to 73% in 2015. However, the profits of multinationals are increasing. Let's look at that poor Unilever, who so much liked to see the dividend tax abolished. This has made a 9.8 billion profit over the past year. The year before, they were at 6.5 billion. What a huge improvement. So why are you asking for $2 billion from that state grape? I have already mentioned this: once again the income picture of pensioners, Mrs Cornelissen, is 0%. This cabinet treats the multinationals to champagne while others have a bit of tap water. The cabinet does a lot for multinationals and much less for people. Let me finish. The economy's doing so well. There is a surplus of 11.3 billion, an economic growth of 2.7%. The Netherlands is the happiest country to live in, except if you have to wait 18 years for a social housing. But the economy is doing well: a surplus of 11.3 billion and an economic growth of 2.7%. The Netherlands is the happiest country to live in, except if you have to start your first job after your studies, with a debt of €30,000. The economy is doing well: a surplus of 11.3 billion and an economic growth of 2.7%. The Netherlands is the happiest country to live in, unless you haven't seen your pension rise in seven years. The government is also doing well, except when you look at the Tax Office, where 700 million has been wasted on sending away 1,000 employees and where we now have a deficit of 3.450 fte to our fright. And what do we read? Strategic personnel policy must be pursued. Mr President, what wisdom!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u83	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u84	Madam President. First let's get a logistics report in advance on the distribution of the topics. The Monitor Broad Prosperity, the climate, education, Defence and security will be handled at the highest level by myself. The Minister of Finance deals with everything related to the annual reports and the budget, the reports of the Court of Auditors, infrastructure and the VWS topics and pensions. Finally, the Minister for the Interior deals with ICT and developments at the Rijksdienst. Just a few words in advance. I don't see him right now, but Mr Bruins' words touched me. He referred to D-day today. I was allowed to be in England yesterday, where the departure was commemorated on June 5th before D-day on June 6th. That was very impressive. Among the veterans still present were two Dutch veterans, who also flew along. One's gonna be 100 in three weeks. He said, "The worst thing about older people is when they get a cracker voice like that." That is not necessary. This man had such a voice that he would be able to change the behavior on the other side of the football field over the troops. You'll be almost 100. When you hear what this man has been through, I fully agree with Mr Bruins that we owe very much to those people for the fact that we can talk about the advantages and disadvantages of the Broad Prosperity Monitor in relative peace. Those weren't exactly the kind of subjects that were discussed between 1940 and 1945. Let's be incredibly grateful for that. The great anti-revolutionary statesman and Prime Minister Abraham Kuyper once said that governing is something other than administering. He was right about that. Governing is making choices in scarcity and those choices are rarely to be reduced to what you see in this debate today as a simple calculation or a ticking list. It is always about complex trade-offs between different interests. They can be material, they can be intangible and sometimes both. Politics is then about security, freedom, care, education, public finances, migration, the housing market, pensions, climate policy, burden burden, purchasing power, at home and abroad. That's all in the mix that the Cabinet and the Chamber deal with every day, so all of us. And yet it is important that we sometimes manage to ask ourselves whether we are still doing what we have agreed and whether the tax money is being spent properly and efficiently. That is why there has finally been a Day of Accountability and this Accountability debate. I think that started about 15 years ago. I remember that in 2006-2007, when I was chairman of the political group, we were going to celebrate the first real days of accountability here. There are three of us here today. This means that, for our part, we are also trying to serve the Chamber more and more widely in this debate. That is quite simply because accountability is part of democracy, but also because it is disciplining and stimulating for us as cabinet members. In that respect, I would like to thank the College of the General Court for all the work that has been done. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its contribution in the first term. Some were of course more complimentary than others; we will answer everything. And let me immediately join all the critics who point out that the cabinet still has a lot to do, because I fully agree with that. However, I cannot ignore the fact that care on some really big, far-reaching issues such as climate and retirement must now go a little above speed. You will say: that was then done, because the climate is not going very fast and pensions have lasted nine years. Nevertheless: why is that necessary? Because it is important for longer term support in politics and society to ensure that quality of content. This week there have been several debates on this type of subject, in which I was present. In a political landscape, a society and civil society with increasing fragmentation, there are no obvious majorities anymore, see also the results of the state elections and how long it takes in the various provinces to form colleges and see also the composition of the First Chamber, where the largest two parties now have twelve seats. You used to be about the fourth party, so now you're either the biggest or the second largest party in the Upper Chamber. If you add all this together, achieving major social breakthroughs on major issues such as climate and pensions requires building social coalitions. And then there's no other way than that care in this kind of subject is above speed. The facts are that the cabinet has been working for one and a half years. That is one and a half years of the four years we need to implement the coalition agreement, or at least we are talking about that period here. During that year and a half many plans were carried out or put in the scaffolding. I refer to the pension agreement, but also to a number of major decisions, such as the one on gas extraction, which has also been debated this week. The last terrible quake and the same debate this week show how important it is to speed up gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres and then to 0 cubic metres. Important laws have been passed and filed, look at the Labour Market in Balance Act, which has also been adopted in the First Chamber and which reduces the differences between fixed work and flex work, but also look at the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Big investments are being made in the public sector, look at the extra money for elderly care, teachers, Defense and the handling of traffic jams. The relief has been mentioned here by a number of people. This is indeed one of the largest relief packages of the cabinet in this century and it is also a multi-annual political map, including in the First Chamber. The next instalments will come in January in the next two years. Several important and other measures have been taken, look at what we are doing, for example, to combat loneliness, to tackle poverty and debt, to make people grow old worthy and to fight undermining. All these results are the subject of this debate. This is also reflected in the breadth of the first term contribution of the Chamber. Madam President. In my experience, governing is mainly work in progress and every day doing what is needed. Sometimes it goes faster than planned, often it doesn't. Anyway, there is always the danger that you will be swallowed up by the delusion of the day and that there is therefore too little time left for reflection. Once again, I believe this is the strength of this debate. So I'm starting to reflect right now by going into the different subjects that I'm dealing with right now. Firstly, comments have been made on the trade-off between economic growth and well-being. That was brought in by GroenLinks. Mr Snels spoke about this. On this point in his speech, I would like to reply that the cabinet is seeking to bring together several aspects of prosperity at the same time. It's en-and. For example, we are working on an energy transition that not only contributes to a better climate and cleaner air, but also to a stronger economy, because it must lead to more jobs and more innovative power. The effects are that we live longer and healthier, but also that we get more comfortable, isolated houses. Of course, this is an economic opportunity. Another development that is taking place in the social debate, to which Mr Snels referred, is that the satisfaction of leisure is decreasing. There's more stress and less directing about one's own life. I agree with him that working in itself in certain circumstances can lead to stress, but can I point out that unemployment and poverty lead to much more stress? So we will have to balance society more and more. This immediately brings me to the theme of the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Several questions have been asked, including by Mr Snels. Without repeating his questions, I'm trying to answer them. This monitor helps with information about the recent past in mapping the situation and the challenge for the Netherlands. The monitor does this by providing a very broad, objective overview of the prosperity, with the various indicators that the report provides for and which the report is rich in. That information feeds the debate. Policy objectives are formulated in the cabinet formation and, if necessary, adjusted if topicality so requires. This makes the monitor itself a useful source of information for the cabinet formation, but also for discussing the state of play every year here. However, it is less appropriate to look ahead, such as predicting how much budget is needed to improve the outcome of certain indicators. Changes may occur as a result of other developments, such as the economic situation. There is coherence between different welfare aspects. In some cases, there is indeed an en- and. That energy transition is indeed a good example, but of course you can also see it on other major themes. Look at pensions, which must also be balanced: we need to ensure a good pension, but also that people can get that pension in a healthy way. There are several aspects that play a role in this. Then, of course, there are things where choices have to be made in the scarcity, because the budget is always limited. The formulation of concrete policy objectives and accountability is difficult. We have to be honest about that. It would be interesting, however, if I could come a little bit closer to Mr Snel's report to see if it would be possible to give more direction to the interpretation of the indicators in the monitor. At the moment, trends in the monitor are positive if they lead to higher broad prosperity and are positive when we belong to the best countries in the European Union. That's actually how it works now. I would suggest that we explore the possibility of using the monitor more in the policy cycle itself, considering reporting on results in the monitor with the question of whether and how policies have contributed to it. The question that follows is then what policy options exist to influence the results. This is extremely complex for several indicators in the monitor. So that reconnaissance will take time, but if we do, I think we're gonna take the monitor one step further. That is the beginning of a response to Mr Sneller's question, from the circle of D66. He asks how we can integrate budget figures more into the monitor. Again, the budgetary figures themselves are mainly about input: how much money do we spend on all these different policy areas? This is how the output is realized. Those are the government instruments and arrangements that we all have. This ultimately leads to a result, the outcome. Of course this is in connection with what is happening in the private sector and abroad. The Monitor Brede Prosperity describes that outcome. So it's not just possible to integrate it, but again, I think it's interesting to do an exploration to see how you can use the monitor for a more predictive value for the future. This will enable us to integrate him more into the policy cycle. I think this is a response to Mr Snels and Mr Snelter's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u85	I think you will see two happy rapporteurs, in a number of areas that have to do with this. I think that the Prime Minister is right that many indicators of the Broad Prosperity Monitor are not in themselves suitable as policy goals, but it is an important exercise to define policy goals from those indicators, because then you can at least say something about policy. How exactly does the Prime Minister see this reconnaissance? On what time? How is that designed? Can he give it a little more color?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u86	I could do that, but the answer will gain in strength if I allow myself to be advised by the administration, so let me give it to you for a moment. I understand your question; fine, but now operational, what and how much. I'll do it now or in second term. Then in response to what was said by Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party. His view is that the Netherlands does not score very well on this Monitor Brede Welvaart, for example look at the waiting lists. What that monitor does is give an overall picture of a multitude of indicators. There are important issues that have not been resolved. You can see that the overalls are incredibly good with the Netherlands. I'm sure it's not bad. Look at our inequality. In the Netherlands, it is about the lowest in the world. I believe Sweden is trumping us. That's where we're really at the top. You can also see that, in countries with limited prosperity differences, it leads to greater social cohesion and prosperity. I don't think we have much to gain there. According to the Eurobarometer, the Netherlands also has the lowest percentage of citizens who consider these differences to be too large. We have the lowest percentage of citizens who say that the differences are too large. Extended, taking a look at New Zealand. It's always interesting to see what happens in another country. They've introduced a well-being budget. They look at five themes, for example how improvements in mental health care or the well-being of children are going. New Zealand's total structural budget is about 1.3% of GDP, with a number of one-off investment costs. We didn't do that in the Netherlands. Ultimately, everything we are trying to do is to increase prosperity, not increase GDP. That's important, too. We're not a company that's trying to increase sales. As a government, we try to increase the country's prosperity. Our main two tasks are to create security and a country where people are able to discover their talents and bring them to full maturity in everyday life. This means that politics at its core is about security, not about jobs, but about an environment in which jobs can be created so that it also creates financial prosperity in order to increase welfare in the country. As I said, this Monitor Brede Prosperity is then less suitable to predict how much budget is needed to improve the result of certain indicators. In the context of the exploration I was just talking about, I think it is going to give us more instruments for the future. I have received a whole speech on how New Zealand does that and how that well-being budget works exactly. Maybe I can focus on the commitment in the Netherlands to integrate the wide monitor with the monitor for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). I think that is a good move, because there is, of course, overlap between the two measurements. We are now trying to make that comprehensive set of indicators manageable. I remember the discussion in the UN about the SDGs. That was 17 then and there are still 17. As beautiful as you make the icons, we're never gonna remember them. Anyway, by now it has become part of our entire thinking and it also structures part of our work. In this sense, the spearheads of the New Zealand model also come back into Dutch policy, for example when you look at the extra funds invested in aspects of care and mission-driven innovation policy over a number of years. All this contributes to increasing productivity, but also to the transformation of the economy. The mention of the SDGs immediately brings me to Mr Slootweg. He asked how the cabinet looks at the annual red positions at those SDGs. Well, I'll say a few things about that. For the first time, the CBS makes an integrated measurement of the broad prosperity and progress of the SDGs. I think that's a good thing, because there's a overlap. The indicators for the SDGs are partly made up of a number of official, internationally determined UN indicators, supplemented in the monitor by broad welfare indicators. They give the complete picture of the Dutch situation. You can see that the Netherlands scores high, but indeed not on all parts. We score less well on climate and energy, nature and sustainability and food production. The Netherlands is like a small, densely populated country, from 200 by 300 kilometres, with 17 million people, the second best performing country in the world, after Switzerland. Then you see that with such a small area and so many people we have such a high prosperity, with an open economy, with also a lot of energy-intensive industry, intensive agriculture and a very limited amount of own raw materials, with the largest we had rightfully being reduced to zero. Those are serious issues. That's what you see in the SDGs. The Netherlands score less on biodiversity, the numbers 14 and 15 in the SDG list, on renewable energy, SDG 7, and on climate action, SDG 13. That is why it is so important that the Netherlands is working on the whole issue of energy transition and reducing the effects of high CO emissions. We do that nationally, but that is only possible if we also shape it internationally. I thought Mr Van 't Wout referred to this: you can't do this kind of thing as the Netherlands. You can't build a wall in the air that stops environmental pollution. You have to take action here, but in conjunction with surrounding countries. I can now, of course, read out what ambitious objectives we have in the coalition agreement, but you know it. The aim is to arrive at a final approach, which I call a plan 49%. We are trying to complete that 49% plan in June, with a 49% reduction in emissions by 2030 compared to 1990, with all the sub-sections included in the coalition agreement. This also depends on what happens abroad. We know the political agreements on this. As part of the climate effort, this is used to make production and consumption more sustainable. This includes the Rijkswide programme Circular Economy, which my colleague Stientje van Veldhoven is working on, and the transition agendas from the Raw Materials Agreement. Mr Slootweg asked a question on a completely different point. What about the second tranche of resources for reducing the workload in primary education? In this respect, conditions have been laid down for the conclusion of the work pressure agreement, but also for the responsibility to be given. It takes place after conversations on the team and after coordination with the staff. School teams are now in a position to decide how these resources are used. I am confident that it will be deployed in a way that will be useful to those teams. There are also recent polls showing that the vast majority of resources are actually being used for more hands in the classroom. I almost got tears of it in my eyes that we sometimes do something here with a particular purpose, and that we then also achieve that goal. That's not often the case, but when it happens, it's an emotional moment. However, it remains important to collect information in order to gain more insight into the approach and influence of these work pressure devices on the workload in practice. There is therefore an interim evaluation on this important issue in 2020. A question has then been asked by Mr Alkaya on youth care. Maybe the Home Secretary thought she was going to answer that question. Yeah, I see that's the case. I'm trying now. If I get any tricky questions, I'll refer. I think she spoke about it yesterday at the UNG Congress, and that went well there. In April 2018, the Health for Youth programme was launched together with the municipalities. The aim is to significantly improve youth aid for children and families. In the short term, however, there will be a progress report to the House of Representatives. Recently, administrative agreements have been made with the aim of making the whole system work better, more effectively and more efficiently. In doing so, we have decided, and we have agreed with the UNG, to provide additional funding for youth care in spring. In total, this amounts to more than EUR 1 billion. In addition to this additional budget and these administrative arrangements, the agreement has been made to carry out additional research to determine whether and to what extent municipalities need additional structural funds. This should be completed by autumn 2020. This then serves as input for the next cabinet formation. Let me return, Mr President, to Mr... Ah, I've got someone asking for something now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u87	It's a pretty practical and short question. "After 2019" is a rather woolly concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u88	Autumn 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u89	2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u90	So there's a billion more now, but that's not structural. In the autumn of 2020, this research must be completed on what is structuralally necessary. That will then be on the table of the cabinet formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u91	So whether there will be a structural solution, we don't know until the end of next year, so practically only in 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u92	Well, that is also possible because in the coming years a year there will be so much extra money for youth care from that 1 billion pot, which will be added to the various annual budgets in a certain rhythm, that we will also have time to complete that research in the autumn of 2020 and put on the table at the cabinet formation. I hear from the Minister of Finance, besides me, that there is also funding for 2021. In the rhythm there is money until 2021. So if we know that in autumn 2020, we will be well in time for the budget for which it is really important: that of 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u93	I see, of course, the ambition and it is beautiful, but I would like to emphasise here that it is important that more money is added structurally. The trade unions also indicate that this is much more than the cabinet now intends to release: not 1 billion over three years, but 750 million per year structuralally. I would like to give this to the cabinet: make sure that there is a structural solution and that it is adequate. I see this as more of an effort than an obligation to achieve results. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u94	There is, of course, a broad sense that we should try with each other... No, I'm gonna change my mind. We have had a discussion with the VNG because we really need to prevent more and more children coming into the reach of youth care. That's a risk. If there are certain good facilities, you always run the risk that the threshold is so low that even if it is not necessary or to a limited extent necessary, people will end up in youth care. You need to use youth care where it can really add value. On average in the Netherlands it accounts for 10% of children, but in some regions it rises to 18% of children. So these are quite high percentages, much higher than we had in a somewhat distant past. You're trying to keep everyone in the classroom who's got a thing for you from getting into juvenile care. There are just children who learn less well or learn very well or who have certain problems that can also be solved in family education and with friends. If it goes beyond that trial, you'll of course end up in the youth care department. That threshold is now perhaps so low that we are all now looking at how the proportion of children covered by youth care is growing. We understand very well that the trade unions say: given the current use, given the number of people using the facilities, money must be added. You understand that in itself, but the point of all these investigations is to do both. The challenge towards the sector is: can we ensure that we are there for the children who really need it and what is the real amount? And then there's really no way to rule out the need for money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u95	Finally, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u96	Yeah, finally. I get it at this abstraction level. That threshold should not be so low that every child is covered by it. Of course, everyone understands that, but this balance has been deliberately placed with the municipalities by the previous cabinet, because they can make that balance better. They're closer to those kids. We have delegated these powers to the municipalities. My party was in principle in favour of this, but was not in favour of the austerity that went along with it. If afterwards it turns out that more children need it, then it is a bit easy to say from our position at national level: but that was not the intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u97	The main goal of placing in the municipality is because it is the only place where you integrate the issues of care around child, family and elderly people. In all aspects, the municipality has a view on its own inhabitants, the Wmo, the wider area of care for the elderly, full-width education and can work in an integrated way. The threshold wasn't meant to go down. I don't know if that happened either. We can only see that the percentage of children taking advantage of it is increasing considerably. And so part of this investigation is to see what's going on with that. I understand the trade unions very well when they say that we are short because of the current high percentage. For the next few years, I think we've put enough money in it. From 2022 onwards, we need to see if we have sufficient budget in that combination of PxQ, inflow times cost per case. We have to look at both, otherwise there is the risk of saying: there is more influx, so there needs to be more money. Okay, but where did that influx come from? Is there anything you can do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u99	Mr. Chairman. I'm zooming in on the climate a little bit more. Mr Snels van GroenLinks asked about the nature objective of the cabinet. With climate you have goals, because there you have measurable goals, but what about nature? The Birds and Habitats Directives oblige us to maintain or bring the protected species and ecosystems into a favourable state of conservation. This is monitored by the Planning Office for the Environment. This autumn, the Netherlands reports to the European Union on the state of nature. This is done in the framework of the six-yearly reporting for the Birds and Habitats Directives. For many species, they are in a downward trend. This also applies to many vulnerable ecosystems at the moment. What we want is to prevent and stabilise this downward trend towards loss of biodiversity. Then we want to work on restoring it. We are doing this in line with the European Biodiversity Strategy, inter alia, by focusing on the full implementation of the Birds and Habitats Directives. We are also working on maintaining and restoring ecosystems and ecosystem services. The question is how you actually use nature. I would also mention increasing the contribution to forest and agriculture to the conservation and improvement of that biodiversity. The Netherlands is continuing its efforts towards a new ambitious path for global biodiversity, in which we will have to play our part in the period from 2020 to 2030. The Netherlands is one of the very active contributors to this. I do not know if they have aligned, but Mr Sneller also had a question about nature and biodiversity. In fact, his question follows on from the point made by Mr Snels. He asked: what about the definitions besides the objectives? Nature and biodiversity can be defined in policy terms as ecosystems and plants and animals are covered by the Birds and Habitats Directives of the European Union. In doing so, certain species can be defined as vulnerable to, for example, excessive exploitation. This must be agreed within the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, the Cites process. Mr Nijboer van Partij van de Arbeid asked a broader question about sustainability and climate. He said that there is an ambitious climate and energy agenda and you are committed to reducing emissions. That's right. Thanks for the compliments. In the Netherlands, this means that we are preparing for the objectives of the coalition agreement, the 49% reduction in 2030 compared to 1990. The deal is that we actually want 55%. If Europe does not, we will try to get as close to those 55% as possible with neighbouring countries. In the end, we are doing the European average, but if it is below 55%, then it is the ambition to rebuild it with the surrounding countries. One of the plans we have now is to get together with the German climate cabinet and the Dutch Ministerial Committee on Climate and Energy before the summer to talk to the Germans about how we can work together. That is interesting, because in Germany and the Atomausstieg and the big issue of the closure of coal power stations are at 2037. There are a number of conflicting objectives. It is very important for the Netherlands that we work with the Germans, both in terms of climate-neutral 2050 and in terms of the European 2030 target. Mr Bruins and Mr Van Raan asked how the cabinet would reduce or even cut the ecological footprint. Actually, I just outlined that. That's what's in those goals. In addition, I would like to say that we are focusing on cleaner air through the Clean Air Agreement. I also mentioned the circular economy and the development of an integral sustainability framework for biomass. This is important, because biomass also has negative sides; it is not just a positive one. Finally, we focus on the periodic tightening of European standards on products and production processes. Then there is Mr Sneller's question: I am away from the subject of 'nature' students who say: I want to be a police officer, but the acquisition of Dutch nationality is not fast enough. Maybe I can ask him to tell us the source for his remark that it is not going well with that speed. I've been given a lot of explanations on how to apply for our nationality, but that wasn't his point. I understood the question in such a way that he said: it takes too long. I am not going to read how to acquire Dutch nationality in the Netherlands. But maybe he can tell me where the signal came from that wouldn't be fast enough. We have checked with Justice and Security and there we do not recognise the signal that this would be wide-ranging and that the processes would be too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u100	At least I'll report that to the Prime Minister. The question that comes from behind is: how does the Prime Minister feel about having Dutch nationality to become a police officer in the Netherlands, while these MBO students speak perfectly Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u101	I actually think that makes sense if you uphold the Dutch law. I'm not expert enough to tell you for which professions you should all have Dutch nationality, but it makes sense for me to say: listen, that you should have Dutch nationality, is the law here, isn't it? The same applies to underage aspirants. If you want to do it quickly, nationalization can take six months. This rapid procedure is available, among other things, for people born in the Netherlands or who have been legally resident in the Netherlands since their third year of life. For the other group it takes about a year or a little longer. Minors can do the same, but they are then represented by their parents or representatives. Anyway, you're gonna have to make that application in time. I get it: if you're going to enforce the law in the Netherlands, it's nice if you're Dutch too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u102	I find that a little less logical myself, but I will at least see to it that these people get on that fast track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u103	Yeah, exactly. And again, there's a six-month trajectory. If you've been here since your third year of life, or... If you're born here, you can go into that trajectory where it can happen within six months. Dan DOD. The Minister for Finance is still talking about under-utilisation. But there were also some questions asked, among others by Mr Bruins, about expenditure, in the sense that it would not have been put well with the material readiness of Defence. We're dealing with a whole series of backlogs in the Defense Department. That is well known and is being worked on incredibly hard. Many additional resources have been made available in the coalition agreement. Work has been carried out, among other things, to put the investments in order, including in terms of conservation and recruitment. There's a big staff question behind that, too. Additional resources have also been made available in the Spring paper. 'We are not there yet', I say to the American ambassador, when he begins, and rightly so, about the Wales Pledge of 2%. Because the cabinet wants to see what we can spend extra on Defense in the future, and the Wales Pledge is about 2024 and not about 2019. But you're seeing a steady increase in defense spending. The 1.5 billion from the coalition agreement, now again the Spring Note, and we feel bound to Wales's commitments to work towards 2% by 2024. So that's just standing up. Recruitment is a top priority, as well as maintaining staff. It also looks at alternative ways of getting the work done. That can be both temporary and structural. Rental, outsourcing and co-operation with the market. I will not update on the collective agreement negotiations, because they are always precarious processes and they must now be followed up. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have answered the questions about the monitor, the climate, education and defence and security to, so my impression is, more than complete satisfaction, because nobody gets angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u104	Well, I don't know. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u105	Don't be angry!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u106	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u107	Thank you for the answers. The Prime Minister was also crystal clear in the answers he did not give. I had asked the question, for example, when his climate policy is going to offer an outlook of 1.5oC, but he has not answered it. He has confirmed that the stakes are 49%. That's 2oC, with a good chance at 3oC. That is, in our view, but also to the understanding of science, a very unpleasant world. We also fundamentally disagree on the way to resolving it. The Prime Minister sees the solution in economic growth, when we see it as a problem. We're not gonna solve that here, but maybe we'll have another time. I do have another question, and I would have liked to have answered it. Does the Prime Minister recognise the great difference, also according to the scientific insight that we now have, between a 2oC world and a 1.5oC world?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u108	First of all, on that first point, because that's not right. The ambition of the cabinet is 55%. What we are doing now is planning on 49%, and that 49% can scale something down or can scale it up properly. But we are putting him at 49%; all the plans are now being made, with the intention that, if Europe, or at least we, with the neighbouring countries go to 55%, we will do so. If Europe comes down and does not even succeed with the surrounding countries, we will eventually do the average of that. But if you add up all the European plans, you're already at 45%. So the ambition is 55% and that goes up hockey stick. That really is a significantly higher ambition than that 49%. And that 55% is punctured, because it does work towards below 2oC, towards that 1.5oC. Two. It is not the case that we say: we solve this whole problem with economic growth. No, I'm still a bit VVD and I really appreciate that, if we all do very good things for this country, there will be a bit of jobs out of it as well. I do not think that is the case; the whole cabinet feels that this is the case. So you should also design that climate policy in a way that provokes innovation, that it leads to a modernisation of our economy, that more jobs are created and more activity is created in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u109	The first point, that ambition, of course, is wonderful. Great, but we don't see it in the measures. Not in any way. So thank you for the Minister's statement of ambition here. We're back here next year. But for the time being, that's just not gonna do us any good, because four years have been wasted since Paris to bet on 1.5oC measures. That is, I think, the first point. Secondly, does the Prime Minister see the big difference between 2oC and 1.5oC? I'm asking for an answer. Does he see that the costs and consequences of the difference are very serious? The third point. Maybe there's a bit of a VVD in me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u110	Hey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u111	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That's no secret either. We can share that innovation drive, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u112	Yeah, that 0.5o makes a big difference. And, of course, there is a huge risk that you might be at a turning point where the permafrost in Russia is going to die and so huge amounts of methane are released. We know that methane emissions are 47 times worse than CO emissions. So there is a great urgency to get this problem under control. That is why we are working hard on this, we are committed to the Paris agreements and the cabinet is trying to achieve a plan in a broad social coalition that does not destroy jobs, but creates jobs, that allows people to stay in their homes, live their lives and also continue on holiday. But with each other, with 17 million people, we have to work on a world where CO emissions are reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u113	I see a good chance to make a bridge. We know what the difference between 2oC and 1.5oC is on a global scale; that is well figured out. Would the Prime Minister be prepared to make a study in which an indication can be given as to the difference between 2oC and 1.5oC for the Netherlands? That's doable. Would the Prime Minister be prepared to do so? That would perhaps also fuel that ambition to turn that 55% into action earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u114	I might have to say two things about that. There is no need to convince this coalition of the importance of that 55%. But we have said that it is no use at all if the Netherlands, a small country, goes to 55% if the surrounding countries stick to 45%, 46% or 47%. Because then you are exporting jobs to Germany and the emissions remain just as bad. Then you're impoverishing while the emissions aren't decreasing. The Netherlands accounts for about 0.5% of global CO emissions. For 100 million, we can extinguish the growing rainforests on Kalimantan. These brewing rainforests on Kalimantan alone account for more than 0.5% of global CO emissions. That costs 100 million, and what we have to do here costs billions. I know we both have to do it. We also want to spend those billions on this, but in conjunction with the surrounding countries. In the end, the target is 55%, and going in the direction of that 1.5oC. Then it can be interesting to say: wow, 1.5oC or 2oC makes a big difference. But since it is quite a challenge to push that broad social coalition towards a climate agreement in June, I do not think I should say now: shall we ask for another study? Which, according to some parties, also has to go straight to the Chamber without a cabinet response. Anyway, fortunately, that motion is still being voted on. So I would not do that now, but perhaps that is a point that Mr Van Raan can bring back to the debate on the climate agreement, which hopefully will take place before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u115	I was just going to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u116	Mr President, I take it as a 'no' for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u117	For now! For now! Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u119	The Prime Minister has happily let me go home for two days, but today I think he's doing it all. 'Cause did I hear right that he said that in 2024 we're out of 2% of GDP for Defense? Or was I just dreaming a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u120	I don't think that's wise in your circle. I said that we are committed to the commitments of Wales from 2014. The deal we all made back then is "working towards 2% in 2024." At the moment, the Netherlands is spending a lot more on Defence. The Minister of Finance will explain once again that if you add so much to it, you will have problems getting rid of that money at some point. Well, we've found a few smart tricks to not spend that money on other things, but to keep it available for the DOD, so you can end up spending the money on the DOD. But at the same time, the economy is growing like a madman, so as a percentage of national income, expenditure is rising slightly, but not enough. But the ambition is still to do so. That is why I addressed the American ambassador here with his criticism of the Spring Note. It is therefore the ambition of this coalition to continue working towards 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u121	Yes. I'm trying...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u122	And that is what we are doing in next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u123	I'm trying to get eye contact, but I can't quite do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u124	But he is following all these debates, Mr President. And he speaks Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u125	Yes. This is a question of the 2018 accounting debate. So I really want to leave it at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u126	I'm done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u127	Thank you. Mr. Van Rooijen wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u128	Mr. Chairman. I have the purchasing power figures of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u129	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u130	That's it. Thank you. This shows that for pensioners with a pension of €10,000 next to the AOW, purchasing power is falling slightly. But the purchasing power of people with a supplementary pension of €30,000 falls by 1.3%. That is, of course, because of the non-indexation of the 30,000, not for ten years. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows. Today we read in the reactions of the metal pension funds and also Care & Well-being that the coverage rate was 100% by the end of April, but that it decreased by 3% in May. If this were to continue until the end of the year, does the Prime Minister recognise that the metal pension funds must be reduced by at least a few percentage points at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u131	I think the Prime Minister understands...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u132	My question is: can you answer yes or no, if that were the case at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u133	This really seems to me to be something for the debate on the pension agreement. I believe that this debate has just been decided when it will take place in Parliament. Then let's do it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u134	Can you answer a factual question? If the coverage is below 100%...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u135	Yes, Mr. Van Rooijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u136	No, but you said the discounts are off the table. They're off the table above 100%, but not below 100%. All you have to do is say yes or no. You cannot deny that, because you said yesterday in the agreement that we need to cut below 100%. So if that is the case at the end of the year, then there will be a reduction. Then you should not say that I can talk to colleagues about this next week. Then I won't be around anymore. A colleague of mine will. But I want to know about you. That's my only question today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u137	Mr Van Rooijen has introduced this question with so much nonsense. I really can't answer that. This comes back to the debate on pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u138	Mr President, I object...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u139	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u140	...that you accuse me of nonsense on my last day in the House of Representatives. Would you take that back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u141	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u142	I don't think that's a form of debate, Prime Minister. That's below your level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u143	Things aren't going so well today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u144	That may be, but you come up with so much nonsense that I can't answer that question. Then I'm gonna have to analyze and refute all that nonsense and then answer your question. But I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u145	You don't have to respond to my story. That's not bullshit, that's her. There's a difference between sense and nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u146	No, it's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u147	My factual question is: do you recognise, as the draft agreement states, that if the coverage rate is below 100%, then there should be a reduction? Then you shouldn't make fun of this or walk around it, but just answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u148	Mr. Van Rooijen, you have come up with an extremely suggestive introduction to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u149	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u150	Yes, you did. That's what I'm gonna keep going, and I really do. This does not do justice to the delicate debate that we need to hold on the pension system in society. There will be a debate on this, and my proposal is that we should integrate that whole debate on the pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u151	That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u152	Mr. Van Rooijen, this is your last day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u153	Yeah, and we're gonna have so much fun in the First Chamber again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u154	I assume that we will discuss the purchasing power figures more extensively with the Minister of Finance. But I also have a question for the chief on this point, also because he was already Prime Minister at the time when the budgets were adopted. In the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, it is very clear that the objective is that 80% of households are making progress. Does the Prime Minister now feel that he has failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u155	I am happy to answer all questions now, but we have a division of roles. So this one's with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u156	I should like to propose that the Minister of Finance should now speak. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u158	I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Members for their questions. I will make a number of preliminary remarks, then specifically talk about first the Court of Auditors and then the burden and the economy, and then the CW and the supplementary item. Then there's one question about broad prosperity, then defense and investment. Finally, the other block, where "other" as often happens to be very rich and other cubes will prove to be rather limited. Before I go into the questions asked, it is good to note that the whole cabinet, but I, as Minister for Finance in particular, attach extraordinary value to this debate. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is present at this debate. As a coordinating minister, it will answer all questions relating to ICT and information security. But I would like to emphasise, also to the Chamber, that ICT is really an issue that concerns every ministry, not least my own ministry, and that I know from experience how complex, persistent and extensive these problems are. Mr. Chairman. Public finances belong to all of us and to all of us. That is why it is so important that we report annually on the income and expenditure of the Empire. I would like to thank the General Court very much. I think they have left the lodge, but I would like to thank them very much for the advice and comments that keep us sharp. It is not always easy for colleagues in the cabinet and myself, it is sometimes confrontational, but it is always helpful. As Mr Van 't Wout said, it is also part of a mature democracy. I would very much like to join in that. Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors has, of course, said a lot about the shortcomings. I will say a few more about this in a moment, but let me make a few comments. There is a high degree of legitimacy in terms of expenditure and revenue. The Court of Auditors also endorsed this with a positive statement. We stay within the 1% margin of error. Many Members, Mr Nijboer, as well as Mr Stoffer and Mr Sneller, have pointed out that there is not only good news on this issue. I recognize that very much. Particular attention should be paid to the management of a number of departments. The number of deficiencies has also increased from 35 to 47 in business operations. Seven deficiencies have been resolved, 18 new ones have been added and 29 have not yet been resolved. There are also quite a lot of shortcomings in financial management. According to the Audit Service, the Court of Auditors confirms that there are no major fluctuations in financial management. Mr Azarkan, Mr Sneler, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van 't Wout all asked questions about financial management. I cannot go into every one of those pieces with all my colleagues now, but from my role it has my particular attention. In general, I would like to say that although on the one hand imperfections are a fact of life, as the Court of Auditors always explains to me when I asked a year ago how I got rid of a lot of those imperfections in a year, they said to me: have no illusions, if you have an imperfection, it usually stays with you for a few years this total palette asks for action from the cabinet. Each of the speakers I have just referred to also drew attention to this. This means that I will not be asking for specific attention in the cabinet next Friday, but in the next Friday, that I will draw attention to this in the Ministry of Finance, and that we simply have to get on with it. Mr. Chairman. I will continue in the Court of Auditors category. I think I answered Mr Van 't Wout's question by saying what we are going to do. To paraphrase him: I would, of course, not want the Prime Minister to be the prime prime minister in this century who would not get a positive statement and would also have to look at his finance minister. I hope that we have been able to address this immediately to the satisfaction of the VVD Group. Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Nijboer and Mr Sneller asked about the balance sheets. Quite rightly, that is what people are asking for. Something unfortunate happened there. The Secretary of State and I seem to be calling that Saturday prior to the Monday we sent that letter. That shows that something clearly did not go well there. As I have also informed the Chamber, this means that we will have to introduce the four-eyed principle even more clearly here and that we will take measures to prevent this problem. That calls for something from the Tax Office and possibly from the Audit Office of the Empire. What is reassuring in all of us is that no one has gotten into any kind of trouble, as the Secretary of State and I have also informed the Chamber. But I'm the first to admit it wasn't pretty. Mr. Chairman. Another point in the category of unlawfulness, which I believe several spokesmen asked for, among others Mr Van 't Wout. With regard to decentralisation payments, we are going to examine whether the Financial Ratio Act needs to be amended. Maybe one or two more comments on liability management. This is particularly a problem with the Treasury and the Defense Department. This simply means a task for these two ministries, including myself and my ministry, that we will have to steer better and, if necessary, use more capacity to get that right. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the block on burdens and the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u160	I hope you can do it all at once, Mr. Chairman. What struck me is that there were a lot of shortcomings, especially in the field of ICT and finance. In response to this, the Minister for the Interior sent a very large letter, which I believe was nine A4s - which, quite precisely, shows how it is handled, while the Finance response was two A4s, so that 'thank you, it has been approved; it is actually going quite well'. That is why the Court of Auditors was rather harsh in its judgment, that is my point. Will the Minister of Finance now ensure that there will be no disapproval next year? Does he think he's responsible for that? And is he really going to make an effort to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u161	In fact, we did that last year. Also in the previous report of the Court of Auditors, which was a bit better, but which also gave important attention to the cabinet in the areas of financial management and ICT, I have repeatedly brought this to the cabinet. The colleagues next to me will recognize that. We have also set up a structure for this within the Ministry of Finance. I said: I want this to be on the agenda very regularly, not only in high office, but also in politics, on the agenda of what we internally call the 'M staff', where the senior officials and the political leaders sit together. So I do not feel responsible for that. If too little text has given us the impression that we do not take this seriously enough, then I would like to remove it immediately. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u162	It's not because of too little text, I'd rather have less than more text, but because of what was in it. The criticisms were simply not addressed at all. That is also what the Court of Auditors has established. He then responded again and said: we do not agree with this; the Minister of the Interior is taking it seriously and the Minister of Finance receives one final warning. That's what they said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u163	I think I am speaking on behalf of the whole cabinet, and of course I feel a special responsibility for myself when I say that we take this extremely seriously. We are discussing this within the Cabinet and we are really doing more than we need at the Ministry of Finance. I have tried to make this more than clear to the Chamber, as I do now, and also to the Court of Auditors in the various discussions we have had on this matter. But I will also keep in mind this feedback from Mr Nijboer, if I may put it that way, when it comes to next year's response. Mr. Chairman. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to deal with the burden, the economy and the collective agreement, but perhaps I can say something about this in the first place. Mr Van Dijck asked why the citizens did not get anything from the Spring note. To be precise, we are going to have this debate with each other. I will keep it until then, but I would like to say a few words about the idea that it is all wretched and tormented. Our assessment is really a different one. Moreover, the Spring Note is, of course, also the moment when we take stock of the expenditure side of the national budget. We're going to look at the whole package at the August decision-making, and that goes down in the Millions Note. But there is no doubt that we will discuss this with each other. Mr Van Dijck may not have been complimentary, but he was positive about the fact that so many more people have jobs. I very much endorse that. I think he was talking about 195,000 people himself. That means that people who were still at home a year ago let's let this work on us and writing job applications are now at work. That's incredibly good news. He may have been too pessimistic about the people who are on welfare, because recently we have also been able to read that it seems, among other things, because of the change in the child arrangements introduced by the previous cabinet, that more people are able to leave the assistance. At present, I do not think participation was even the main objective of the whole operation, but it seems to be one of the consequences. That seems to me to be very good news, also in the first place for those people themselves. Mr Slootweg asked us to look at the incentives in the tax system. I very much agree with that. That's what we're looking at. At the request of the Chamber, we will also look at the remaining long-term pain points when it comes to marginal pressure. Both investigations will be shared with your Room in the short term. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about collective agreements. Without wanting to mow the lawn completely at the feet of my colleague, I think it is good to highlight that the Empire has indeed come up with such an offer that good collective agreements have been concluded for the government officials and for the police. We've done more than the bottom in the recent past. I am not even talking about primary education, with about 8.5% in six months and a further 1% later. These are very substantial increases. The good news seems to be: I am always cautious on these kinds of issues...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is a wish that is widely shared. The numbers I have seen for the first few months, but certainly also for the last few months of this year, as far as that is old, look better than last year. I think that's good news, too. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya and Mr Van Dijck referred to purchasing power. I very much agree with them that politicians should not overpromise. The cabinet has always tried to say that we wanted to look very closely at a very balanced distribution of purchasing power between the different decibels, centimetres or whatever the cut-through is. We want to look at young and old, poor and rich or people with different incomes. That image looked balanced. That image showed a plus for many Dutch people in the calculations of the planning agency, which I underline. But I have repeatedly said that it is the best possible assessment of our independent mathematician. That is and cannot be a promise from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u164	There is no Dutchman who can't remember this Prime Minister shouting: everyone's gonna feel it; everyone's gonna notice that things are getting better; everyone's been contributing to the crisis, but now everyone's gonna notice. Now this finance minister should not say "yes, no promises," and you name it. That has been said in so many words! Now even the CPB says that it has made a mistake and that inflation is much higher, especially because of policies, VAT, energy and so on. Even the CPB is now going to recalculate what that purchasing power will actually be this year. It's going down. My question is: is the CPB still coming up with those figures for the Spring Note? If it's lower than promised, will the Minister of Finance fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u165	On that last point, if the cabinet is very precise now, it is not influencing independent institutions in the timing with which they bring things out. I'm not gonna interfere with that, just like the rest of the cabinet never does. But let's talk about purchasing power. Of course, we all hope that purchasing power will increase, not only on the cabinet side, but also widely in the Chamber. Of course, we were excited about the passing on of a year ago. It's toe-currant that it's disappointing, but that's a little different than a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u166	This Minister of Finance is on the buttons! You are not hoping that purchasing power will be easy and that employers will do the job and increase wages. You're not hoping, you're touching the buttons. You have a button to influence purchasing power. You can bring that VAT down. You can lower the payroll tax. You have the tax button in your hands. And this minister, especially this Prime Minister, has said that everyone is going to feel it. The whole of the Netherlands doesn't feel anything about it and this is the third time they've been abandoned. That is why I say, when we talk about trust and cynicism: you feed cynicism, because you are asking for a lot of sacrifices at the time of crisis, but when the money comes up against the plinths, you do not give up at home and leave people with false promises. That is the problem that affects all citizens. My question is, are you gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u167	It doesn't happen often, but I think Mr Van Dijck is doing me a favor. I refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u168	We must also dare to look back and ask for accountability from the cabinet. The cabinet must also have the courage to answer, otherwise this debate will be of little use. I take up the budget of the Ministry of SZW and it says that over 80% of all households will improve purchasing power next year. If we find that this has not happened, the cabinet must say: we failed, sorry, we are going to make extra efforts to make the matters we have already done to improve purchasing power even more positive, so that we compensate the people for the promises we made in 2018. Not the promises to society as the cabinet has not experienced that way, but at least what it itself has set out in the budget as its objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u169	What Mr Alkaya and I fully agree on is that, of course, we hope that purchasing power will improve. The cabinet has also done the necessary work. We have repeatedly outlined the context. And that will also have been done by the Minister of SZW, whom I know as an extremely prudent and cautious person. That you don't stick to it in every sentence as well "says the CPB" or "thinks the CPB" in itself, because this was the assessment. It is true, and it will continue to be the case with all the purchasing power plates that we will be discussing in the coming years, that inflation can sink into the food, that world trade can sink into the food, that movements in the temperature can do something with the energy bill. Those are data we have to deal with. You can still do your best, but you can't always cook the result completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u170	If it had been so disappointing in 2018, which means that those figures have not been realized, we might be able to show a little more understanding. It is true that there has been so much economic growth and that the cabinet has managed to reduce one third of households. I expect some kind of explanation from the cabinet of what it has done and what has not worked well and what it will do differently. Instead, we hear from the cabinet: it is to be hoped that we will make it this year, but we are going to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u171	Of course, Mr Alkaya is free to take the size of the cabinet, including what happens to the economy and how it falls to citizens. But Mr Alkaya is also aware of my view that in general I think it is appropriate for politicians to be modest when it comes to assigning themselves to economic success and to what is happening in the economy. We are a small country with a medium-sized, very open economy, which is extremely sensitive to what is happening in the rest of the world. If world trade is going well, then the Dutch economy and vice versa are doing very well. That is why the cabinet does not say that what is happening in the economy is due to us. No, that has already been said by previous speakers, thanks to all those people who get up early every day and work hard. It has to do with that, plus the reasonably thriving world economic trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u172	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u173	Finally, Mr President. Look, I'm consistent. I think and I am convinced that the role of the government in the economy is great and that, if the economy goes well or goes bad, the government can charge itself that. The government is now deliberately making itself very small. It is a choice not to increase minimum wages. It is a choice not to introduce wage measures. It is a choice not to encourage profit-sharing within companies where profits are made. But I see in both the first term of the VVD and now also in the cabinet that they are selective. The good things come from the cabinet, but if it doesn't work out, it's not the cabinet. We must get rid of this selectivity, because otherwise, of course, there will be no point in the debate on accountability. I'm holding my heart for 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u174	I just wanted to say that I don't want to rake the good news to myself or to the cabinet. I'd show off other people's feathers. That's why I wanted to say that. Thank you for Mr Alkaya's comment on his consistency and consistency. I am bound to take advantage of that at a later date. That brings me to the supplementary post and not entirely surprising to Mr Snels. I can see him from the angle of my eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u175	Mr. Van't Wout.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u176	Before the Minister goes to the next block, I would like to ask whether my questions about this were perhaps still in the category of others. They had something to do with this. I believe that the Minister, like me, is convinced that as a government, we have really done our part to make people feel better. Now, I think, we can appeal to the companies to deliver their share, where possible. You've done that before, and I asked you to keep doing that. The second is, and I think you have admitted it yourself at some point in a reading, that we see in the broadest sense that there is a major economic problem. The SP also refers to that. I think she has very different solutions than I do, but there is an issue in the sense that we are seeing worldwide that economic growth and wages are increasingly starting to break up. I would have asked you: does the cabinet now see opportunities, with all the major studies we are doing on the tax system and the labour market and so on, to give specific attention to this issue as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u177	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u178	Thanks for the reappearance. That first point, that call, has often been repeated by Mr Nijboer. I always do it neatly. My predecessor did it, I did it myself, and the Prime Minister has done it in the past. I will certainly not say that thanks to all these encouragements, on the contrary, but we see a positive movement in wages in the private sector. By the way, it's typical... It has now taken a very long time to achieve a positive development of wages. Now I come to Mr Van 't Wout's more fundamental question. It is of course also about the fact that we are still distributing the cake in the Netherlands in a very balanced way, I think. But it is true, in itself, that it seems to be true, let me say with caution that in the last ten years more of the extra cake has come from business than from the citizen. That seems to be the case in itself. And that means that you have to make a policy on that. As far as I am concerned, this cabinet has certainly tried to do this in the coalition agreement, by wanting to invest very heavily in society, which I am going to say a little bit about, and by also greatly reducing the burden on the basic path, especially for citizens. But that remains, of course, a puzzle for each intermediate step, for every Millions note and the August round that precedes it. Then you're gonna have to consider this kind of thing, too. Then you will have to look at public finances, the investments you make and the burdens. We will do that again this August round.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u179	That's fine, but that wasn't exactly my question. I agree with you that the coalition agreement does sensible things in this area, otherwise the VVD would not have signed it either. What I see in the discussion on wages and economic growth is that the Netherlands is a rather positive exception to what is happening in many Western countries. I merely said in my speech that all the trends that are breaking down on that system in other countries will be over the next ten or twenty years. So I am really talking about a somewhat longer term, about a cabinet term-over which we are also dealing with. That is why you will have to do things in the labour market and in taxation. My question was: can you, with all the studies that we are doing now and which really go over the longer term and touch all of them, ensure that there is specific attention to this issue? Moreover, I am well aware that the solution to this problem is very complicated, because not only does a larger proportion go to companies, but also a much larger part goes to the government. We simply have an expanding collective sector. This is also a complex issue, but I think that in the things the cabinet already does there is an opportunity to mean something here for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u180	Then I have understood the question of the VVD even better, I think. I recognize that trend too. The Netherlands is an exception to this in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u181	I hear a phone ringing. Whose was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u182	From our spokesperson digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u183	From the spokesperson digitization, Mr. Middendorp. Good. Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u184	Oh, I thought I owed another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u185	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u186	I thought I'd shut up as long as I could. I was so curious to see what was coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u187	I was thinking about what kind of punishment you could come up with for that. A warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u188	I'll see if I can turn my own phone off this time, Mr. Chairman. By the way, there are all kinds of sub-trends for the Netherlands and sometimes there is a marked departure from abroad, but there are also developments that you can question. Take, for example, what happened in the Netherlands with regard to thezzp'ers. You can see that the growth of the number ofzzp'ers in the Netherlands is much higher. At first we were much lower, but we had a much larger growth. This is not all problematic, but it does mean that the labour market is changing fundamentally. However, this is such a considerate question that I find it complicated to do it all right in the short time I have been given. I would suggest that we either return to this question in writing with a perspective, that seems to me to be something for the Minister of SZW and myself, or that we pay attention to it in the Millions Note, because it would also lend itself to it. Whether that becomes a special frame Van 't Wout or something else, I'll leave that in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u189	A special frame in the Millions Note would of course be fantastic. In any case, I can tell you that the Minister recognizes it as a big issue and that he is going to look for a way, perhaps we should both do so in order to get back to this more comprehensively, together with the Minister of SZW. I understand that's not possible right now. You can debate this theme for a whole week, if you like. That's also because it's so important. It is good that we will come back to this at a different time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u190	I think it is a very good theme that addresses the VVD: people's incomes are not coming along with the economy. People with low and middle incomes don't benefit enough. The policy will have an effect on that. If you give 4 billion profit tax cuts, companies benefit from it. If you increase the VAT and the energy bill, the purchasing power is under pressure. You can stand there looking crazy, but you see it happening. I therefore ask the Cabinet to involve these aspects and the division between business and ordinary people, in the context of Van 't Wout. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u191	Of course, I would like to say to Mr Nijboer once again that, apart from political differences that are obvious in this House, most Members will recognize that the balance is broadly balanced. The balance we have struck between companies and citizens in the Netherlands is fairly balanced compared to almost all other countries in the world. I'm not saying it can't be any better. I also suspect that Mr Nijboer would really want to put him differently. But I would like to emphasise the context in which we should look at this problem. The Netherlands is one of the most egalitarian countries in the world, although I am no longer allowed to use the term 'gini coefficient'. I think we all agree that there are many good aspects to this. But we must not lose sight of the context if we are to have this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u192	That is simply a political view, of course. If multinationals are established here, but they do not contribute at all, we find that unreasonable. Fortunately, the coalition is gradually coming to that too. I would like to emphasise the other aspect, namely the role of the government itself in terms of wages. The teachers are still stopping for less work pressure, but also for a better reward. Many collective agreements have not yet been concluded. In this context, too, millions of people are working in the government. If we really think it is important, butter must be delivered to the fish. Would you also like to include in the Millions Note the question of whether there is room for that, for the people who do important work in the public sector, such as police officers and teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u193	Of course, we are always looking at the problem in general, but I would like to repeat that one of the first collective agreements with one, I shall not say a generous offer, but a firm offer such that it was accepted, has been concluded with the police. A similar collective agreement was then concluded for government officials shortly before or after. In primary education, significant money has been added. In six months or eight months, 9.5% has been added. Let's face it, that's a big amount of money. I was at a school myself two weeks ago. The teacher I spoke to there said she noticed, but it's still lower than secondary school. That's true, too. We must also look here at the fact that the government is doing its best to address these problems. I believe that this is important to take into account in this discussion. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the CW and the additional mail. Mr Snels asked about expenditure and the previous commitment. I agree with Mr Snels that it should be possible for funds to be transferred from the supplementary post to the departmental budgets. In the letter you received from me this week, I also think that I would like to mention how I can improve this follow-up with an annex to the budget chapters and how I will make sure that proposals with significant financial implications are clarified in accordance with the CW 3.1 requirement. I would like to add that Mr Snels will recognize that this is really a matter of learning by doing, and of turning the screw a little bit further each time. We have had this debate before, and I have said quite honestly that the number of calls that came in on the Treasury said, "Do we have to?" dried up during the first half of 2018. At that time, of course, it was a new instrument. So I know we haven't approached perfection yet, but I think we're moving forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u194	Just to be clear, I read the Minister's letter. Indeed, the follow-ability of the additional item is well expressed. I was specifically concerned with the wording and justification of Article 3.1 at the time when the information on the transfers from the supplementary mail to the departments. I think that is important for the committees in this Chamber. They will finally be able to ask the directors about Article 3.1. As far as I am concerned, exactly that point was not sufficiently clear in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u195	Quite precisely, for me, it is essential for the Chamber to be given the explanatory statement in accordance with 3.1. This is necessary for parliamentary discussion. This can be done in the budget itself, or in a separate letter. That is in no way in question to me. I will also draw attention in the monitoring to the explanatory notes on those transferred supplementary items. I hope the viewers at home can still follow. I think that's as far as I can go right now. I ask the whole of Snel for some understanding. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has said almost everything and more about what was to be said about the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I think there's one thing Mr Snels left lying there. We've had a lot of contact with them in plenary. I would like to say to him that we will really pay attention to this in the Millions Note. That is not so much a repetition, but I think a refreshment and an addition to an earlier commitment I made to him. I think we all see the problem. I agree with the Prime Minister's reply when I say that it is not so easy to do so in a way that then makes sense with the Million Papers. But I'm really gonna work on that. I'll be in the under-utilization, in the Defense and IenW, and the investments there. The question by Mr Van Dijck, Mr Slootweg and Mr Sneller was why the money is not being spent. In fact, they didn't even ask so much why it isn't being spent, as how it can get money back. We still have the debate on the Spring Note ahead of us, but let me get it out of my head for the DOD. At DOD, we're making an additional investment. We believe, as a cabinet, that this is much needed, given the challenges that exist and given the Welsh Pledge. Of course, we consciously take into account the under-exhaustment that was there last year. For the record, I believe that 10 million will be added this year and that amounts to between 400 and 500 million, or a small half billion. Then it goes back to, again out of my head, 162 million structurally. We have therefore taken into account last year's under-exhaustment. By the way, the good news is that this money from the Defence Department will simply remain available and will also be spent in the coming years. The Prime Minister referred to that as well. Mr. Chairman. There were also a few questions about why, including Mr Slootweg and Mr Sneller. Mr Nijboer referred to this as well. After all, it's a combination of a number of things that make this play for the Defense Department and for Infrastructure. If you look at 2018 it has to do with the moment when the cabinet started. The cabinet started on 26 October 2017 and has deliberately wanted to be ambitious from the start. That means that much had to be done in that run-up. It has worked on a lot of subjects. The directors of Infrastructure and Defence have worked very hard on this, but that has not been fully achieved, I will simply be honest about it. At the same time, we have spent many billions more on all issues, but certainly also on these two. The second reason why things are going less fast than we want is that on these two issues there have been such huge sums of money and here you see the downside of something that we have previously described as very positive with each other, namely the state of the Dutch economy, combined with the fantastic employment we have at the moment. Had we had this money for infrastructure about five or six years ago, it would have been much easier to get builders to work. Then it would have been much easier to spend some of the money on the defense. We're dealing with this dynamic. After the discussion in the cabinet, I also looked explicitly with the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Defence at what we can do to spend that money on good plans. The rulers are the first to want that very much, because they stand in front of their own shop and they want us to do those things that society needs, in this case safety and accessibility and transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u196	When it comes to rewinding the movie, I can totally follow it, but what I don't quite understand is how it goes from the supplementary post to the Ministry. Then there will be a check by the Ministry of Finance whether this can be issued and whether the spending plans are correct and then it is wrong. Then what goes wrong in that last link?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u197	In my view, the spending plans are correct in themselves, but sometimes delays occur in the execution. Some of you in your committee will know that situation much better than I do, because they are also on the Committee on Infrastructure. See what is happening at the moment for all infrastructure projects in the Netherlands, whether it is a road or a building or someone who buys a new apartment and wants to build a kitchen. It's pretty hard to get someone to work. I understand very well that there will then be a delay in the execution of these projects, because we are facing enormous scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u198	But if I am a minister and I ask about the Spring Note to add that to my budget, then I will show my spending plan and then the Minister of Finance will also see whether it is likely that it will be spent this year before it is transferred to the departmental budget? The annual report is then left behind, even though we have already issued the warning as to whether it will be possible to do so. This creates volatility in these budgets, which means that this under-exhaustment remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u199	We'll make sure it's plausible. At the same time, we have a very broad desire to invest. If in any case it is reasonable and the Ministry is doing its best, it is also strange to turn it around and say as the Ministry of Finance: 'we keep the money in the bag'. I would also be accused of spoiling the game by colleagues in the cabinet and certainly by the Chamber, because it would say: 'Listen, that was the deal'. I cannot promise, I say to Mr Sneller and to Mr Van Dijck, that this is not going to happen in the future, albeit to a much lesser extent, I hope, for the simple reason that employment has developed over the last few months in such a way that it has become even tighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u200	That's my fear, too. I think we share it. This means that around the Spring Paper it was reasonably likely that it would still be published in 2018 and that it just didn't work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u201	Of course, we make the best possible assessment. But I can remember the debate on the Spring Note, which we are actually already practicing for this year, last year. At that point in time, we said, I believe, that this was also prudent, that we took into account significant underspending. That was the discussion at the time. To be honest, it was the other way, because at least I can remember one of the spokesmen who accused me at the time: why are you throwing the towel in the ring? Then he said, "Why are you giving up now?" I think the cabinet is looking for the reasonable center.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u202	I'd still like to see how far you're going with answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u203	I was done with this block. I have "other" left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u204	Well, I'd like to suggest the Minister finish this. Then the spokesperson will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u205	Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked a few more questions about the accelerated execution of seized goods. I will immediately confess that the answer to the question of whether its value would be too much reduced was to disintegrate my level of parate knowledge. I can therefore, after consultation with the JenV Ministry, inform him that an integral take-off monitor is being worked on. It also takes into account the findings of the WODC report Integrally taking away criminal assets. The reporting process will also be reviewed. But I must say that it must not be forgotten that confiscating goods can have different purposes, including truth finding. That is, of course, different from making these goods money again. But I found the idea so interesting that I will also turn my own light on it with the rulers of Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. The question about the MBO has been answered by the Prime Minister. Mr Van Dijck asked about Syria and the cost of asylum. I think the Prime Minister said something about that. We don't keep these costs apart. I wouldn't know how we'd track that either. We keep track of the costs of, for example, the COA, the IND and the institutes. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the traffic jams and what conclusions we draw. I have noted with interest the results of the Court's investigation. A previous cabinet decided to increase the speed limit, as this would be more in line with the wishes of those who wish to transport themselves. It also plays a role in reducing travel time. Of the 8% reduction mentioned in the Court's report, decision-making indicated that this is a theoretical ceiling and that the actual reduction will be lower. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked about the police officers. I think that question was answered in writing earlier by JenV. The Prime Minister has already addressed the questions about youth care. Then Mr Slootweg asked about the health offices. Are they now equipped with the right instruments to measure? The introduction of the quality framework will require more than 37,000 additional FTEs in 2022 compared to 2016. In the quality plans with institutions, healthcare offices have agreed on improving care and the efficient use of additional resources. Part of this will also include the recognition of public health spokesmen that agreements have been made on the increase in the staff needed. If it were to be the case that nursing homes do not comply with these agreements, then it would also be possible to recover, offset and cut back, although that is not the intention in itself. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins was quite right to ask about the revolving funds. I agree with many, more philosophical things that he has put forward during his contribution, but I also very practically endorse the notion of purity of concepts. A revolving fund should not be a label of a grant scheme. By the way, history shows that we politicians sometimes find it difficult to continue to dedicate what was meant for something. My cautious observation is that funds are not always an exception. But I will continue to report on this particular issue, at least to the Millions Note. I will reply briefly to Mr Bruins' question about reflection on the models. That is in fact in line with Mr Nijboer's third M, namely the people. I think those models help us all, that they are needed to be informed about policies. These are my words, but the president of the planning agency has said something else, but actually something similar: we occasionally suffer from purchasing power places fetishism. Then we talk for a very long time about the last piece behind the decimal point, while we all agree with Mr Bruins and I know that that reality has been compressed into a table of numbers. That's different from what's being experienced at the kitchen table. Then we'll be back with the one who does have a job instead of a benefit. Financially, it matters, but of course, it matters a lot for someone's life's happiness. So I very much share Mr Bruins' notion that we really need to see this in the tool category and that we should not make it absolute. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has already referred to the pension debate for the questions on pensions, but today was indeed Mr Van Rooijen's last debate. We sometimes had the impression that it was his last debate and then I complimented him and thanked him for his input and critical questions. At that time I also noticed that it is my expectation that at some point, long after we all left, he will again be at the gate and that I think we all admire his eternal youth. And, Mr President, has anyone ever reminded you that Mr Van Rooijen has also been Secretary of State in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u206	We've all missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u207	That is sometimes overlooked. Mr President, I think that brings me to the end of my block 'other'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u208	All right, thank you. I see you standing, Mr. Nijboer. There's something I'd like to say first. You all have a second term and almost everyone had extensive speaking time. There has also been extensive interruptions and that is why I really want to allow one short question and about the rest I would like to say: second term. Mr. Nijboer, set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u209	Mr President, I do not have so much a question. I had asked another question about incidental and structural...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u210	Fine, that's fine. That has indeed not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u211	... under-utilization and which departments are responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u212	In Mr Nijboer's wording, however, there is a bit of a decision that the cabinet would not want to share, and I would at least like to take away any misunderstanding about that. I believe that I have also promised earlier that we will come back to the Chamber on what is occasional and what is structural. If you run into under-utilisation, it becomes final every now and then near the annual limit and it is difficult to say exactly what is occasional and what is structural. I will be able to answer some of them in the debate on the Spring Note, but a piece will really have to wait until the Million Note and thus until the debate on the Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u213	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u214	I will come back to this in the second term, but part of the 5.2 billion will be taken away. 2.2 billion of them go to infrastructure and defense. That's on the budget, and that means you have 3 billion left. I just want to know exactly which part of the 3 billion goes below that 1% standard, so that it does not damage expenditure, and which part goes to the repayment of public debt. I just think that's a very fair question. I have also asked this question a few times before, even in debates, but in the written answer I only get the answer: most of it goes with me. It's about 2 billion, and that's more than the Empire spends a year on the MBO! So it's a very reasonable question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u215	I would very much like to look again at the precision of those answers, but I honestly believe that I have answered them several times more than in good faith. But I will study it and, if necessary, I will provide Mr Nijboer with an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u216	Mr. Alkaya, only if a question hasn't been answered. You've really done most of everyone's interruptions. So, has there been any question left? If not, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u217	No, Mr President, but I am the only one to do justice to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u218	Well... No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u219	We're still accountable to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u220	Sure. I see you're being hugged by Mr Van Raan! You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u221	I'd go against your rules, and I wouldn't dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u222	Well, thank you. You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u223	What authority you have, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u224	I'm glad those MPs are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u225	The question asked, but not answered, about the CAP and the Minister's statement that the CAP needs a new review. He was served by the Court of Auditors at his beck and call, which states that it is indeed wrong and that there are indeed many things wrong with it. I would like to reflect on what responsibility he is going to take. What's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u226	What I said about this is entirely in line with government policy. We believe that, if you look at the expenditure of the European Union, it is necessary to reform it. Mr Van Raan may not like this, but the cabinet believes that the Netherlands has an extremely effective agricultural sector, but that this is not the case anywhere in Europe. Then you have to ask yourself whether agriculture in those other places in Europe should continue to be financed in this way. In addition, I have made critical comments on how we spend cohesion money. There the problem of the cabinet is certainly not less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u227	That is what I see as a review of subsidies in the CAP. Then we'll see what that's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u228	We have to be careful not to draw too frivolous conclusions, so I would suggest to Mr Van Raan that we resume this debate with the Minister of LNV. I'm sure he's looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u229	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister... Oh, the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u230	Can I just say something? I told Mr Van Rooijen he was talking nonsense. I think that's too short a turn. I take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u231	Look. It's also nice to see someone taking something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u232	Even if it takes time, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u233	Mr. Chairman. That is a good basis for further discussion across the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u234	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u235	That's a nice way of doing it. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you all for the first-term input. Surely it is a special time for me to be here as Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I even think it's a scoop in a way, but I think it's good and I think it's important. Questions have also been asked today about ICT, information security, business management. Traditionally, a large part of the debate is also about this, hence the agreement that I am also in charge of coordinating matters of this kind. I think that is a good step, but I also realise very well that this has given me a certain responsibility. Let me say straight away to all those who have raised the issues of ICT and information security here. In other words, I share their concern. That is why last October, the cabinet decided to give the Minister of State extra powers in this area and to tackle the problems with real authority. I sent a letter to the Chamber in October. That is the way we want to deal with it. That won't solve it overnight. I am not under any illusions at all on this point, but we think that we have taken a step in the right direction. I'm going to go through the questions that have been asked about this and start with Mr Van 't Wout, who also spoke about it first. He asked the cabinet, and in particular me, to really come up with a clear and convincing plan on how we're going to improve that information security. He also asked to make the Chamber clear not only how we do that, but also to provide a planning. He asked for interim reports. Other members then made similar comments. I sent a multi-annual plan to the Chamber in February. We call that the Strategic I Agenda 2019-2021. That's what it's about. This is an approach consisting of state-wide measures. How do we improve control? How do we improve and share knowledge and skills? How can we attract ICT talent? In short, a plan of action including firm measures. And that, as far as I'm concerned, is the starting point, the starting point from which we have to work. By the way, there is an AO scheduled on 3 July, the AO Functional State Service, in which these pieces are scheduled. Information security and ICT are not just tough and complex subjects, but are also subjects that are actually constantly moving. I believe that Mr Van 't Wout asked: can you say that before 1 January this year it will be much better or perhaps it will be resolved? I'm sure if I promised that, I'd promise too much. I couldn't live up to that. However, I can promise that we will take firm measures and map them in a structural manner, just as we need to better identify the vulnerabilities of the ICT systems of the Empire. In other words, what I can say is that we have a plan of action and that we take these measures in a structured and joint manner, that is to say with all the other colleagues from the cabinet. And there's a coordination at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would also like to say that your Chamber will be informed of this in a letter in the autumn. It will describe the progress of all these state-wide measures on ICT, on information security. And, of course, I will also say that the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, which are simply knocking down in the individual departments, are being taken up and monitored. So it must not be lost, without any insight, but the departments must take the actions they have to take, and they must follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. We need to monitor this and I will ensure that your Chamber will also be informed of this by means of a progress report in the autumn. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller of D66 pointed out that ICT and information security deficiencies were higher this year. That's right. I can't take anything away from that either. The rise is probably partly caused by the fact that the world is changing and that new things are being asked of the government. But at least it is a clear signal that we really need to get to work in order to guarantee that necessary level of information security. And the most pressing flaws must be addressed as quickly as possible. It is never nice to hear from the Court of Auditors that there are shortcomings, and it is certainly not nice to hear that there are more, across the board, and also in my own department. But it's a good thing we know, because what you know, you can handle it. So we are also in the mood to do so. Mr Slootweg also asked about this report, which I already made a commitment about in the direction of Mr Van 't Wout. Mr Slootweg suggested reporting four times a year. My proposal would be to do it twice a year, also just to not overburden the reporting burden. I hope that Mr Slootweg and others can live with that. Of course, as much of the commitment as possible should go to the actual improvement of information security and ICT, but I am very aware that the Chamber has expectations and that it can only monitor them if they are reported on a regular basis. So my proposal is to do that twice a year. Mr Snels asked: why can't you really identify how much government spends on maintaining certain systems? Can I make better arrangements about the administration within that government? This is an understandable question, and I think it is right. But the Court of Auditors also says that it is not easy to collect information about ICT management and its costs. And there's something else going on. I think we often focus on the major ICT projects, and thus less on management in its entirety. IT is basically everywhere, and everything behind it. Sometimes you start with a project that applies to me and to my colleagues because you want to change or improve something, or because you have been given a new task, and that is a lot of attention. But of course there will also be a lot of costs in ICT management because, as I said, ICT is actually behind everything. That's a bit underexplained, isn't it? But we've started. For example, in collaboration with the Tax Administration, we are now testing in a pilot form with the inclusion of ICT management activities on the state-wide ICT dashboard, so that we can get a more complete picture. In that strategic agenda that I just mentioned, it says that I want a thorough evaluation and a further development of the Rijks ICT dashboard, because I think that dashboard provides the steering information that can structurally improve accountability about the management and accountability about the maintenance that has to be done. But you're gonna have to build up and make up for that control information first. So I will be able to set additional frameworks, where necessary, based on this new way of working, with the additional powers laid down by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, without losing sight of the diversity of the entire ICT landscape. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union also had a number of more specific questions. He asked why I do not create a generic framework for governance, risk and compliance for IT management within the Empire. He also asked how you could continue to work on the same point that Mr Snels made, namely the responsibility for the maintenance of ICT. Could you standardize that further? Are we still able to make concrete agreements on this further along this route? In response to his rather specific questions, I would like to say a little more generically that I agree with that, but we must realise that I know that Mr Bruins does this like no other, that ICT within the government is so diverse and so complex. I have just said that the Court of Auditors agrees with that. It remains the case that the ministries themselves are responsible for their ICTs and should even be able to make demands on their ICTs to do justice to their own responsibilities, but that I do see and agree that it is really necessary to be able to manage the risks properly. I therefore hope that this dashboard, which I have just mentioned, will provide us with the necessary steering information, so that we will indeed be able to report better and structuralally, including to your Chamber, on the ICT systems in the future. Moreover, the Court recommended that better arrangements be made between the CIO Rijk and the CIOs of the departments on information sharing. I think that is also a very logical follow-up. So I take this recommendation to heart and I would like to take it on board. As a result, Mr Bruins also said, at least he suggested that perhaps you should have management in order before starting new projects. That's a logical thought. He also suggested that BIT should play a role in this. First of all, every minister, every ruler, must make that assessment. That sounds good to me, too. There are projects that are intended to replace old systems or some old systems, but of course new projects are also needed because of new services, because of new wishes, things that we want to do or which we have agreed here with each other that we will do but which are not yet there, and which also require a system. So every time that consideration has to be made. The BIT is already fully involved in the review of ICT projects. I do know that Mr Raymond Knops, the Secretary of State for BZK, who is formally responsible for BIT, will present a letter in the autumn on the future positioning of BIT. He will deal with a number of issues. I shall pass on Mr Bruins' comment to him, so that he can perhaps come back to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of things that are a little bit more about the state's personnel policy. Mr Alkaya, as well as others, have asked questions about this and found that there are staff shortages in certain public services. Of course, that's just a fact. The Court of Auditors has said that there should actually be a better and more strategic human resources policy with the Empire. Mr Alkaya and Mr Bruins have also said that it is important for the cabinet to ensure that the government is an attractive employer, that people want to work there. I think the Empire is indeed a very attractive employer. For anyone who wants to work with passion on the public cause, there is very interesting work at the government. Fortunately, the Empire also scores well in investigations into attractive employership. We have had research done, and that has also been shared with the Chamber. This research is translated again by the departments into the various multi-annual staff plans that they should have completed by the end of this year. In other words, I very much support the objective that we must do everything we can to remain an attractive employer. Things like the common traineeship and the labour market campaigns for ICTs are examples of how we can and should do that, given the current labour market. Of course, you can go wider. The investments just mentioned by both the Prime Minister and Mr Hoekstra are, of course, important to us, but they are also investments in a sector in which people are needed and in which people have to shape policy. They have an incredibly important task; a public task. We have to do everything we can to make people want and work there. Mr. Chairman. I've already said something about what the Empire is doing to be attractive as an employer. Maybe there's something else I can add. Mr Van 't Wout specifically asked for this. He talked about competition that could occur between different parts of the Empire. We are indeed aware of that. However, it is sometimes good to start highly targeted recruitment campaigns, but then it is wise not to compete with each other if you know that you are fishing in the same pond. That's what's gonna happen. Think about police and defense. You'd better hang out. The same applies to ICT. There is no point in competing with each other to bring in the scarce ICT talent we need. That's why we started a state-wide ICT training program. Mr Snels was somewhat concerned about the quality of service, also as a result of successive cuts that he had pointed out. It was just about that: you can see that wage developments in the public sector are following wage developments in the market. We know the bottlenecks there. We also know that there are different collective bargaining tables. We know that the sectors mentioned receive a cabinet contribution each year based on the average contract wage development in the market. That's the system we work with. In general, that appears to be sufficient. I would like to comment on a suggestion made by Mr Sneller. He said that if we go on like this, the women in the government won't get along very well. The same could be said of financial spokesmen, but that would of course be very faint and do no justice at all to the quality of the input of the financial spokesmen today. But I noticed. Mr Sneller said: perhaps you should agree that in every application committee from scale 14, I think he said a woman should sit. I actually think that's a nice idea. In any case, it supports my policy of getting as many women as possible into top positions. It's not bad, but it's not getting anywhere. We all know that the composition of application committees matters. So I'm taking that suggestion with me and I'm going to see how I can anchor that state-wide, because I do think it could contribute to the goal. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u237	A quick question. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u238	On the last point, I would like to inform the Minister that, as far as my knowledge is concerned, it has not been demonstrated that more women in selection committees also lead to more women being adopted. Sometimes even the opposite is true. So I would like to say: please examine it thoroughly before we do anything that either does not help or might even be counterproductive. Indeed, I wholeheartedly support the objective we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u239	I'm very happy with that last one anyway. I said I liked the suggestion and I took it with me. I myself think it is important to have an eye for that and that it might help, but I have heard Mr Bruins' comment. Again, I am very pleased with his conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u240	Sure. We know that in groups that have more diversity better decision-making takes place, so in that sense... Well, I gave you everything I had to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u241	I was a little worried about the latter when I made a spontaneous comment on the composition of today's spokesmen. But that was not the way I intended it, I say to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u242	Now a demand has remained, namely on the STEP grant, the subsidy to sustain and isolate social housing. There just wasn't enough money in there. This subsidy was discontinued on 1 July 2018. It is striking that a lot of money was left behind at the end of the year. Why isn't there just more money spent on isolating social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u243	That's a good question. I heard that one, too. I think that this question is actually more appropriate in a debate that you are holding with me as Minister responsible for Living. That question undoubtedly comes back to that, but the answer for now should be that it is because, of course, we always have to look at the different measures in a coherent way. This is an important measure. At the same time, we are working on a comprehensive agreement on climate, including in the built environment. Housing insulation will have to be an extremely important part of that. That total weighing will also come back to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u244	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u245	Thank you, Mr President. As a nestor of the Finance Committee, I will set an example and confine myself to two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u246	Very good. Good example does follow well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u247	The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the VAT increase on messages and the increase in energy taxation and to eliminate its own risk and to use the budget surplus and the reduction of the Vpb for multinationals as cover,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u248	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the asylum permits of all Syrians admitted to the Netherlands in order to prevent the right of permanent residence after five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find Mr Van Dijck so inspiring that I will not even table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u250	Look! A good example, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u251	That is also because I have at least been given a commitment on one important subject for me. I'm going to look critically at how that frame-Van 't Wout is going to be filled, because it's not so much about that name, of course, but about what's written there. Mr. Chairman. One point did disappoint me in replying to the cabinet. That was the answer on information security. I wonder what is different in that answer from what I have heard from the Cabinets in the last two years. There are really big concerns about this. We can't get that all worked out right now, but apparently there's an AO before the summer that's specifically about ICT and government, as the minister just said. The Minister referred to a very broad agenda on ICT issues that is being discussed there. My point is that everyone understands how complicated the marriage government ICT is in the broad sense, but that we are just dealing very acutely with security issues. We in the Chamber should be sitting behind the cabinet for the third year in a row, because that has to be resolved. We will not be able to resolve that tonight, but I would like to ask the Minister to come forward with a letter in the run-up to that AO which states how she is going to speed up information security specifically. That statewide is all very well, but there really needs to be extra gas here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u252	Thank you, Mr. Van 't Wout. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers from the cabinet. I think this is an important debate. At the same time, we notice that this is being done at a different intensity and at a different pace. Maybe that's part of the accounting debate. I was pleased, very pleased with the Prime Minister's commitment to carry out a review of policy variables that have a relationship with the Broad Prosperity Monitor, so that that monitor can also play a role in the policy process in a certain way. The first experiences in New Zealand would play a role in this. I like to hear in second term how, what and when. I also welcomed the commitment of the Minister of Finance to pay attention to this in the Millions Note. In my view, there was an earlier motion from me which I held at his request and which expired a long time ago. But in the end, it's a bit of a turtle, you still get a commitment that I think is important. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I drew attention to the good examples from the business community when it comes to drawing up annual reports. We are often critical of business, large business and the accountancy sector. That certainly applies to my party. At the same time, I think it would be a good time for business to look at us and the way in which government and politics are accountable. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas projects such as Understanding Quality, the Broad Prosperity Monitor and the improvement of the implementation of Article 3.1 of the Compatability Act are important for better linking policy initiatives from the budget and accountability in the annual report;]] [[Considering that both the Cabinet and the Chamber are working seriously to improve the quality of public policy through these projects;]] [[Whereas we are still far removed from the ideal of an integral accountability of the effects of public policies, as noted, inter alia, by the General Court;]] [[Whereas the work here is done primarily by ourselves.the Chamber, the Cabinet and the Departments, with little inspiration from outside while there are good examples of integrated annual reports in business;]] [[calls on the Government to ask a committee of business and accountancy people to advise, with a view from the outside, on how, taking into account the above-mentioned projects, the government could establish a better link between the budget and the annual report and report on this before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u254	I'd just like to take a good look at why this should be a committee. I would like to ask that question, also for the consideration I will have to make later on. When I hear this, I wonder why you choose the instrument to have the Empire set up a committee. Why not a hearing and then an own-initiative paper? You're gonna put all this down with the Cabinet in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u255	I've been thinking about that, too. You could organize a hearing or a day. Firstly, I would not want this to be a very large-scale committee. It must be quite small: ask a few business people who have experience of this and have good examples of annual reports to look at the government. However, this requires that those people from the business community take some insight into Quality and Article 3.1.Compatibility law and the projects we carry out together as Chambers and Cabinets actually mean. The same applies to the Monitor Brede Prosperity. This means that they should be able to do some work and report on it. I'd like that. At the same time, I don't want to make it too big. Perhaps it could even be taken into account in the reconnaissance promised by the Prime Minister. This depends on the Prime Minister's second-term replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u256	I would at least like to thank my colleague, but I do not know if my enthusiasm is growing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u257	You still have until Tuesday to work on it. Mr. Slootweg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're so used to having multiple motions. I'm surprised myself. I don't have a motion either. I would like to thank the Cabinet, in particular for the commitments in the field of the monitor and the sustainable development goals. I agree with the critical remark made by Mr Van 't Wout, because I too feel that the intensity of the words may increase, but that it is not clear where it will lead. I totally agree that reporting itself can never be the target, so twice no problem. When I read the Court of Auditors' report, there is also a very serious danger of new legislation and what can still be done. I really think that is a point where our task, including as a co-legislator, is going to be at risk at a time when things can no longer be done. We've seen that in the IRS. Some introduction simply can't do it anymore, because ICT is not up to it. I would just like to hear a few more words about how this is going to be resolved in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u259	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u260	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, there's gonna be another wind. I have three motions. First of all, on purchasing power. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the promised purchasing power growth has not been realised in 2018 and that about one in three households has surrendered purchasing power;]] [[further noted that a substantial surplus in the budget was achieved in 2018 and that a significant surplus was again expected to occur this year;]] [[whereas the Dutch public debt is relatively low;]] [[calls on the government to take additional measures to compensate households for the loss of purchasing power growth in 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u261	And then a motion specifically to address the inequality between labour and capital and to make the profits realised also benefit the people in the workplace. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the profits of companies have doubled in five years, but that the shareholders in particular benefit from them, rather than the employees;]] [[also noted that wages have been lagging behind economic growth and productivity growth for years;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to distribute a larger proportion of the profits to employees, for example in the form of profit sharing, and to present policy options on this matter to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u262	Finally, a motion on youth care. This can also be seen as support for the cabinet. I'm curious. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities are experiencing major deficits in the implementation of youth care, which has led 276 aldermen, supported by health care institutions, parents and clients, to take the remarkable step towards alarming these deficits in an open letter;]] [[Considers that in previous years too much savings have been made on youth care, which means that the 12% increase in the number of clients cannot be met;]] [[whereas the government pays money for youth care but this is far behind the amount required and is not structural;]] [[calls on the government to invest 750 million in youth care in 2019 and to make this amount structural at a later stage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u263	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the directors for their reply. I think it has turned out to be a serious debate, even if it was a few weeks later than planned. I would like to join with the Prime Minister in saying that it is disciplined to take a moment to reflect on and reflect on it. I was also pleased with his input this time in the field of the Broad Prosperity Monitor and I thank him for the commitment to carry out that exploration to see if we can integrate it. I was glad that was given a more serious treatment than last year. I wonder if he can give a reflection on the quality of the performance and the words of Herman Tjeenk Willink, as I mentioned in the first term. Otherwise it will undoubtedly come back, because it is important that we keep it in mind together and not just occasionally. Then for the Minister of Finance, the legality. I hope that the extent to which he feels that responsibility was not in the number of words about it. It is not as Mr Nijboer said it was rising and now falling. It's been going backwards in small steps since 2012. It's marginal every time, but it's getting worse. In the legislative consultation we will come to talk to him about his own annual report, the estimates and the supplementary item. Finally, two more questions for the Minister for the Interior. They say everything you pay attention to is growing. I hope that will not be the case with the shortcomings in information security. The minister said she's taking that I agenda as her starting point. I agree with what has been said on this point that this is the starting point, but not the end point. The recommendations of the Court of Auditors actually have those requirements. Some of them are government regulations from 2012. Finally, thank you for the commitment to take a serious look at the inclusion of at least one woman in the application committee. The Finance Committee does not have an application committee, otherwise it would certainly have gone better. I would like to receive a written response to the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u264	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So at the end of this debate two notions and one motion. The first is that I am pleased that there is a broader recognition that there is a real problem with the purchasing power of low and middle incomes and the distribution of the economic cake. The VVD came as the main topic today. It's traditional. I also heard the SP talk about capital labor. That appeals even more to me in terms. If there is a wider support for this in the Chamber, I hope that will lead to very different choices. In summary: less for multinationals, more for people. But that obviously has implications for the public budget in the future. The second notion is that I think that the justification for how you can have 5.2 billion underspending is not as convincing as we spend on the entire academic education or on the MBO per year. That road building takes a lot of time and that the labour market was a little tight was also known at the end of last year. Mr Sneller said at the additional post that you are reviewing plans. That's where we figured it out, and you won't get it published. I think that's pretty good questions. That is a political view. I'll give it to you. That's a notion. I have a motion that really deals with the House's information position. Apart from the political view that this 5.2 billion could have been spent better, I believe that the Chamber has the right to know exactly what is going on. I have already asked for this in the Navy's note, and I am now doing it again in motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there was an under-utilisation of expenditure of 5,2 billion in 2018;]] [[Whereas the Court should have an insight into its impact on the various budget headings;]] [[calls on the government to provide as much insight as possible into the occasional and structural components of the various failures;]] [[calls on the government to make clear which part of the 5.2 billion will remain available for the specific budgets in the coming years and for which part this does not apply, and to make a breakdown between the different budgets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u267	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u268	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers. I would particularly like to thank the Prime Minister for the way in which he paid attention to D-day, 75 years ago. That was very impressive. I was able to track that remotely, and I've appreciated that very much. I have two motions. The first is about broad prosperity, which we want to give each other an increasingly important role in the policy cycle. That starts with the framework on which we all base our electoral programmes. In order to take a step there, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, in the run-up to a new cabinet period, the study groups on Budgetary Space and Sustainable Economic Growth are invited to advise on the next cabinet period;]] [[noting that the members of these study groups, alongside senior officials and directors of DNB and CPB, are not directors or other staff of SCP and PBL;]] [[Whereas these study groups are independent and the composition is the responsibility of the presidents;]] [[Whereas steps have been taken at the initiative of the Court to better anchor broad prosperity in policy-making and accountability, as witnessed, for example, the CBS's Responsible Day Monitor Brede Welvaart;]] [[Whereas the crisis and the budgetary policy pursued at the time are important to continuously draw lessons and, in addition to ensuring sound and stable public finances, to take into account a healthy and stable society and living environment;]] [[calls on the government to ask the presidents of these study groups to also invite the directors of the SCP and PBL as members with regard to the composition of the study groups on Budgetary Space and Sustainable Economic Growth,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Snelter, Mr Snels, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Nijboer and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u269	And my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court states that there is insufficient attention to the maintenance of existing ICT systems and that there is no unambiguous information on the cost of maintaining ICT systems;]] [[calls on the Government, in the current analysis of the potential future scenarios of the BIT, to explicitly examine the possibility of extending the scope of the task with scrutiny and advice on maintenance and information security issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Slootweg, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u270	I will amend this motion because I have not been able to read all the considerations in the two minutes I had.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u271	Fine. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u272	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have three motions. Perhaps there is still time to make two comments, if I may. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the climate crisis poses a major threat to life on Earth;]] [[noting that several countries and cities worldwide have now declared climate emergencies;]] [[Considers that the designation of climate emergency status is a strong recognition of the joint mission to make a maximum effort to limit global warming as much as possible;]] [[calls for the climate emergency situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u273	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the sixth wave of extinction is in full swing;]] [[Considers that the declaration of biodiversity distress is a strong recognition of the joint mission to make a maximum effort to protect and restore biodiversity;]] [[calls for biodiversity emergencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u274	Motion three. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Broad Prosperity Monitor once again makes it clear that the current economic system is not sustainable;]] [[Whereas it is important to take into account other major exceedances of the earth's capacity when developing climate policy;]] [[calls on the government to ask the scientific offices to develop comprehensive policy options that could lead to at least half the Dutch ecological footprint by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u275	Finally, I would like to make two comments. At least today the Prime Minister did not want to answer in the first term about the abuses in the Dutch cattle industry. We explicitly asked him if he thinks it is a good state of the cattle industry. He didn't really want to answer about the, yes, almost Ruttian way in which the European Commission has kept uncomfortable reports on the impact of the livestock industry on the climate. Maybe he'll come back to this in the second term. I would like to congratulate him on the interpretation and commitment to work more with the Monitor Brede Welvaart. That is also in line with the adopted Van Raan/Beckerman motion of 20 June 2018. That's very encouraging. I would therefore like to conclude with a compliment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u276	I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS. Everyone is curious about Mr Van Rooijen's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u277	You mustn't provoke him, Mr. President! Well, I guess I'd better start with that. I saved her for the last time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a second State Secretary for Finance, one of whom is solely responsible for the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u278	Are you available?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u279	Once it was said at formations: "I am called!" That doesn't make sense to me in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u280	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u281	I'll continue with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas wage developments are lagging behind economic growth, and according to the CBS, economic growth is concentrated mainly on companies and public authorities;]] [[Whereas the development of the minimum wage and associated benefits cannot or will not keep up with the increase in the cost of living;]] [[calls on the government to increase the legal minimum wage by 3% in the shortest possible time, on top of regular indexation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas long-term interest rates (UFR) for pension funds are much lower than for insurers;]] [[calls on the Government to take the view that pension funds should be subject to the same long-term interest rate as insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-26]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u282	Today, June 6th, D-day. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the RVU levy is unduly imposed on the Defence Department because there is a statutory functional age discharge and therefore there is no VRS or pre-pension scheme, or a "false construction';]] [[Whereas, for that reason, defence should have been excluded from the RVU levy;]] [[whereas the defence industry still does not have a collective agreement;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the 52% tax on RVU from the Defence Department and to return the EUR 150 to 175 million that the tax now costs to the Ministry of Defence annually with retroactive effect to Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u283	Finally, I look forward to the debates with the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u284	In the First Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u285	... and with the Ministers of Finance and the Interior, in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u286	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u287	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u288	Mr. Chairman. I assume that this judgment will be given to Chamber: one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands scored low on the theme "environment and raw materials," according to the Brede Welvaart 2019 Monitor,]] [[Whereas this is due inter alia to imports of metals and fossil energy sources from developing countries;]] [[Whereas our prosperity must not be at the expense of the poorest and most vulnerable people in developing countries in particular;]] [[calls on the Government to take full account of the effects of our action on developing countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u289	The cabinet almost needed a second finance minister. There was the briefcase that Mr Sneller gave me, but I think I should give it back. With your permission, I'll go first, because I'm a little bit on hot coal in connection with a flight I have to catch, as you know. One comment and then the motions. To Mr Sneller, I would like to stress once again that I agree with him when he says that it is possible that it is a trend when it comes to the shortcomings. We take it very seriously. I have just tried to say this to Mr Nijboer, but to avoid any misunderstandings, I would like to emphasise it once again. I also said it to the Court of Auditors. I only deal with the motions that lie in my policy area. The first motion by Mr Van Dijk, on item No. 13, I must advise against. The cabinet has made other choices. Moreover, the Commission's nestor should know that 'incidental' and'structural' is really something else. In addition, he does not consider the end-of-year margin. If I were in a really bad mood, I'd have the motion in part no. 15 by Mr Snels. Frankly, I would like to ask: please hold this motion. You are, of course, inspired by the inspiration that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance thinks it can find in the business community. That's a milestone in itself. But then again a committee, and even a small committee, which became smaller as the explanation advanced, that seems to me to be a bit complicated. I would like to agree that we are holding the motion and that we are looking at the Ministry of Finance to see what we can learn from the best annual reports of business. It's all being tracked. That is what we are trying to bring along, including, for example, the Millions Note. If there is still a need to do more, we will undoubtedly resume this debate. If I can't get along like this, I'll be pushed slowly in the direction of dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u290	Mr. Snels, very briefly. Are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u291	I'll keep her on and then I'll wait for the million-dollar note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u292	At the request of Mr Snels, I propose his motion (35200, No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u293	The motion in part No. 16 I must also advise against, because of all kinds of things in the preamble, such as the fact that public debt is low. Nor does it tolerate the choice made by the cabinet. The same applies to the motion in part No. 17. It compares apples with pears. I know Mr Alkaya's view on business profits, but this is not the way to link up with one another as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. I shall then be with Mr Alkaya and the motion for a resolution on item No. 18. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too. Oh, it's about social services. It's not for me. It's for the Secretary of State. Let me keep it exciting for a while. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 19 belongs to Mr Nijboer. I think I have already de facto said that I leave the judgement to the Chamber. That won't surprise you. As far as timing is concerned, I would like to stress once again that this will not be all tomorrow. Part of that conversation is for the Spring Note, and part of it we have that conversation following the Million Note. But that's the research we're doing. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 20. Honestly, I'd like to dissuade them, too. We'll make it this formal again. Let us suggest to the Budget Group that they consult those whom they believe is necessary, and specifically suggest to do so in the corner they are asked to do so. To be honest, that seems even better to me. If I could agree to that with the Chamber and if I could promise to do so, we could leave the motion in this way for what it is. That is what I would like to ask Mr Bruins. I think he's the first petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u294	Very briefly. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u295	If I understand correctly, this is about the nuance between questions and suggestions. I'd like to give the Minister the space to interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u296	We have committees for all kinds of things. If we decide after maturity that people do want to consult but do not want to include them in the committee, then I find it complicated to force them to do so coûte que coûte. If I may agree in that way, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 25 by Mr Van Rooijen. It's not the first time he's submitted this thought, but I really have to dissuade it in this form. For the motion by Mr Van Rooijen and Mrs Van Brenn to item No. 26 is the same. I'll be at the motion in part No. 28. Especially given the A and O of Mr Van Rooijen's ideas in everything related to pensions... Oh, no, excuse chairman. This motion is about the RVU tax. I find that complicated. The Secretary of State and the Minister of Defence are in negotiations. I don't want to get involved in that. That is really not wise, and I should not do that through this place and by way of a motion. This is not helpful to any of the parties concerned. So I'm going to have to dissuade the motion. Apart from the three motions tabled by Mr Van Rooijen, which I have advised against, I look forward very much to the debates that we will continue, but to what you call 'the other side'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u297	I see you waving a piece of paper, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u298	The motion on long-term interest rates in part No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u299	It's probably left to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u300	Everything I've left behind is being wiped up by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u301	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u302	Thank you and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u303	Thank you, and have a nice trip, well, it's just work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u304	And he'll be back in three weeks, and I'll be there. Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions, to start with GroenLinks. That was Mr Snels' question about what the deadline is to use the Broad Prosperity Monitor more in the policy cycle. This could include reporting on results in the monitor, whether and how policies have contributed to this. This analysis will be carried out under the responsibility of the Ministers for Finance and Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, which should be ready in the autumn. Mr Sneller asked for implementation. In the Spring Paper of 2019, the Cabinet announced that it would take the initiative to formulate a task assignment for a problem analysis aimed at the implementation organisations. The Chamber will be informed more about this before Princess Day. There are a lot of things I can say about this implementation, but perhaps I can stick to that more procedural remark. The Van Dijck/Fritsma motion in part No. Fourteen I advise. We have a careful asylum procedure. The Alkaya motion in part No. 18 is uncovered. Moreover, I refer to my first-term reply, so this motion has been discouraged, referring to that part of the debate. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 22: dissuade. The same applies to the motion in part No. 23. On these kinds of motions, I always have to think a little about Mr. Micawber from David Copperfield, who was going to write guilty confessions and make everyone equally happy. Apparently, when we declare the climate crisis, the problem is solved. I don't think so. Let's just work on solving it and not symbolism. Then the Van Raan motion to part No. 24. There are indicators, but I do not think that this type of indicator is going to add much, so the motion in part No. Twenty-four, I'd like to dissuade you. The Van Rooijen/Van Brenn motion in part No. 26 has already been dealt with by my colleague from Finance, I think. Is that right? Yes. Then I come to the Van Rooijen motion on part No. 27. I have also mentioned this briefly in the debate. There will also be a major pension debate, and I think just like that in the First Chamber; quickly, without any doubt, at least in the General Reviews. I would like to refer to that and really advise against this motion, because we should not interfere as politicians. There are procedures for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u305	Before you proceed, Mr Van Raan on the previous motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u306	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. The motion on the ecological footprint is indeed linked to an indicator that already exists. It is in the Monitor Brede Welvaart, a later piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u307	What number?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u308	That's the motion in part No. 24 and I believe that the indicator is number 12, namely the cumulative CO-print. If, on the one hand, the Prime Minister says that he is going to work on integrating the Broad Prosperity Monitor into the policy cycles, for which I congratulated him, at the same time I appeal to him to set up a target for 2030 with an existing indicator, which is necessary. To guess it that way, that's both methodologically and technically wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u309	To make sure that we really tackle the climate problem, all kinds of conflicting indicators and targets are the last thing you need to want. The European Commission communicated and defined three side by side in 2014. We all know that things are gonna work on each other and then they're gonna work against each other. Then you are in the process of producing more renewable energy, which does not necessarily lead to a reduction in CO emissions. I am so pleased that we now have a single-minded target for 2030, which is to reduce CO emissions by 29% compared to 1990. Let's not throw things aside. We have all the underlying indicators we need. Perhaps Mr Van Raan could then continue the motion and engage in the debate on the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u310	I would certainly like to consider that, but I would like to point out that the essence of the Monitor Brede Prosperity is that it makes it clear that you have to make trade-offs between elements of which some can and others can not. Some choices are at the expense of other choices. It is precisely of the essence that the Monitor Brede Prosperity represents, that consideration, that the Prime Minister now says: let's not do that. Well, I don't think he got it right, but maybe we'll talk about that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u311	No. I work according to the doctrine "focus over synergy." If we really want to solve this epic job of the climate issue, I think we should stick to the one indicator we have for that. I do not agree with the motion in part No. 28. The cabinet believes that the RVU tax is rightly levied on the Defence Department, so we will continue to do so. The motion in part No. 28 is not recommended. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 29 gets judgment room. This is standing policy that is enshrined in our Integrated Weighting Framework for Policy and Regulation. The mandatory qualification requirement "impact on developing countries" provides a guide for policy staff and legislative lawyers to take care of important issues in the introduction of new policies, laws or regulations, but also in the question of what to do if expected effects on developing countries occur. The decision to introduce the quality requirement was communicated in the letter from the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation dated 18 May last year. So I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u312	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For those who have kept up with the administration, and I hope I have done the same, there is one more motion, the motion in part No. 21. But I've got a few more questions I'd like to answer first. First of all, Mr Van 't Wout's remark, which said that I have serious concerns about information security, and I did not think that the Minister's commitment really went far enough. In the second term, I would like to put the urgency in my words which I do feel about this subject, because, of course, information security is incredibly important. Of course I care and the whole cabinet will care if that information security is not in order. I have referred to a piece that is indeed somewhat broader than just information security. I have also referred to an AO which will soon be discussed. Let me say here, and at the same time undertake to say in a letter to the Chamber that it is really about not only knowing what is wrong, but also what concrete actions we are taking to ensure that it gets right. So when I say that we are working on the state-wide mapping of the vulnerabilities in ICT systems, we also want to take the step to improve actual security. Once again, if I was not urgent enough, I would now put that urgency in my words and do what Mr Van 't Wout asked, namely to give a letter on this matter, so that it would become even more clear to the Chamber what specific actions would be included. Mr Slootweg actually asked for the same urgency. He will find that in the letter reached by the Chamber on 3 July. I would also like to thank the CDA for agreeing to report twice a year. I would like to say to Mr Sneller that I will inform the Chamber of how to put together the application committees for scales 14 and above. Finally, the motion in part No. 21 by Mr Bruins and others We discussed this in the first place. I find the motion very sympathetic and I would like to leave it to the Chamber to decide on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u314	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate on accountability. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Interior, the MPs, the people in the gallery and others who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u315	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
