ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	We are now going to start the debate on a relaxation of the children's pardon. I welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and give Mr Wilders the floor first on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. That's how we remember the VVD. What a bunch of losers, what a bunch of cowards! What a capitulation for those left-wing drammers of the CDA and the Christian Union. And what a feast for all those illegals, all those migrants who want a residence permit here, all the people smugglers, all the foreign lawyers and the whole asylum industry. They have a great day today, because the relaxation of the children's pardon is a fact. Hundreds, maybe more than a thousand if we count the families, stay illegal. At the same time, the children's pardon is abolished. But don't think that the abolition of that child's pardon by the VVD itself will have any impression on the people of Africa. They now know one thing: that there is always a new pardon scheme in the Netherlands, that there are always parties that get weak knees, like the VVD or the CDA now. Mr. Chairman. We've seen that before. In 2007 a general pardon, extended in 2009. In 2013 a one-time children's pardon, from 2013 until now a child's pardon, and now in 2019 a relaxation of that pardon. And every time it was said, this is the last time. Every time! And every time that was a lie. Mr. Chairman. There's only one thing they hear in Africa today. Time and time again, illegals manage to get residence permits in the Netherlands, because lame politicians like Dijkhoff and Rutte get down their knees every time, because they bow to people who don't care about rules, who stay when they have to go, who ignore judicial decisions, who don't cooperate with an expulsion, who lie and cheat. The coalition agreement, as Mr Dijkhoff has said over and over again over and over again, was crystal clear and even offered him a hold. And by now, chairman, it's in the trash can. Lying after lying, that's how the VVD works. The VVD had been knee-deep in those luxurious bed-bath bread schemes for illegals before. And now they're bowing again to the children's pardon. Hundreds of judgments by the judge that call for asylum seekers to disappear from the Netherlands have been nullified in one blow. The VVD has thus placed illegals above the law, and that party should be ashamed of it. I am curious whether the ordinary Dutchman can now also ignore all these rules and judgments. Is it not or late payment of a tax charge by legal, hardworking Dutch people immediately tolerated? Of course not, Mr. Chairman. This extra coulance that the VVD is now putting in place only applies to illegal aliens. The ordinary Dutchman never gets anything from the VVD. They can only pay for the mess that that party creates, every time. The relaxation of that children's pardon will, of course, have a huge sucking effect. The Netherlands as eldorado of those asylum seekers around the world, thanks to that same VVD. The return figures had already collapsed, but now no rejected asylum seeker will leave the Netherlands. It has been ensured that the deception wins. Mr Dijkhoff said earlier that if he had the choice to drop the voter or the cabinet, he would certainly not drop the voter. Well, that's exactly what he did. In order to save the cabinet, to remain on the plush, illegal immigrants are reduced, immigration policy is relaxed and voters are deceived again. The VVD always promised to limit immigration, but instead breaks all inflow records. 400,000 non-Western immigrants, alone during the last five years of VVD administration. In fact, the Marrakech immigration pact was signed recently and the previous cabinet period was removed from the government agreement by the same VVD. And now the whole alien section is in the trash can. For what are the sentences of the coalition agreement still worth, like, page 50 in the coalition agreement, "If you are not allowed to stay, you must leave quickly."? That's turned into a joke. Everyone can stay on that VVD. 'Cause they went through the pump. They went through the pump again. The only thing that can help now is a voter's reckoning. And that's what we're gonna do on March 20th, deal with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	We know the story of Mr Wilders, which I think is painful to hear sometimes, even for all those people sitting in the public gallery who are very happy that there may be an opening. But the question is, there are a number of things in this package too. Like a change of discretion, on which I believe Mr Fritsma has tabled another motion, the abolition of the regime, which I believe the PVV has repeatedly asked for, which is also included in it. So what exactly is so terrible that there can now be a number of children and that the measures for which the PVV was also implemented? What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	Madam President. That is Mrs Van Toorenburg and perhaps I can quote her twice to show what a crooked back or at least a weak back she has. Mrs Van Toorenburg, who, at a general meeting on 12 September, said: 'An extension of the children's pardon is not something that we as CDA stand for'. Mr President, 'is not something we as CDA stand for'. A larger chameleon behavior is almost inconceivable. And one more for Mrs Van Toorenburg, in the Algemeen Dagblad of 25 January this year: I want to think about everything, but we are not going to interfere with the current agreements. Mr. Chairman. I can go on for an hour and a half. That is Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA, the most unreliable party in the Netherlands, who is still trying to lecture me. Fuck you, Mrs Van Toorenburg, look at it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	Respect is not something Mr Wilders has in his mind either, but that is not the question I have. I asked him a question. I can understand why it would be easier to talk a little bit about him. That is allowed, because in the end, of course, we have achieved together that we will not continue with this pardon, which ultimately did not yield anything for the children, but that you will ensure that that perverse incentive is no longer there. But I had asked the PVV two questions and I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	Well, let me give you the answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	I would also like to say a part of the respect. Can Mr Wilders also explain why he is so unhappy at stopping the arrangement he himself was against? Can the PVV also explain why they are so terribly unhappy with the implementation of Mr Fritsma's motion? Two important points. And so the investment in the IND to ensure that decisions are made sooner and faster. I think those are things the PVV wants. But that does not fit in with the rhetorical image of Mr Wilders. So he gets one more time, the stage's back on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	It is crystal clear: the CDA signs for an extension of the pardon. Then you can say all around it things that may be beautiful, but the point is that you are literally drawing for broadening the pardon. This means that the CDA rewards illegality, as the CDA rewards the accumulation of these procedures and the submission of applications every time. As a CDA, you're creating a larger pardon scheme. You're creating these problems. Because of your behavior now, thanks to Mrs Van Toorenburg and thanks to the CDA, half Africa thinks that in the Netherlands there are always weak people like the CDA who say: you can't stay here, but in the end we will come up with a general pardon. You are destroying the Netherlands and making sure that the voters in the Netherlands no longer believe you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	I hear the members of the PVV Group roaring on the benches. We had a little rhetorical again. It's okay. And then there can also be robbed for it. But in the end, of course, that doesn't pay off at all. In the end, action must be taken. It is fascinating that there are a number of measures for which even the PVV has tabled motions, but perhaps that does not fit in with Mr Wilders' style.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	We are talking about a measure that the CDA itself did not want to do a few months ago, which they themselves said we are not going to do. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that we do not want to interfere with that. Who made a turn here? The CDA has made a turn here. Through the President, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg: you will also be dealt with by the electorate, because you appear to be unreliable. This wasn't in your election program, but you did it anyway. You didn't have a straight back. And half of Africa is now on the Toorenburg route to the Netherlands. Get your chest wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr President, thank you. Let me start by saying: what great news for those hundreds of children who live day in, day out in uncertainty whether or not they should leave. They no longer have to live in that fear that they will have to leave the Netherlands, often the only country they know. It is a great relief for these children, but also for their surroundings and for their friends in school, for children like Nemr, for the children in the Tamrazyan family and for many others, children who simply belong to the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. It was a brief letter, but DENK trusts that the assessment of the procedure will be careful for all 700 children, and that will indeed be the outcome that 90% may remain. On this point, I would like confirmation from the Secretary of State. I would also like to answer the question of how he is going to do this. But there's also a downside. For this good news a high price has been paid, blood money has been paid. Congratulations to the VVD and in a sense also to the PVV, because Wilders pretends to be very angry and dissatisfied, but deep down in his heart he is extremely pleased with some measures. Mr President, I would like to take you and the Chamber to the year 2041. It must be somewhere in that year that Grandpa Dijkhoff on a Sunday afternoon in his villa in Prinsenbeek, just outside Breda, has all the grandchildren visiting. And one of those grandchildren is asking about the familiar story. Everyone in the family knows Grandpa Klaas is gonna gloat when he tells that story. "Tell me, Grandpa Klaas. How did you manage to abolish that child's pardon?', called one of those lidse Dijkhoffjes. "Well, actually, it was pretty easy. Grandpa had given an interview in that hate-sowing newspaper, De Telegraaf, about the climate, and on purpose went a little too far. I threatened to drop the cabinet, and then my cabinet friends got mad. Then the three friends tried to sew me in ear by keeping all foreign children in asylum in the Netherlands. It was three against one." "Ah, how mean!', said those lidse Dijkhoffjes. "But fucking a Dijkhoff, it can't just happen. For what did Grandpa Klaas teach you?" And all the children shouted in choir: "Wish money is bad, cash is real." "Very well, little children," said Grandpa Klaas, while he was satisfied with his belly. Then Grandpa Klaas said: "Okay, all foreign children may stay in the asylum, but that is the last time. So we never do this again." And that is how we abolished it. "Is that all?" The children cried out. "No, no, you've known Grandpa Klaas longer than today. I've done a lot more for the Netherlands." The grandchildren were hanging on his lips. "You know that if there is war, there are people who have nothing left, who have been wounded with weapons from America and whose houses have been shot. Their kids can't go to school, they have nothing to eat and they're very sick. We agreed that 250 of those kids and their dads and moms would come to Holland. But Grandpa Klaas personally made sure that those children can stay there with their parents, that we don't have to help." But then the youngest Dijkhoffje asked: "But Grandpa, those babies and their daddies and moms might die." All grandchildren, with Grandpa Klaas in the lead, shouted in choir: "Yes, so..." Mr. Chairman. The result is a wet dream for the VVD, because the children's pardon disappears. The discretionary power is tucked away under an official, not to mention director of the IND itself, and the Netherlands is going to absorb much less of the most vulnerable refugees, in consultation with the United Nations. As far as DENK is concerned, that deal is no good. It's a deal that stinks. DENK will never agree to the disappearance of the children's pardon. Children who are rooted here and who have been in uncertainty for many years at the hands of the Dutch State, deserve to be able to stay here and rely on solidarity, mercy and charity. That does not weigh 13 million for the IND to speed up the procedures, so that the VVD can send those children out sooner. How are these 13 million going to prevent Lili's and Howicks from re-emerging? I would like a clear answer from the Secretary of State on this point. How does the Secretary of State view his own position? He didn't have the political courage to take action. He very cowardly called into life a committee that would think for eight months about something that was organized in a week and a half. That's cowardly. Isn't that actually a football committee right now? How's that going? The deal's off the table. DENK will never sign for abolishing the children's pardon. DENK will never sign for taking in fewer refugees. DENK does not play political poker over the back of children and the most vulnerable people on this earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. I call Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. At GroenLinks we are also very happy for all these children, more than 600 we hear now, who are often born here or come here at a very young age, who are sitting here on football, who go to school here and who have lived in uncertainty for so long. It's really good that these kids should be able to clear up very quickly. In fact, the Secretary of State may be able to say a little more about that. How many kids are we talking about, exactly? The letter's pretty vague about that. He may also be able to indicate how fast that is going, because children who have been in uncertainty for so long are now entitled to rapid clarity. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to tell us how and when he is going to provide that clarity. I am also happy for all those people who have cared about the fate of these children in recent years: the people in the Bethel chapel, the vicars, the 600, 700 preachers who were constantly ready to preach there, all those activists and TV presenters who have collected signatures, and so on. So it pays, it apparently helps to resist, if you see injustice in society. I am glad that we have a democracy in which such noises from society penetrate Parliament. That's what I'd like to say. I also have questions about the agreement reached by the four coalition parties. My first questions are about what exactly was conceived about discretion. Because you can say that you're taking that authority away from the Secretary of State and that you're siphoning it to the IND, but in the end there's only one person responsible for the IND and that's the Secretary of State. Of course, you cannot delegate decisions that are so crucial in an asylum seeker's life to an official. It can't be. In the end, you have to answer for that here in the Chamber. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how he intends to do that when the coalition parties say that it should be delegated to the IND. What I also have questions about is the agreement that has apparently been made to make that use of discretion only at the very beginning of the asylum procedure. What does that mean if, for example, a child gets into trouble later, if it does not succeed in effectively implementing the paper solution we have now devised for rapid procedures in practice, if a child is rooted here or if the judge may have already made a ruling, but someone wants to appeal it, for example the IND itself, who very often appeals against court rulings? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that this will not happen anymore, that the IND will no longer appeal to extend procedures that cause children to root again? I would like to have a little more clarity about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	The problem with the current discretionary regime was that you could only rely on it if all the other procedures had been and could take years. That meant that the children had to wait a long time until they could appeal to it. If Mr Van Ojik has read the letter, he has seen that this distress test, as it is now called, will apply throughout the procedure up to and including the appeal. So not only at the start of that procedure, but up to and including the appeal, children, families, can claim that distress test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	I read the letter, you know. I can reassure Mr Voordewind on that point. It was a nice short letter, so I read it. I would like to reassure him on that point. My question to the Secretary of State, who I would be able to put to you later, if you are talking about whether there is any provision for children who are probably not wanted by anyone to be here for a very long time, for example because they have had to wait a long time for their procedure to begin at all, as is the case at the moment, and who are therefore rooted here in the future to be able to claim something like the discretion of the IND. Or do you say, no, we're going to do that entirely. That's how I understood the chord. I see Mr Azmani, you don't see that, Mr Voordewind, nodding in agreement. I can see how you're reacting now, but I'm not gonna say that. A discretionary power is used in an emergency. If I understand the agreement correctly, it says that this emergency is being brought all the way forward, that it can only be called upon at the beginning, that the judge will then have the final say and that it will then be ready. I wouldn't think that was an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	The letter really states that this discretionary power is being transformed or replaced by a harrowing test. Even an external or an independent committee can help with that. That can be done from the outset, but it can apply up to and including the appeal. We know that some procedures can go beyond five years. During the procedure, during the first procedure, I will specifically say that children and families can appeal to that distress test. If this is not met or if there are problems with it, they can still go to court and then a judicial test can look into whether the heaviness test has been sufficiently taken into account. That's what it's meant to be. So why don't you clear those kids up before it takes three or four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	Everyone is for clarity as soon as possible, so am I, but I do have a concern. I hear from Mr Voordewind that nothing has really changed. It is now invested with the IND, I hear him say, but nothing has really changed, because you can permanently rely on that discretionary power. If so, of course I am completely reassured. But it's one of both. Or something's changed. Then I ask the Secretary of State what exactly has changed and what exactly that means for children who are rooted here, for whatever reason, and still want to invoke that discretion. Or nothing's changed. That's fine with me; then it's only invested with the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u19	I understand Mr Van Ojik wants to keep it small.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u20	Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u21	In my view, we agree that it is necessary to clarify as soon as possible when there is a distress. Now it is only at the end of all the processes that have been carried out; I say it again. Mr Van Ojik knows that, because he also sometimes presents things. What we said to each other and what we liked each other for is this. Let us allow this harrowing test to run in parallel with the asylum application, so that children and families can be made more clear; in particular children, we also say that children's interests must be taken into account in that process. That could be from the beginning. Maybe those circumstances will be clear soon. It could also be at the end of the asylum procedure. So it can be both. But I think Mr. Van Ojik and I agree that we should give that clarity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u22	Sure. I do not know if we have a difference of opinion. Of course, I'm in favour of clarity as soon as possible. I would like to draw attention to the cases without that clarity. We may have arranged it all back on paper, as it has, of course, been many times. But in practice, day-to-day asylum practice, there are situations that may not have been wanted by anyone but which still justify recourse to such discretion. If that's possible, I'm completely reassured. I naturally agree with Mr Voordewind that the sooner it can be clarified, the better it is. I'd like to wait and see what the Secretary of State will say about this. If he can reassure me, like Mr Voordewind, you will no longer hear me, Mr President. Perhaps I will also ask Mr Azmani how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u23	Proceed, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr. Chairman. My big objection is, after all, against what has been agreed on resettlement, because that is really miserable cow trade, it seems. We've always heard the VVD about care in the region. The countries of the world that already receive 90%, 95% of the refugees, must receive 100% of the refugees. We had an agreement that we would receive 750 of those millions of refugees in the Netherlands. Now an agreement has been reached between four parties and, apparently, someone has said: in order to restore balance, we want to reduce 750 to 500. Who, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, is proud today because he has negotiated it, because he has negotiated that of the most vulnerable people from the most vulnerable countries, who already receive most refugees, we are reducing our share by one third from 750 to 500? I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to explain to me who wants it, who is pleased that it is now in place and how it relates to everything the Cabinet has told us from the very first day of its entry, namely that refugees in the region must be taken care of and that we will then make our fair share of the re-establishment of the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. Once again, the coalition agreement is broken open, this time because of the children's pardon. Following the deletion of the dividend tax and salary suspension plans, this is the third time that agreements are changed. The coalition agreement seems to be a kind of menu, and then we have to see how the climate agreements are going. But let's look at the new appointments. The extension of the children's pardon for existing cases is fantastic news for hundreds of children who have been in uncertainty for years. Respect for the people in the Bethel church. Respect for Tim Hofman, all his people and his petition. Hopefully now there will really be a stay for Nemr and Hayarpi and all the other children. Is it true that this is 90% of the cases, so about 630 children? What's that number based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u27	I just heard the SP colleague say in a subtlety that people, children and their parents were in uncertainty for a long time, but I don't really understand that. What uncertainty were they in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u28	They were in uncertainty for years whether or not they would have a stay, because of the lack of capacity at the IND, because of the fact that there was no certainty whether they could stay here or not. You have seen it on television every day: children such as Nemr and Hayarpi who did not get any clarity about their stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u29	No, there was complete clarity about their stay. There was zero uncertainty. They've done several appeal procedures. First it was the IND who said: we're not gonna do that, you don't meet the criteria. Then they often went to court and went to court again. Every time it's been decided that they shouldn't stay. A judge confirmed that twice. So yes, it was crystal clear. In fact, they've gone into illegality. They weren't supposed to be here. They knew they weren't supposed to be here. They have often not contributed to their expulsion, that criterion which is now being deleted. They didn't cooperate. So the only thing that's clear is that they screwed things up. What exactly was it that wasn't clear? You also know you're wrong if you break a law, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u30	It is not true what Mr Wilders is saying. In the case of Mrs Hayarpi's family, for example, who was in the Bethel church, she was told three times that she was entitled to stay. It was the Secretary of State who appealed against it. It was the Secretary of State who felt it necessary to fight a clear decision by the judge that she had the right to reside. And so, for years, procedures could be stacked. You really need to look at this from both sides. There are people who stack procedures themselves. The SP also wants to do something about this, about unnecessarily stretching procedures. But you must also highlight the other side, Mr Wilders: it is also the state that is appealing crystal clear decisions by the judge. It is good that steps are now being taken to speed up these years of procedures on both sides. I'll have a few questions about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u31	I don't have to do anything, but let me come with you and look at the cases where the state hasn't appealed. There's hundreds of them. Not the state has appealed, but the people have appealed. And the people have lost that profession. The IND said no; the people themselves were told no by the judge, they did not cooperate in their expulsion and entered into illegality. Isn't that crystal clear? Those people aren't in uncertainty, are they? They knew they had to go. You can't say, as SP, "Well, if a judge said that, stay. Don't stick to the rules, and don't stick to that court ruling. Don't cooperate with your eviction, go into illegality." Is that what the SP stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u32	This is another one-sided lighting of the process by Mr Wilders. There are people who are stacking procedures, and they need to be dealt with. I have some questions about this later. But what Mr Wilders does not mention here are the children who are at stake. What the CDA has just realized is that children's rights are at stake here as well. So there are two things here: stacking procedures on the one hand, and on the other hand children that you can't blame, but which are now rooted. There are all kinds of professors and experts who say: you should not evict those children after five years, because that harms them. That is an important cause of the turn of the CDA. I agree with Mr Wilders when he says: you need to speed up those procedures; you need to clarify much more quickly whether a family is allowed to stay or should leave. But if our system doesn't manage to make that decision within five years, then at some point you should also look at the position of the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u33	That was a long story, but again, it was already clear to these people that they shouldn't be here. For the cases where not the government, but the people themselves appealed, that was crystal clear. What you are doing, because you are standing here cheering and just not handing out a cake by this extension of the children's pardon, is making sure that more people with children are coming this way right away from Africa. That is going to happen, because that is what is happening in the Netherlands. We have a general's pardon. There are parties who say: this is really the last time; we're going to give everyone a permit now and then we won't do it anymore. Four years later there are hundreds or thousands of people again and then comes the next politician from the VVD or the SP who says: now we have to pardon another general. That's how we keep going. So these kids come with their parents by weaklings when you say: good that you come; you can stay. Stop being so lame. If you're here illegally, you have to leave. Those are the rules, for ordinary Dutch people and also for illegals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u34	That's total bullshit. The SP has always said: you must find a solution for the current, poignant cases. That's a couple hundred kids; that's what we're talking about right now. Hopefully a solution will be found for this and I am pleased about that. In addition, you need to ensure fast procedures, so that you avoid a new children's pardon in the future. That is what we, as SP, are advocating. Mr. Chairman. The extra money for the IND is also good news, because of the huge shortage of staff. Hopefully, this will speed up procedures considerably. Is it true that this is EUR 13 million? Mr. Chairman. These two cases, extending the children's pardon and extra money for the IND, mean that two SP-motions last November are carried out retroactively. Compliments for that. Then there are the appointments that raise questions. I refer to the abolition of discretionary powers. Decisions are now up to the IND and the judge, and there will be an independent committee that can give advice. How am I supposed to see this? Is the IND going to judge his own decisions? Don't you get a butcher to approve his own flesh? And who's responsible for the IND? That's you, isn't it, the Secretary of State? To what extent does your discretionary power really disappear? How serious is the committee's opinion? What are the guidelines? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve a proper balance in migration policy, the cabinet writes, the number of refugees invited by the Netherlands is reduced from 750 to 500 people. This is clearly a concession to the VVD. It must be able to explain the new agreements to the PVV and Forum for Democracy. But it's embarrassing. What a wretched exchange! Nor will there be a new children's pardon, we read all over the media. That in itself is a good aim, because a child's pardon should not be necessary at all. That is what we have always said. Ensure faster procedures so that a new child's pardon is avoided. But I don't read that back in your letter that way. Then the question is: what if there are again poignant cases? I also remember a debate between Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Azmani during the budget debate, in which Mr Azmani said: let us abolish discretionary powers. Mrs Van Toorenburg was extremely critical of this. My question is therefore: you can abolish discretionary powers, but you cannot abolish poignant cases. I'd like an explanation. Mr President, one more question: are these all agreements? Or are there any appointments you forgot to write down? Let us know, because it would be a bit harsh if we had to find out later. By 15 June at the latest, the investigation by the Van Zwol Committee will be brought out. But today we are talking about new policies. So what is the point of this committee? We have always argued in favour of extending the child's pardon and speeding up procedures. It is good that you are taking steps in this direction. It is also a good thing that you look at how the accumulation of asylum procedures is being countered, because the stretching of procedures is undesirable. A fair asylum policy provides a place for people in need, but at the same time ensures that people who are not entitled to asylum actually leave. We're going to follow your plans with interest. Finally. You are doing well when it comes to breaking the coalition agreement. I have a few more suggestions: abolishing the high VAT rate, abolishing the own risk, increasing the tax on profits, opening up social services, reintroducing the basic exchange and reducing the energy bill. For tips and suggestions I can always be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for having been able to make time for this debate so quickly. It's been an exciting week, I'm telling you that honestly. But my week wasn't nearly as exciting as the week and the many weeks of so many children who were worried about whether they would ever have to go back to a country where they might never have been. Something had to happen, because there were relevant developments. We were faced with case law of the European Court of Justice in the Gnandi case. There was a discussion about whether you can expect someone to cooperate in the return process at the beginning of the procedure. We read a damage note from scientists who concluded that the expulsion of long-term children was irresponsible in scientific terms. Things weren't supposed to drag on, but what turned out to be? The IND suffers from shortages and waiting times are huge, sometimes longer than a year. In the meantime, we're seeing some troublemakers who can hardly be dealt with. Then the feeling arises: apparently we can lock up children, but not troublemakers. If various actors from the practice come out of their shooter's pits to do hand-outs about how it might be better, who are we to ignore that, especially if you have the reality check? 94% of the rejected minor asylum seekers remained in the Netherlands. Those are the facts. Often, as politicians, we are accused that everything we say has been poured into concrete, that there is no room for moving insight or for changed circumstances, or that there is no room for valid arguments from others. This week, four parties have shown that they can. I would also like to thank my colleagues from D66, the Christian Union and the VVD for their constructive attitude towards achieving a more balanced policy on children. 'Cause that's ahead of us. There will soon be an end to the frightening uncertainty in which so many rooted children were found. At the same time, the perverse incentive to sue, to train, to stack more procedures is being removed. That's why this arrangement is ending now. You may remember that we voted against this regulation at the time. And not for nothing, for we feared that it would be an incentive to stall. And so it's a good thing that that ends now. I say to all those who oppose it: look at the facts; it didn't work for anyone anymore. Mr. Chairman. The Van Zwol Committee continues with the important work to see how the current procedure can be improved and how it can be speeded up. But it's not just in procedures; the IND also needs reinforcement. There is already a recruitment process. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Secretary of State to indicate whether progress is being made. Mr. Chairman. The discretionary power is transformed into what I call "a harrowing test." That we are enthusiastic about this, I think we need some explanation, because when the VVD chattered this wish on the table some time ago, so to speak, we were in complete opposition. An almost chamber-wide motion stated that such a valve is necessary and really cannot be missed. We also said that we consider it important that distressing circumstances are taken into account earlier in the procedure. And that is what is now ahead: a depoliticized test, with extra attention to the interests and circumstances of children, on which the judge can also rule. It is an improvement, of which the VVD was able to convince us. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. We have a balanced package in front of us, which provides a solution for children, but also offers solutions for the future. I'm proud of that, and I'm grateful for that. D66 and the CDA threw the bat a week and a half ago, including the request to adjust the working criterion, but we soon found out that we were not there with it. Because what to do in the meantime? If something has to be done, it must be rigorous. And you can see: not everything is poured into concrete. If we can find each other and respect each other, and if we just give each other room, we'll come a long way. It's finally giving and taking in this business. And that's something to cherish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u37	Much of what Mrs Van Toorenburg has just said appeals to me. She said, for example, that politicians should not be embarrassed by the fact that they are attracted to noises from society. Let me just say it in my own words. But to call this a balanced agreement. That's gonna raise a few questions. Take the fact that we are no longer taking over 750, but 500 vulnerable people from the host countries. That's a third less. Did that idea come from the CDA, or did it come from someone else? How does the CDA feel about that? I can imagine you saying you have to give and agree to such an agreement, but what does Mrs Van Toorenburg, who is like that for shelter in the region, think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u38	We must therefore face up to a number of facts. First of all, we didn't record 750. You always have the discussion about how to choose them. I've also spoken to former rulers and they thought it was a bit of a weird thing that you go to a poignant refugee camp and that you actually say: you, and you, and you, and you get to come and we leave the rest behind. It's a question of whether it's so awfully humane that you're gonna let those few people come here. Are we not much more responsible for improving care there? At the same time, it is not something I say: it is the culmination of this agreement. I'm telling you the truth. But I do think it is a real question to look at the balance if you take on a lot more people now, when they were already mentioned in the procedure that they would not be staying here. So if you do, I don't think it's weird to find the balance in that: how many people does the Netherlands ultimately want to include in order to have support here and ensure that people are able to integrate properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u39	I'm a little surprised at that answer. If it's not humane to do it that way, Mrs Van Toorenburg implies a little bit of... and picking people out, then 500 is no more humane than 750. The problem of choice will only become greater. So you'd argue for taking over more vulnerable people. That's what makes it more humane. The more people you can help... The main line of this cabinet's migration policy is: reception should take place as much as possible in the region and then we will help to relocate vulnerable people. We have not heard that one, not ten, but a hundred times from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u40	We'll stay with the children's pardon, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u41	Yes, Madam President, but this is part of the agreement on the children's pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u42	I don't want us to have a migration debate. Of course it has to do with it, but I'm trying a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u43	I ask how balanced this agreement is when this main line is suddenly minimized and goes back to what we had years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u44	Nevertheless, Mr Van Ojik is confusing a number of things. This is about the UNHCR's 750 and not about the agreements we make within Europe or on the GEAS. This is about other matters, namely the few that we are particularly interested in. Regardless of whether there are a few hundred more or less, I insist that it is special. It's kind of a weird system that you say as an organization, even though you know there's a lot of poignantness, "we're gonna unpack a few and we're gonna walk past the next cabin, but that's not eligible." I've always had my hesitations in that. It's never the big solution, so I don't think it's terrible that we're narrowing it down a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u45	One sentence: if it's a weird system, then you don't make the system any less weird by going from 750 to 500. Mrs Van Toorenburg will agree with me. This actually makes a system that she finds weird even crazier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u46	I don't think it's the answer to pick out a few hundred people somewhere and say, "We'll save you and let the rest of you suffer. I just don't think this is the answer. That's why I can live with the fact that we're adjusting to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u47	To start with that last one. If you agree in UNHCR context that you can do something about the worst cases, whatever you do with other countries, it is, of course, extremely strange that you say that you are bringing 500 people, while there are 750 people who are having a hard time, who are sick. In fact, Mrs Van Toorenburg says: I find that strange, so I prefer to leave them all there in these difficult circumstances. And then someone else has to fix it or something. It's just humanity, isn't it? I do not understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's reasoning. Can you explain it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u48	What Mr Azarkan says is half the story. It's not like "let's leave them there" and "look who cares." That is exactly why I believe that we must ensure that we improve the conditions of all these people. We should be proud that we are actually the only country in the world that has a constitution that gives us any interest in the international legal order. That's what you should do. But it's not the solution in the world to say: we're pulling a few out and we're supposed to be humane; look at us knocking ourselves on the chest that we're bringing a few people to the Netherlands. I think we have a much greater responsibility. That's why I can take this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u49	That's just nice talk. It is a very simple fact. There are 750 people in trouble and you can help all 750. Or you help 500 and leave 250 behind. I find it quite a lot that Mrs Van Toorenburg here halfway through her story all kinds of feathers in her ass and in those of other...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u50	No, you're not gonna say that, are you? Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u51	That's a way of speaking, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u52	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u53	What's that expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u54	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u55	Can you give me a hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u56	You can use different terms...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u57	Well, no matter how many feathers it takes, you're never gonna be a chicken yourself. Anyway, she gave herself and some colleagues compliments, and this is just talking them away. I think that's kind of weird, but I'm going back to my other question. I have had a number of debates, including in general discussions. As regards the arguments raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg on case law, that statement was already known last year. As far as the arguments raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg on the harrowingness are concerned, this harrowingness was already known. I would therefore like to know from Mrs Van Toorenburg what has changed compared to a few months ago, as Mr Wilders also called for, and Mrs Van Toorenburg says: we are going to change it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u58	To start with the latter: I think that is easy to read back in my contribution. I mentioned all five of them. But what I find fascinating and what perhaps not everyone in the public gallery knows is that Mr Azarkan, when he gets a little irritated because someone else might have a point, always starts talking a little aggressively. That's what I notice today. I regret that we then hear the terminology of "speak" and "butt." We shouldn't do that at all. I would like to state here today what arguments have been important for us to take this step forward. I also point out that the things that we change in it are for us to carry when I look at the overall picture. So we do not think that we are doing the most great thing if we solve a few harrowing situations while letting so much other misery suffer. I think we have a shared responsibility there to provide the solutions in the broadest sense. They're not in those few hundred people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u59	I'd like to comment on the content and no rude remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u60	Definitely on the content, Mr. Chairman. I asked a simple question. Mrs Van Toorenburg walks away from the content by saying that she is being aggressively treated. I do not know who is doing this here; I do not think that is the case. I am concerned that the five arguments put forward by Mrs Van Toorenburg were the same three months ago. I'm just really curious what that spin is based on, that toll or whatever, because we can see that the CDA has changed their attitude here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u61	Very briefly. I said: case law of the European Court. In the meantime, we see that there are consequences for two judges. We have been confronted with this recently. I also know that the Secretary of State has appealed against this. It is therefore a matter of discussion in the case law at the moment. That's one. Then we have the damages note. There are people in the public gallery who have been very committed to this. That's a pretty recent piece. It was important for us to take that with us. Then I indicated that we see that the IND suffers from major deficits, which means that it all takes a lot longer and families wait even a year. I have indicated that we see that as a matter of fact, the troublemakers are hardly being dealt with. That was going to avenge itself, because you eventually see that very vulnerable children are getting stuck and the troublemakers aren't. Then we had those involved at the table who told us what the points we might be able to do about were. D66 and the CDA went to the table with that. We have invited people from the field to discuss this further. And then just around Christmas came the reality check that 94% of the people who eventually weren't allowed to stay didn't leave. That total package, these six reasons, has been the time for us to say: let's see how we can make it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u62	We are having this debate thanks to a turn of the CDA. That is a good twist, because there is an extension of the children's pardon for the existing cases. That's what the SP has always advocated. There are also less good things in the deal, so to speak. I find the reduction in the number of people who can be re-established agitated; that is a kind of exchange of refugees. There are also issues that raised questions, such as the abolition of discretionary powers, on which Mrs Van Toorenburg was still very critical in November. My question is this. You may be able to abolish a new child's pardon, but can you also eliminate distressing cases? How do you deal with that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u63	I really appreciate the fact that this question comes from the SP again, because this is, of course, a very important point that many people have questions about. I'm getting those questions, too. Now there are a number of things that are really legal grounds for getting a stay and there are always those unclear, poignant things that do not immediately give rise to a ground but which may be something that gives someone a permit after all. That is very often at the end, and it happens repeatedly. In the meantime, there is even a window that is specially designed for this purpose. So what was once meant as "there may be one more crepe situation, look at it again," has actually almost turned into a new procedure. We also see that this is a reason for people to hold back certain things and first to present the factual, legal things to judges and finally to come up with something poignant. I'll even get it back from lawyers. You shouldn't want that. That leads to a very long procedure. What you want is that all aspects are immediately considered and testable. Because at the moment, of course, this is not testable. I refer to the incorruptible situation surrounding two other children who were finally allowed to stay and on which even the Secretary of State can not even tell on good grounds why he did so. It's just on his shoulders. For me, too, I have indicated that this has been a process I had to go through. When there was criticism of discretionary power, I was in the first instance really completely stressed. I thought we're not going through this. But there's something better. There is something that can be tested in the beginning. The SP was also under the relevant motion: bring out that distress. But there are all these other things that rightly come up with a question: what if, for example, your child suddenly becomes very sick, what if the situation in the country of origin suddenly changed? Those are aspects which can be the basis for a new request. We're not taking that away. We also do not take away the fact that there can be reasons why someone can't go back at all, the "out of blame." We didn't abolish it. So it's a total package. Here's my explanation. I think it's good that the Secretary of State will explain how he sees it. It is a very important point, but harrowingness should not be the point of contact that a politician ultimately says 'yes' or 'no'. That must be something that is much more balanced and testable in a comprehensive package. That has been an initiative of the VVD, and we have become convinced of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u64	I await these proposals with interest. I also assume that we can have a proper debate on this in the House of Representatives. When I read the letter, one more question came to mind. It says: the discretion of the State Secretary is abolished; the assessment goes to the management of the IND. But who, I ask Mrs Van Toorenburg, is ultimately responsible for the IND? That's the Secretary of State, isn't it? Does that discretionary power really disappear from the Secretary of State? What if another poignant case comes out and the whole country and the House of Representatives are turned upside down: this child, or this family, should not be sent away? Does Mrs Van Toorenburg, does the House of Representatives no longer have a role in this? Are you putting yourself out of business or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u65	I'm not putting myself out of business, because I think there are others who are better at judging. I was in this room every time with discomfort because I had to speak out about individual cases. I don't want that at all. I don't know the details. I can't know them either, and for privacy reasons, I often can't know them. The Secretary of State is asked every time if he wants to motivate why he's doing something. He can't. A former ruler, Mrs Verdonk, did so once and was obtained from it. So it is quite a risky one in that respect. We all know that the head IND, or the IND, eventually gives the advice. What is important now is that it becomes testable and that we ourselves will see how the conditions and interests of children can be better guaranteed. This may be the subject of an opinion. So I think it's a better way to give that harrowing a place in the end, just not to a politician who can't then explain to you why he did it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u66	I look forward to that with interest, but my question remains: who is ultimately responsible for the IND? As far as I know, that's the Secretary of State. If you are now saying that we're going to put that down at the IND... I think the Secretary of State is ultimately responsible for the IND... then my question is: are you really taking away his responsibility or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u67	No, we never remove responsibility, because the Secretary of State is ultimately responsible for the IND. The only thing we're building here is that it's going to be an integral test that the judge can finally look at. We don't have one right now. So who controls the Secretary of State? That's us, without knowing what he's done. Soon it'll be the judge with a substantive review.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u68	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Van Toorenburg on her personal commitment to achieving certainty at least, as it now looks like, for a small 700 children. That's worth a compliment. At the same time, I have some concerns about the two and three parts of this agreement in particular. It's about discretion. I'm still confused, because I'm reading the Secretary of State's letter. It says: you may apply for discretion until the appeal. That makes sense in itself. But Mrs Van Toorenburg is adding: but if you submit a new case again, it will run again. Did I hear her that well? You will not only have an appeal at first instance, but you can also, for a new ground, a medical ground or any other ground, restart proceedings at first instance up to and including appeal, and also apply for that discretionary power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u69	We do not take away the number of possibilities to address your personal situation. Indeed, that question came very often: what if someone suddenly gets terribly ill? Then you just have a medical ground on which you can ask if you can stay. So we're not taking that away. If, for example, the situation in the country of origin changes completely, it must also be called into question again. So we're not taking all that away. Only that elusive harrowingness, which makes it possible that you may not really have an appeal on a particular ground which would allow you to stay while there is a lot of things that are elusive, which we bring forward, so that it can be viewed earlier, reviewed earlier, and raised earlier and finally judged by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u70	I would like to make a very specific point: until when can you invoke that right, that harrowingness? 'Cause I don't think that harrowingness ever disappears. So my question is very simple: does this only apply at first instance and at first instance, or can it be followed by a second instance and a second appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u71	At first instance up to an appeal, this harrowingness, which does not have a place before, can be addressed. It will therefore also have to be discussed. If there will be special changed circumstances later, it will remain as it is already. So if there's something special going on then, it's still possible. For example, if someone gets very sick or changes the situation in the country, you can still appeal to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u72	That means that this is not just at first instance. Therefore, that discretionary power remains available as long as there is a procedure in any form. That's different from the way I read it in the letter. Then I am very curious whether this is also seen by the VVD, which says: no, we will delete it. I see now that it has a wider application. Well, that cheers me up, so I'm gonna ask around later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mrs. Kuik not only needs to ask questions, but she also needs to listen very carefully. I chose my own words. I have indicated that it is precisely this harrowingness, that elusive thing when something is going on that does not provide concrete ground, that should be addressed at the beginning. That should not be kept in the back pocket before the end, such as: help, but fortunately we have another window called "State Secretary"; it's all a bit elusive, but look at all this horrible. That must be done much earlier in the process. But if something terrible happens, someone gets very sick, there is a special circumstance or another ground, for example, now and in the future it can be raised again. I think the Secretary of State will be able to explain that very well. I hope Mrs. Kuiks will be reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u74	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u75	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It is right that Mrs Van Toorenburg should call me to order. I can only conclude that the discretionary power is not abolished, contrary to what the VVD concludes and what the letter suggests. And that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u76	Then I will say once again that I choose my own words, that the discretionary power will be transformed into a test for distress in the first procedure. There can always be circumstances on which you can appeal. That's true now. That is the case in the future and will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u77	But, of course, Mrs Kuik is right that the ground for appealing for compelling humanitarian reasons does not disappear in the third procedure either. This means that there must therefore be a ruling which de facto amounts to the application of discretionary powers. Is that a correct conclusion, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u78	That compelling reason of a humanitarian nature has always been there. That's what the experience teaches. Only the crazy thing is that it is very often put at the very end, because all other objective reasons are first presented in the proceedings and before the courts. Later you have that magic window called Secretary of State, which no one has to answer for, and we can't look at what's really going on. That system can do better. It worked, but it could be better. And how can it be better? It could be better if it's in the beginning and can be checked by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u79	I therefore note that this land is not being tampered with. So he's staying. De facto, therefore, the discretion remains. So there is not so much change, with this difference that it is now being brought forward and that, if a procedure drags on indefinitely, partly because of the action of the government, an extra ground disappears. Now there can still be a poignant situation where it is said that it is not reasonable to send someone back now, because it has been stretched from the government's side for so long. Then you could have a basis for applying the discretionary power. So that disappears, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u80	Nor do I regard our agreement as abolishing it. I say that this is being transformed into a harrowing test in the beginning. I'm not saying that for nothing, because I think it's important that you keep that valve. Next, I'm repeating myself; I think people are getting all grumpy about it that a number of circumstances can be taken into account. I think it's a good thing that the Secretary of State will give his explanation on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u81	Then the conclusion can't be different than that there isn't so much de facto changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u82	I understand very well what is being said from the SGP side. It fits our view that discretionary power is a necessary valve. But once again, we're setting it up differently. She's getting another place. It becomes testable and weighed. Then there is not some kind of shadowiness, in which the Secretary of State does his utmost but can never justify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Anyone entitled to a residence permit may stay. Those who can't stay must leave quickly. It makes so much sense, but reality is often different. Year after year we see sad things come along, with children sitting here at school, making friends here and being included in the community of their village or city. But despite that rooting they cannot stay in the Netherlands. Their parents and they have no right to stay and so they have to go back to a country that they often don't know, where they never have been, or a long time ago, without having a real memory of it. These poignant cases suddenly give the abstract foreign policy a face, bring it very close. The children's pardon rarely offered a way out. Only a very few applications were accepted. That's why D66 thinks it's great news that the group of children who were previously rejected gets a re-evaluation. For a very large part of those children and their families, this will mean that they are still allowed to stay. Furthermore, we need to find a structural solution to prevent this kind of distressing situation in the future as much as possible. That is complex, because its causes are complex: long procedures, people who stack procedures, delays and delays in the IND and very often probably also a combination of those factors. A broad approach is therefore needed. That is why, as a coalition, we choose a broad solution along a number of lines. First of all, the Van Zwol Committee should advise us on how to shorten these procedures. What are the possibilities of making procedures faster and more careful within international rules? I have a question for the Secretary of State. Can he indicate whether the planning of 15 June for the Van Zwol Committee to advise still stands with this package of measures and how does he see the follow-up process when we get that advice? Mr. Chairman. We also invest in our IND. On paper we have a fast procedure in the Netherlands; the standard asylum procedure is based on eight days but reality is different. Due to delays with the IND, it takes a long time for procedures to actually start. That often puts people in care for months. As their lives stand still, nothing actually happens. Once the procedure begins, the eight days are often missed. A major bottleneck is the financing of the IND. When the influx drops, the IND has to turn people in, but if that influx increases again, you're immediately at a disadvantage. Unfortunately, we are seeing this happening at the moment. Not exactly convenient. That is why it is right that the cabinet should come forward with a proposal on how we can solve this problem. We need to test harrowingness as quickly as possible. It happens that people do not qualify for a residence permit but that there is something very special about it. Then take that with you as soon as you can. This can be done with a different approach: if not the Secretary of State the valve is at the very end but the head of the IND at the very beginning. Then the right can check if the IND has weighed everything carefully. If the Supreme Court agrees, it'll stop. Then people have to leave, too. Mr. Chairman. This is a balanced approach to a very complicated theme. It is no secret that this coalition has different ideas about asylum and migration. The number of people we resettle through the UNHCR goes back to the number that it was also under the previous cabinet: 500. My group regrets this, but cooperation cannot go unpunished. Screaming at each other doesn't solve anything. Listening to each other does. I am therefore pleased that this coalition is able to engage with each other to move forward together on this extremely complex subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u85	Over the past week, the Netherlands has been allowed to look at a negotiation behind closed doors between four parties, where it would mainly be that the VVD didn't want to change anything and the three other parties, including yours, wanted an extension of the children's pardon et cetera. I like the extension of the children's pardon. But now we read in the letter that the number of people you can resettle is reduced from 750 to 500. I thought that's a concession the VVD demanded. Now I hear Mrs Van Toorenburg say that she does not mind at all. What about D66? You just said you're sorry. Do you find it a pity or do you not find it incredibly painful?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u86	No, that's very acidic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u87	It's very acidic. So at that point, D66 wouldn't have wanted that reduction in resettlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u88	No. We'd like to go from 500 to 750. So we're very sorry that we turned that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u89	That's clear language. Then we'll go to that discretionary jurisdiction. That is another point that has suddenly emerged. Does D66 consider the new discretionary policy to be an improvement or do you see it more as a concession?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u90	In fact, I think this is a very interesting solution that is in the middle of Mr Azmani's previous proposal of November and the proposal that Mrs Van Toorenburg and I have tabled and which I believe has received broad support. Our proposal is about how to consider this harrowingness as early as possible in the procedure and Mr Azmani's proposal is about how to prevent the discretionary power from being used by a political game. In my view, this actually combines those two aspects by laying it down with the head of the IND in the first procedure that is being conducted. If someone applies for a residence permit but is not eligible for it while there is something special going on, then the head of the IND may consider it after advice. If that leads to an agreement, it will be nice and nobody else will talk about it anymore. If it leads to a rejection, the judge may consider whether the IND has weighed it sufficiently. Then there may be an appeal. And then it ends. You then put that valve forward from the back and you took it a little more out of the political sphere. I think that is a very interesting compromise. I think it is very good that we have come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u91	Rounding up. Can I say, then, that the discretionary power is not being abolished in any way, but is being transformed and transferred to another body? Is that how I'm supposed to see it? If so, is that an improvement according to your party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u92	The discretion of the Secretary of State disappears and a similar power goes to the head of the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u93	Everyone, almost everyone, will find it a good idea to weigh up any harrowing as early as possible. I don't think that's what the difference of opinion is about. The question is what has been agreed on a weighting at the very end: can it still be? You could get in trouble if you've been here a long time. No one wants that to happen, but experience has shown that this is happening. According to the letter, it is the first application procedure: then it can be done. But there is sometimes a second or third application procedure. Does what has been agreed mean that in no way can you appeal to the individual harrowingness of your situation to still qualify for a discretionary pardon or what you want to call it? Is that a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u94	In practice, I see in the dossiers submitted to me, I do not go into them in detail, because that would not be appropriate here as it concerns circumstances that are already happening from the outset. Very often it means that people disagree with a decision, that they do indeed take the very last one again or that they submit a discretionary request that has been rejected again several times afterwards. We'll get that out. In my opinion, the search I am experiencing in the Chamber is: what happens if something changes in the country of origin in the meantime or if someone becomes seriously ill? Of course, there is simply a repeated application for asylum or an appeal to Article 64. I don't think that has anything to do with this discretionary power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u95	No, this is precisely the point: that a repeated application for asylum is possible for such people. Then it may be that during such a repeated application for asylum there will be a time when you would like to appeal to them. That can still be done now on the discretionary power, now of the Secretary of State, later on of the director of the IND. The question is whether it has been agreed that we will be able to do so, or whether we will not be able to do so later. That's the question. I was also talking about it with Mr Voordewind and Mrs Van Toorenburg also spoke about it. I would now like to ask Mr Groothuizen what he thinks has been agreed. Does that appeal still exist, or can't it be anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u96	The letter is crystal clear, I think. This is the first application procedure. Then lets you test it, then the judge says something about it on appeal and then it's over and people have to leave the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u97	The answer is therefore: no, during a second or third repeated application there is no longer any possibility of recourse to any discretionary power of anyone. That's the right conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u98	It's the first application procedure, yes. I gave you the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u99	Now D66 says something different than Mrs Van Toorenburg just said. Here's what I asked her. Suppose you have had the appeal of your asylum procedure; something changes in the country of origin or there is a medical situation; you apply for a new procedure, which can lead to an appeal. In that second instance and in that appeal, do you still have the right to that valve, which Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly gave? Then can you still rely on the discretionary power for harrowing, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u100	I think I answered that in Mr Van Ojik's question. This is the first application procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u101	Then I conclude that the answer is "no" and that there is a difference of understanding and explanation of discretion: what exactly is it and how is it defined? I have another question. What if the appeal was and someone says he turns out to be gay after all? That could be a child, that could also be a young man. Is there any possibility of recourse to discretionary powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u102	No, but it is to make a new asylum application.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u103	Then I can only conclude that there is a possibility of appeal, but that there is no longer a right to a discretionary request, while you must also recognise that there can always be a reason for distress? In almost all the pardon cases that have passed, the first appeal has already passed. And you're going to abolish it. I have to conclude that, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u104	It seems as if Mrs. Kuiken is a bit looking for some sort of watertight system that can never come into being again. I'm afraid I can't offer her that. I was asked, "What's the deal?" She then raises the question: but what if someone then calls on homosexuality? Well, then you have to file a repeated asylum application, and it will be reviewed at that time. But we are bringing this harrowingness to the first procedure, in order to prevent it from becoming a kind of moment that is endlessly postponed. It'll be tested there and taken quickly by the judge. I think that's a big win. It can be judged twice by a judge, who then says: is this sufficiently taken into account by the IND, yes or no? In principle, after that judgment of the judge, people must also leave. That's the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u105	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr Groothuizen may be pleased with what he is pleased with, but I conclude that there is a difference of opinion between Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA and D66 on exactly what that discretion means and whether it is abolished or not. That is essential in this debate. That's what we're here for: to get that clarity. 'Cause what you're taking care of for these kids is nice, but there's always new cases. You're not gonna get rid of shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u107	That is a repetition of an earlier remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u108	Well, Mr President, then, of course, Mrs Kuik does not do justice to the overall approach of the package. It is true that there is no way of abolishing shrewdness, but what we must avoid is that it takes so long to deal with these cases. And you do that by pushing forward those valves that were at the back. You do this by ensuring that the procedures that are fast on paper can be implemented quickly in practice. And you do that by having the Van Zwol committee look again at how these formal procedures might be completed even better and in a different way. Then you can make a lot of profit. If Mrs. Kuik asks, does Mr. Groothuizen have it completely waterproof at the end of the ride? Then the answer will be: no, I fear that it will never be completely waterproof, as it is in any legal sphere, and certainly in the right of asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u109	That too has been said. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u110	To whom and in what way is the application of that discretionary power reported?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u111	How we report on that, I don't know. But if you are asking whether the Secretary of State is ultimately politically responsible for everything that is happening within the IND, the answer is, of course, "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u112	No, I didn't ask that question. I was wondering something in the context of greater transparency and showing how that competence is being applied. Everyone thinks that's a little special competence. The Secretary of State often cannot say anything about this; he could not do so in the case of Lili and Howick. This competence comes within a different framework, it is applied earlier. My question is simply very simple: is the number of people to whom discretion has been applied shared? Are the reasons shared? Is that shared with the Room? So in what way and to whom is the information provided regarding the application of the new discretionary power?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u113	I think we have just dealt with this in detail. How that is applied shall be reviewed by the court. This is a major gain compared to the current situation. If the head IND has spoken about these particular, poignant circumstances, the judge can see if he thinks that has happened in a good, balanced way. It is likely that case law will develop in due course. Mr Azarkan asked how the Chamber would be informed. If you want to get numbers, you should do that, but I don't think it's super desirable for all kinds of super-private information about people here in the Chamber to be shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u114	Again, I do not have a ready-made solution for that. I don't want to go in any direction. Mr. Groothuizen wants to move in a certain direction. Is the Secretary of State responsible? Do we have to share this? I was just asking a question. There is a new application of discretionary power. That's what we've been thinking about with the four parties. How will the Chamber be informed? Does that happen confidentially in general consultation with the Secretary of State? I was just asking a question. How and how is that application reported?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u115	I have already said that if Mr Azarkan has any questions about this, I think he should put them to the Secretary of State in due course. He can always ask for anything. He can say: how often has this been applied? How do you do that? Only, on individual matters, it becomes complicated reporting to the Chamber. For the rest, that individual review is reserved for the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u116	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u117	This is a little too easy, if you've thought of something with four parties. I'm not asking for anything complicated. You've figured something out with four parties and you want to change something in the way we apply something. My question is: is there also provision for information to be provided in such a way as to be clearly crystallised? Again, is the total number applied? Is case law shared? Et cetera. That is simply a simple question to Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr. Chairman. I think I have heard the same question here three times, and the fourth time the answer will be the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr. Chairman. If you'll excuse me, a small quiz question to Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u120	Depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u121	Oh, dear!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u122	Who said this? "It is inconceivable that the cabinet should disregard a judge's ruling. The government will then stand outside the law and my party will oppose it to the utmost and demand immediate action." Whose wise words were those?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u123	Well, it sounds to me like Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u124	Look, you passed this quiz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u125	That's good!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u126	You can pick up the vacuum cleaner right there. But seriously, that is what your group chairman, Mr Jetten, said on the Urgenda matter. He said: The law is being broken, the Court has ruled on this, there had to be 8% less CO emissions. We do not accept that, and that will have to be achieved, because that court ruling must be respected. And now we have illegals, the judge has said: you are finished, you are not allowed to be in the Netherlands. The IND said that, the judge said it, and on appeal as well. Explain to me, why is D66 when it comes to Urgenda and the left-wing climate hobbies at once from the party that says "we have to comply with the law" and when it comes to illegals you say, "Well, you know what, we're just making an arrangement. They laid the law on their boots; we're fine with that"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u127	But we don't say that either. In the end, everyone has to comply with the law and with court rulings. This applies to people in any procedure, and so does the State. But we, like D66, have not closed our eyes to the reality that if things like that do not happen, which leads to the fact that children are sometimes here for years, are rooted in a certain community and that it can be extremely damaging for them if they still have to be deported and that this also causes a lot of unrest in local communities. That is why we think that at some point you should also iron over your heart by hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u128	This isn't the beginning of an answer, is it? This is the hypocrisy at the top, isn't it? When it comes to climate, you say: "You have to abide by the law" and when it comes to ordinary people, illegals in this case, you say: "Well, we iron over the heart by hand and you don't have to comply with the law." I mean, D66 becomes a very dangerous party if they make compliance with that rule of law dependent on whether it's a left-wing hobby of them that they like or not. It can't be, the law is equal for everyone, everyone has to abide by it or everyone doesn't. If D66 is going to say, "for climate, we're going to hold you to that and not for illegals," then you're going to be a very scary party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u129	Becoming? I hear a statement I do not share. I don't think I'm a member of a scary party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u130	Take a look at the contents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u131	I have already answered you after the first question. People have to obey the law. The state must also abide by the law. And yet, in the end, we see in the world that sometimes there are cases where its effects fall disproportionately on children who cannot do anything about it. You can show clemency for that. If Mr Wilders says, "I'm not showing that leniency," I'll leave it to him. We'll show you that leniency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u132	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u133	Finally. It is clear where the leniency of the D66 Group lies. Because in this Urgenda case, with even more, 8% more CO emissions by 2020 next year, that means that we will have to take action this afternoon, and we will be talking about it this afternoon, which is going to cost people extra money. There is even talk of an even higher energy bill, abolishing Sunday shopping or showering up to five minutes a day. Those measures would be necessary to make it all. Where is your solidarity and your compassion with the Dutchman, who is entitled to pay all that climate madness out of his wallet? Why do you not show solidarity with the Dutchman who is going to pay for it, but with the illegal person who breaks the rules? Think about it more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u134	Again, I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u135	Mrs. Kuik, you may ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u136	I also have a quote from the newspaper, but I'm not gonna play quiz, because it's serious enough. In fact, I was able to say from what Mr Groothuizen said: 'Screwing the children's pardon does not mean that we will not be able to deal with children who are now rooted here in the future'. Can he explain this quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u137	Where did you read it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u138	I think it was in the A.D.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u139	I can't explain that quote. We now have a solution for most of the children in distress. I explained to you that we must prevent these children from getting into that situation again. How do you do that? You do this by keeping the procedures under review; I am very curious to know what the Van Zwol committee is saying about that. You do this by bringing forward the valves that are at the back and allowing that distress to be weighed as much as possible on the front, with children being involved and making it possible for the IND to set up an independent committee. You do this by investing heavily in the IND by means of resources, so that they can also carry out the procedures that are fast on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u140	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u141	Thanks for the list, but this is not what you had in the paper. I'm sorry you don't remember what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u142	You mean Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u143	I am sorry that Mr Groothuizen doesn't remember what he said, but in the newspaper he does make the following appeal: boys, you must always be generous, even when it comes to rooted children in the future. Am I supposed to conclude that this sentence doesn't make any sense? Or does he still mean that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u144	No, you have to conclude that we're going to make sure that rooting doesn't happen anymore. At that rooting it is not a matter of one year or eighteen months, but of many, many years. That's because we weren't in order, but we're gonna try to fix it now. Mrs Kuik continues to stress the fact that you can never rule out 100% that in fifteen years' time, if we have a cup of coffee, we will come to the conclusion that we have not succeeded in doing so. I'm sure that's all right, but I think that's why she's missing the steps that we're taking seriously right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u145	Mr President, Mr Groothuizen himself began...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u146	Take it easy, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u147	No, but I'm fine now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u148	I'm asking you not to repeat it. The questions and the answers are repeated all the time. You may make one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Groothuizen began his speech precisely by saying that there are no 100% regulations; there may be new problems. But now he constantly says: we have now found the ideal solution, hallelujah, after us no problem anymore. That's naive, isn't it? That's not true, is it? Can't anyone promise that? Then don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u150	I have just said explicitly that the ideal solution does not exist. If Mrs Kuik is going to twist my words in this way, then I do not think there is any question of an exchange of thoughts anymore, but of making false images.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, you too must keep your interruption brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u152	Always, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u153	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u154	I have one more enlightening question. The existing harrowing cases will now be re-assessed. It's about 600 children. What about the Grigoryan family, which was brutally evicted last Monday? So this expulsion came just too early for the new policy. Is D66 gonna look at that too? Or is it true for those people that they've had bad luck because they're already gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u155	You might want to ask the Secretary of State, but in the end every settlement knows its border cases. People who left earlier have indeed, in that sense, had bad luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u156	I understand that immediately. However, it is clear to this family that it was eligible for that new assessment, for that extended children's pardon. I propose that we put that question together with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u157	Yes, but there is always a balance, including in the review. An exception to that rule is, for example, when people are suspected of war crimes. Then you can ask the question about the kids. Do they have anything to do with that or not? The answer is, of course, that you can't rub that on those kids, so that's very acidic. If Mr Van Dijk asks if all the acidity has disappeared from this discussion: no, I do not think so, but I think it has gotten much better and many times better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u158	Thank you, Mr. Grotehuizen. I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u159	Mr. Chairman. You won't let a child know tomorrow's uncertainty where you are. You're gonna give a kid the assurance that you know you can go back to the same school tomorrow and play with the same kids again. That is why we are pleased that a solution has been found for those children who have been in trouble for so long, those little 700 children, and whom we found, especially after Lili and Howick, that a solution had to be found. I am glad that this solution has been found for this group of children and that they now have that certainty. It does raise a number of questions, first of all a question about the scheme itself. How soon are these kids gonna be clear? How soon will it be tested? What does this mean, Mr Van Dijk, that this question has rightly been asked for the children who have been deported very recently between about 7 September and today? Do they still deserve mercy? Can they still count on this pardon? I also have a number of concerns. We have already expressed this in part in the debate. They're about discretion first. Is it abolished, as VVD and D66 say here, or is it still a valve, for example in the context of a second application for procedure, because the circumstances in the country of origin change, or because there is a medical situation? Can you still appeal to that harrowingness? We know that, if there is a medical circumstance, or if a request is made because of homosexuality or converts, it is not always so black-and-white and that procedures do not always offer a solution. It is precisely harrowingness and discretionary requests that can then provide a solution. Does the Secretary of State now mean that he is actually moving this to the IND, to a committee, that his responsibility is gone with that? Isn't the Secretary of State always ultimately responsible for the decisions the IND makes? Does not the right to a discretionary request, the right to happiness, the right to mercy always remain? I'd like to know. Here in this house it is said that we will be able to test on what grounds a discretionary request is granted, but how hard do you make that? Is that exactly what you're talking about? If so, why haven't we already done so in legislation? Is it not true that harrowingness does not apply because it is always cases that are not entirely testable, not entirely planable, not fully foreseeable? How do you make that transparent? How exactly do you make that testable? How real is it that you cover that up 100%? Then one last very specific question about discretion. Suppose you've gone through some procedures. Turns out there's a convert. There appears to be homosexuality that has not been expressed before. Is there still the possibility of appealing to harrowingness? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then there is the children's pardon itself and the abolition of it. Is it real to expect that there will never again be rooted children? Didn't the children's pardon have the effect of at least having a stick behind the door? The Secretary of State is now going to promise that asylum procedures will be speeded up, but we are only seeing their duration at the moment going up to one and a half years. So what stick do we have behind the door to ensure that there are no cases where procedures at first instance take much longer than, for example, five years? Is it going to be an automatism to grant a discretionary request, or is it, unfortunately, peanut butter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u160	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u161	May I ask Mrs. Chicken what stick behind the door we now have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u162	We didn't have a well-functioning children's pardon. So I was very much in agreement with it, and for that I also congratulated him on the need to change it. But by abolishing it now, we have not necessarily removed the problems for the future. I hope that Mr Voordewind realises that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mrs. Kuik herself gives the answer. In fact, we only had an empty shell in the final scheme, which only one child was covered, which could possibly have been removed by discretionary powers. What the coalition is doing now is trying to clear those kids up a lot faster, earlier in the process. At the same time, the old cases remaining with the definitive scheme that you have made and which therefore no longer functioned are now being re-assessed. The expectation is that the largest group can stay here. What does the Labour Party think of that package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u164	Giving children certainty, rather in the process, discretionary powers, also do justice to an initiative bill that I had with GroenLinks, among others, to regulate precisely that: very good! However, this does not mean that all future cases are well regulated. This does not mean that the procedures automatically go faster. That doesn't mean there's never gonna be any more rooted children. That does not mean that there will never again be people who say: I have converted to Christianity. It's not just about children, it's about adults. And if you don't keep that valve, I think you're gonna create a problem for the future, and then we're gonna be back here in a few years, talking about a pardon that's really necessary. That is where my concerns lie, and that is what I am asking the Secretary of State and I will also ask you questions. I am already hearing a difference of opinion and a difference of opinion as to how, for example, this valve of discretion should look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u165	I mean, we've been here almost every week or every month, when it comes to the harrowingness of the rejected children's ministers, right? It was playing. As long as the final arrangement was there that almost didn't include a child, we stood here on the microphone and talked to each other about how we can solve it. So I expected Mrs Kikking to start by saying that it is very nice for so many children to finally get some clarity. And I really hope that the package we have now made will also receive the appreciation of the Labour Party, because we are trying to prevent people from having to appeal and going over those five years. Then we can prioritize those children more quickly in the procedure and organize more capacity at the IND, so they don't go over those five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u166	Dear Mr Voordewind, I have just begun to say that I am so happy for those children! I have started my first question to Mrs Van Toorenburg by complimenting you, and I will do that very well here. Well done! Happy! But that does not relieve me of the duty, as we are making some fundamental changes, namely in the discretionary power, that is to say, the total abolition of that children's pardon scheme, which also had a reason, namely rooting after five years of questioning and expressing my concerns about it. That's what I'm doing here. The Secretary of State will have to answer that later, also because I do not see that there is a complete agreement as to how, for example, that valve of discretionary power will look like. Mr. Chairman. My final point, Mr President, is that we are now going to take down 250 vulnerable refugees. Especially now that we see that the pressure in the region is enormous, that more and more people are fleeing, for whatever reason, I think that gesture by those 250 vulnerable people should have stayed alive. I am very sorry about that and I do not think that is necessary, especially at this time. Finally, Mr President. You know that I am working with GroenLinks on an initiative proposal to better anchor children's interests at the start of the asylum procedure. I hope that will also be the outcome of the package as it stands. That is what we will have to see, otherwise we will continue with our initiative law and I would like to invite all parties to cooperate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Before I give the floor to Mrs Akerboom, I would like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u168	I give the floor to Mrs Akerboom on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Last night, day-long tension partly came to an end. 90% of the children who are rooted here are likely to remain. In all likelihood, because for many children it is only a question of whether they belong to the happy 90%. Can they build a bright future in the Netherlands? That's the question for a lot of them. Is the Secretary of State prepared to clarify this very quickly? Mr. Chairman. The expulsion of children who grew up in the Netherlands and consider this country a home is the opposite of compassion. It's ruthless. These children, often born and raised in the Netherlands, were put on a plane, back to a country they often do not know, of which they do not speak the language and where they are sometimes not even safe. The cabinet has now presented a plan. We are pleased with that, but there are also a lot of questions about the development of the Party for Animals. The children's pardon will be abolished and, in the meantime, a transitional arrangement will be introduced. Moreover, the cabinet sees that it is inhumane to oblige people to cooperate in promoting their own fate, the so-called "co-work criterion." My group is concerned about the children who are now at risk of falling between ships. What will be in the transitional arrangements for these children? After the 600 or 700 children who are now being re-assessed, are no children eligible for the children's pardon, while the staff shortages will not be resolved tomorrow? Will the extra money be in time for the IND or will the children's pardon be thrown away with the bath water? The discretionary power now goes to the IND director, who assesses how painful a case is. More powers to a stripped-up service, that is what we are concerned about. Besides, what if new evidence comes up or a legal error has been made? Can the Secretary of State answer the question as to whether this review can take place a second time? The proposed plan falls or stands for shorter procedures. That 13 million isn't gonna change that tomorrow. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that in the meantime there are no more harrowing cases? Mr. Chairman. Once again, the debate is about patching up and holding off. The root causes of the fact that these children have come here and become rooted are hardly given attention. People don't leave their homeland by choice nine times out of ten. Our wealth goes directly at the expense of people elsewhere. As long as we don't recognize that, we're not getting anywhere near a real solution. The refugee problem will continue to exist and grow as long as we do not remove the breeding ground of refugee and migratory flows. And that also makes it so poignant that these children have been traded out against 250 vulnerable refugees. Mr. Chairman. We hope that a majority of this house will show compassion and allow the interests of the weakest to prevail today over the rights of the strongest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u170	Thank you, Mrs Akerboom. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u171	Thank you, Mr President. The discussion about underage foreigners who have been staying in the Netherlands for a long time, and their fate here in the Netherlands, has been going on for decades. We are adding another chapter to that today. If you let that work on you, frankly, it doesn't cheer you up. Firstly, not because of the children involved and who are in uncertainty for so long. But it doesn't cheer you up either because of the inconsistencies in the policies that sometimes exist. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the present compromise, we ask ourselves whether this is the sustainable solution to the problem. Let me start with the conclusion. I would like to be influenced by the Secretary of State so that, in the second term, I may have to make some nuances to that conclusion. For the moment, however, we have the strong impression that there is every appearance of a typical Hague drawing table compromise whereby, in the short term, justice and long-term mercy are handed in. Mr. Chairman. We welcome the abolition of the definitive regime. The SGP has never been in favour of it. At the same time, it is a good thing that the files of over 700 children are being widely re-assessed. However, we are faced with the fact that there is in fact a general children's pardon again. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is really undesirable to make general statements for all these specific situations at the same time? Why, by the way, did we not choose to look at these matters with discretion? It is also a good thing to take into account distressing situations in the future, but we do have doubts about that. Is it really gonna work if the IND checks on this early in the process? The harrowing test works in the current procedure, doesn't it? And how will the Secretary of State actually prevent the accumulation of procedures? The discretionary power now also acts as a means of correcting the culpable behaviour of the government over the emergence of distressing situations after a final ruling by the judge. Are we not going to have a very inexcusable asylum procedure when the final review comes to court? Or, if necessary, in the umpteenth procedure in the event of a distressing situation, can there still be recourse to compelling humanitarian reasons? And if so, isn't that actually a situation where you designate the discretionary power differently, but actually apply it? Why was it chosen to give the Director of the IND the power to assess whether a permit can be granted under restrictions other than those provided for in the Aliens' Decision? That is a point I would also like clarity about. A simple question. If the IND makes a discretionary decision later, whose name will it be under the letter? The warden's? So are we going to give an official legal authority or is the decision still in the name of the Secretary of State? So to what extent are we dealing with a dummy solution? I also refer to the various interruptions surrounding the question of ministerial responsibility. He's just gonna stay with the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. We almost forgot, but in the meantime the Van Zwol Committee is still fully in the process of evaluating the policy on underage asylum seekers. Will the Van Zwol Committee also assess the existing agreements on feasibility and feasibility, in the light of its findings? Finally, Mr President. Over the past few years, we as the House of Representatives have always been faced with facts and solutions have been found in backrooms. As far as we are concerned, it would be a good idea for us as a Chamber to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the asylum policy of the last few decades in order to learn from this, regardless of incidents and uncomfortable situations, how best to organise the asylum procedure. This is a bit like the mandate of the Van Zwol committee, but we would argue that we should look into the last few decades to see how the discussions have been conducted, what decisions have been taken and what the pitfalls have been where we have apparently been indulging over and over again. A deeper digging investigation, then. Mr President, I would like to leave it at that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u172	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Azmani, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u173	Mr. Chairman. We have a beautiful country that we've built together. But it's not self-evident. We have to work on it every day. How we deal with migration, how we control who comes here and how much. When decisions and judgments are systematically ignored, it affects the sense of justice and people also feel that we are losing control of our country. We need to work on that together. That is why this was precisely the commitment of the VVD's negotiations yesterday. And no, I am not going to go into detail: the negotiations have also reached an agreement that hurts us and which may at first strengthens the feeling of injustice about who comes in here. But let me outline why, according to the VVD, the agreed package leads to a fairer and stricter system in the future. In the future, the stretching of illegal residence in the Netherlands will become meaningless, because there is no longer a child's pardon to appeal to. The Secretary of State no longer has the power to grant a licence. When families with children apply for asylum in the Netherlands, they can only allow distressing circumstances to be considered at the beginning of their procedure. The head of the IND will check this out. If the family is then told that it is not allowed to stay in the Netherlands, went through the whole procedure and even if the judge has confirmed this judgment, that is really the end point. For example, there is more clarity, procedures are shortened and families are no longer held in false hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u174	This is a hugely unbelievable story. Mr Azmani says that the children's pardon is being abolished. But all you have to do is look back at the history of the past twenty years to see that five, six new children's pardons have come, with the last two under your responsibility and the other among other parties. So you've gone through the pump after all? The VVD has simply rewarded all those people who are illegal here and who are not cooperating. That is what the Secretary of State himself said when he talked about the criterion of participation that is being abandoned. Who deliberately chose not to do so, people who, according to the Secretary of State, couldn't leave but didn't want to leave, thereby patching up every law and court ruling? The whole of Africa now knows: with Azmani and with the VVD at the helm, there is also the possibility of a general pardon, and so that happens again. Why did you do that? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u175	Because we are also a party looking at the political majorities in this Chamber. I do not really need to give Mr Wilders that political lesson either, but when you see that a party is running and other majorities are about to arise, we are not a party that immediately thinks: well, we are walking away; it is done. That was the case, for example, in the most difficult time, and I do not have to blame you, as I blame you. In 2012, when the economic crisis is on the rise and necessary reforms have to be implemented, you will simply walk away. We are a party that then sits down with the parties and looks at: can we get out of here with each other? If I see that there are two regulations that will encourage people to continue to frustrate things and that we can abolish them, which the PVV also wants, Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly pointed to the motions that your party has tabled on this matter, then I have to take stock of them. I am also taking this balance into account the agreements we made in the coalition agreement. Then I say as a VVD: we are better off on the basis of the current agreements we have made with this coalition than on the basis of the agreements initially contained in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u176	That balance will be made by the VVD-chooser on March 20th. Don't worry about that. That won't be a pretty one for you. It was in the coalition agreement. That is not a new reality; the coalition agreement simply stated, written down by you, that the pardon would not be extended, that it would not be changed. Literally. The Secretary of State said in AO's "I can give you 30 quotes" on behalf of the government that it's not going to change. You didn't have to change that at all. If there are other coalition parties later that say, "We want it, don't we?" Deal's a deal. What are you saying? That in today's debate you will now be complimented on your decision to extend that pardon, from the Labour Party, from the SP, from GroenLinks, and also outside this Chamber, from Defence for Children and from RefugeeWork Netherlands. All left-wing organizations that are now complimenting you. Don't you think I'm in the right game? Shouldn't you be sitting in the benches at GroenLinks right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u177	Well, well, well. Whoa, whoa, whoa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u178	They don't even want you there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u179	Mr. Wilders knows very well where I am and why I'm sitting there, and how I feel about migration and asylum policy. Let that be very clear and clear. And I think it's very clear and clear. We're not running away. We don't do that when things get tough. People in the country are not waiting for any scenarios, for new elections. We're looking at political majorities in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The accusation to Mr Wilders, at the time in 2012, is not only about the fact that he did not want to support the necessary reforms at the time when the Netherlands needed them badly, namely in a time of crisis. But at that time Mr Wilders also knew that Mr Spekman's and Mr Voordewind's rooting law was in the Chamber and that there was a majority in the composition of the Chamber, which supported it. Then you are also bound as a VVD, at the time with the Labour Party in a coalition, to make further arrangements. That's how politics works. I want us to take steps on a path forward, looking at how we can ensure that people do not stay in this country for long, and that we can take control of who we allow and how much we allow, instead of calling a little on the side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u180	The VVD went through the pump hugely. You've been mangled, you've gotten down on your knees for the CDA and the Christian Union. You didn't have to do that. You can talk about 10, 20 years ago, but you didn't have to do this because you had an appointment in the coalition agreement. You could have just kept the CDA to that, you could have just kept the Christian Union: here it is. That didn't have to be a crisis at all, because you made that appointment. You have not complied and you have now become the spokesperson of the Netherlands on the left. You have become the voice of all those left-wing organizations who are now giving you applause. I say to you: the VVD should have become a mouthpiece of the Dutchman. That's what you promised the voter. You have promised the electorate that you will defend his interests. Instead, you will defend the interests of illegals, you will be raised on the shield by the left Netherlands. The VVD isn't worth a dime anymore. March 20: we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u181	There's not really a question, it's big rhetoric, but I'd like to point out the following. We had one great wish, including in the election programme, which we can now live up to. I never expected us to be able to live up to it, namely the abolition of the children's pardon. We had another great wish: that discretionary power. That is why these debates on individual issues are always very politicised, why they all appear in the media, so they are also mediated. We are now ensuring that we now realize those two things, which are very much of a commotion and which, in my view, Mr Fritsma has rightly paid a great deal of attention to in the Chamber, despite the fact that there is a change in majorities in this area of migration policy. Under the terms, we are better off adjusting the agreements in this coalition agreement than we were in the coalition agreement first. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u182	Following this interruption by Mr Wilders, it is very tempting to start congratulating Mr Azmani on this agreement, but I would probably embarrass him very much if I heard it that way. I will therefore be reluctant to do so. I'd like to know exactly what was agreed. Mr Azmani says proudly: we have agreed that you will only go and test the harrowingness at the beginning. What exactly does that mean: only in the beginning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u183	This means that, if there are poignant aspects in a case, which can be taken into account in the first procedure when assessing whether someone may be admitted here, yes or no. That goes all the way to appeal. It's not like I read in some newspapers that there's going to be some independent committee. There are also German models for this, but that is not the case at all. It's just what's actually happening now. If a decision-maker reviews a case and concludes that someone does not meet the conditions, but that in this individual case it is very painful to send someone back, then he or she submits it to the administration. That's the line. This will also be submitted to an official committee. We now propose that the head of the IND should judge on that basis. That's different from the discretionary power a ruler has. The discretionary power of a ruler is abolished and instead comes a harrowing test, where the head of the IND is responsible for taking into account whether to apply it, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u184	But the question is, what exactly has become different? Mr Azmani does not mention it for nothing in his contribution in the list of things that the VVD has brought in. He says, there are things that bother me. That's that rooted children can stay here now. But one thing he has brought in, namely that you are only at the beginning of this so he said almost literally that he can appeal to the harrowingness, I say, of your particular case. Well, based on that, maybe you can stay here. Apparently, something's changed. What used to be much longer can only now be done in the beginning. That is exactly what we are discussing. We're trying to figure out what the VVD actually pulled at this point, except that not the Secretary of State but the director of the IND under him has to make the decision. I don't see the profit from that. Anyway, he's happy with that; fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u185	I think it's very special. For a few months I was hoarded in this Chamber on the basis of exactly the same proposal. Not only does the head IND get a test based on harrowingness, there is also a limitation in time. It's the first procedure. Mr Van Ojik also knows that people who resort to distressing circumstances have often had a lot of procedures. A long stay in this country leads people to poignant circumstances. If procedures at present have an average lead time of 6 to 46 weeks depending on the procedure, we want to reduce that further, I cannot imagine that there are many poignant circumstances that would require a head-IND to use that power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u186	May I conclude by concluding that what the VVD has brought in is that it will no longer be possible if such a distress occurs later, for example during a second procedure, in which rooting could become more and more a problem or could be a cause for distress? It can only be done in the first procedure, and that is the difference. If a distressing situation arises later, the director of the IND can no longer be called upon to use some kind of discretionary power. That is the difference that has now been realized. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u187	Not alone. It's also by...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u188	Not alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u189	No, that's not just the difference. It's also being depoliticized. To be honest, the way in which individual matters are handled, including in this house, has irritated me enormously in the last six years that I have been spokesperson on this portfolio on behalf of the VVD. In this house, too, individual concrete things have been mentioned today. I don't think the Chamber should do that. It is therefore a good thing that it is depoliticized, that these matters can no longer be brought to the attention of the media, that we limit it in time, because this can only be done in the first procedure, and that this power is not in the hands of the administrator, but in the hands of the head of the IND, and that this is not a discretionary power, because it is a distress test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u190	But then I do not quite understand it, because Mr Voordewind and Mr Groothuizen said: we are going to consider the poignantness from the beginning to the end, not only at the end, but from the beginning. What's the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u191	That is already happening, in the sense that a decision-maker who, when deciding on an application, sees in his file that someone does not meet the conditions, but finds the case particularly distressing, can refer the matter to the Court in order to assess whether the Secretary of State should ultimately make use of his discretionary powers. We're gonna stop doing that. We limit it in time. There is therefore no longer any question of stacking procedures, allowing people to extend their stay and so on, which may lead to distressing circumstances, allowing them, supported by many parties, to appeal even more to a ruler. No, we limit it in time. We're depoliticizing it. We're demedicalizing it. And it's another jurisdiction. There will be a harrowing test, which is reserved for the head of the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u192	Whether it is really limited in time, I will have to hear from Mr Voordewind and the Secretary of State, because I hear different sounds about it. Then there is the question about the IND, which can now give judgment instead of the Secretary of State. My question to Mr Azmani is: who is ultimately responsible for the IND?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u193	All decisions are taken on behalf of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, the many defences, the many decisions that are taken, and all products are finally taken on behalf of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, and there is also a mandate with the Minister for Justice and Security. In the end, the process is so organized, so everything is signed on behalf of, on behalf of, on behalf of. But in this case, the head of the IND and not a political director will make that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u194	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u195	Mr President, a final question on the VVD's assessment of the new agreements that have now been made. They came about because the CDA made a turn. Hundreds of children who had previously threatened eviction will probably be pardoned. Is that a bitter pill for the VVD, or can you just say here: that's really good news for those hundreds of children who have been in uncertainty for years? Where's your heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u196	I have a heart. I also wanted to say that I had just begun to say that I will never blame the children who are born here, who have Dutch friends, who speak the Dutch language and who really do not know the country of origin of the parents. I do not blame these children, but on the other hand the parents are responsible for the fact that these children have been able to live in our society for many years. I always find it too easy for responsibility to be transferred to the government. That responsibility lies with the parents. That is what I think, as I have already said, is the unfairness of that part of the agreement. I find it very difficult to explain, in fact, that I cannot explain to all those parents and children who have obeyed the decisions we have taken as a country and what judges have ruled on. I'm honest with you about that. But I'll never blame the kids, ever. When I see images of rooted, completely humiliated children, they touch me too. But that did not play a part in the considerations we eventually made, because we are against the children's pardon and do not think that parents' behaviour should be rewarded. We would not have chosen this part of the agreement. We therefore find this part of the agreement painful in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u197	It's not an emotional question, it's a substantive question. How is the abolition of discretionary power practically regulated? Is it just a policy change? Is Article 3 of the Aliens Act being amended for this purpose? How's that gonna get shape?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u198	I think it's in the Alien Order. This is a good question to the Secretary of State. If I answer with my legal knowledge: it is the Foreigner's decision, so in principle the Secretary of State can amend it. That doesn't have to go to both rooms. However, the Secretary of State will probably have to ask the Council of State for advice, I estimate. That's it. Then he adjusts the third member.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u199	Then that is indeed a sensible question, because it still depends on time and how hard such a change is. So I'm going to ask the Secretary of State later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u201	Proceed, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u202	Let us also be clear and clear that I have understood that this can be done quite quickly. This is not a matter of a few months, which is being discussed, but of a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u203	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u204	I have already indicated that I find it rather difficult for children and that I would never want to charge it to children. Parents put them in that situation. That makes it feel unfair. Mr. Chairman. We weigh that against agreements that prevent new similar cases from arising again, agreements that prevent people from staying because they think that after five years they are eligible for a child welfare scheme or that organisations are going to take action to use discretionary powers on the part of a ruler. Because we are finally fighting all of this, the VVD also supports these agreements. We're abolishing the children's pardon per day. This was not for nothing the commitment of the VVD to the negotiation of the coalition agreement, as I said earlier. Secondly, we are also abolishing another incentive to extend illegal residence, namely discretionary power. It's going to expire. The assessment of distressing circumstances will therefore be carried out by the highest official of the IND at the beginning of the procedure and only in the first procedure. The judge's judgment is really the end of the story. Thirdly, we ensure that the number of people allowed to enter the Netherlands goes down considerably to some of the pre-government agreement. We also take account of support in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The VVD always wants to ensure that real refugees are helped, preferably in their own region and otherwise also limited in the Netherlands. But in order to maintain the basis for this, people who are not refugees and can safely return will have to leave our country. It is up to us to clarify quickly whether or not they should stay here. That's fair enough. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State indicated in the letter that the decision on the Spring Note will consider how the IND can be financed in a more stable way. But it ultimately requires us to work towards a system in which people come to the Netherlands on invitation and no longer irregularly travel for an application. Only then have you solved the big problem, because we all know that the return policy has been the Achilles heel of foreign policy for many years. Mr. Chairman. They were tough negotiations with a result that has advantages and disadvantages for us. But to keep the country we have built together beautiful or to hold the vase together, as our Prime Minister says, you must also be prepared to take difficult measures. That's what the VVD stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u205	I have another question for Mr Azmani. Was it the idea to reduce the number of vulnerable refugees we invite to come from countries where there are a lot of refugees, let me put it this way, from 750 to 500 a proposal from the VVD in the discussions? I now know from D66 that it finds that acid. So at least it wasn't from D66. Did that come from Mr Azmani or Mr Dijkhoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u206	Well, I'm not a person who's always gonna talk things out of negotiations, but if you want to take stock and balance the coalition agreement, it's a package of everyone... then it won't be weird for you to go back to agreements we had before the coalition agreement. That's from 750 to 500.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u207	I don't know if you're taking stock of a government agreement by going back to pre-government agreements, but I said that I think it's a miserable deal on this point. So I'd like to know who's proud of that and who's saying, "Gooh, I've negotiated hard and what did I get? That we take less than 250 vulnerable refugees into the Netherlands. I'm proud." Is that Mr Azmani? It is certainly not Mr Grothuizen, because he thinks it is acidic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u208	That's what you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u209	Mrs Van Toorenburg said that she didn't think it was such a good arrangement; I'm going to summarize it. So I ask Mr Azmani whether he is proud to have negotiated this. Or is someone else proud? Someone must be happy about this now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u210	That's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u211	I think it is important to support society. That's what our party always looks at. So you can't allow unlimited numbers of migrants in this country. People are concerned, as I see it, about the loss of their own identity and of all those freedoms that generations have fought hard for before us. That's what this society's worried about. What does this also mean for the welfare state? Do I actually still have the right to a social housing facility? Do I have to wait any longer for a social rental? Do I even get the care I actually need? Those are all issues. I know GroenLinks doesn't think so. GroenLinks thinks that unlimited migration would be welcome; none of that matters. We want to set limits to that. That means that in agreements we make with each other, you bring a balance, also on the basis of the agreements we made in the coalition agreement. This isn't that inhuman either, I'd say, because a few years ago, we always assumed 500. Yes, it's quite a few less; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u212	This isn't about taking in unlimited refugees. Mr Azmani knows that very well. This is about 750 or 500. Mr Azmani says here with a dry eye that he thinks that the Netherlands has saved its support for his policy because he has now decided to absorb 250 less of the 65 million refugees worldwide in the Netherlands; 250 out of 75 million are also 250 of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u213	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u214	He himself does not believe that he has now done a great service in the Netherlands? Be proud of it and cherish it in your own hardness, but don't sell nonsense by saying that it saved your support in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u215	To be honest, I don't hear a question in that. It was more of Van Ojik's conclusion and I'm throwing it away in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u216	Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u217	I have heard Mr Azmani mention the word'support area' twice: once at the end as a kind of conclusion and the other time in reply to Mr Van Ojik's question. My question is: what does that prove?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u218	I am much to be found in the country; let that be clear and clear. I speak to many people, not only in the party but also outside the party. In this society people worry about what it does when you have no control over migration. It is not for nothing that I made a controversial proposal on this in 2015. I have also been honed away, as with that discretionary power, but eventually steps were taken and the discretionary power was simply realized. That's why I'm in politics. As a country, we cannot allow an uncontrolled influx of migrants. It can't be because we know a welfare state. It can't be, because you also want to protect your own identity as a society that generations have fought for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u219	That last thing, that we can record unlimited people, no one here in the Chamber claims. The question I asked was what that support is now showing. Those 750 have been reduced to 500. Mr Azmani is very pleased with that; he is proud of that. Mr Van Ojik says: it cannot be that you are very happy that you cannot record the most vulnerable in this way? Then came the argument of acceptance. Now I understand that Mr Azmani is some sort of traveling survey agency. He asks people in a valid and reliable way about the basis of support. But there are agencies that have done research, and it shows that 50% believe that people should have a place, including in our society. And these are the asylum seekers. 25% is very critical of this and does not think so. My question is: how do you indicate these figures? Are those the numbers of the VVD supporters? What is it that shows that by abolishing 250 refugees in a most evil position, we are improving our society and defending our prosperity here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u220	We're all people's representatives here. I am here trying to represent that part of our society, which I am also speaking, which is concerned about the number of migrants admitted. I can imagine that those same people might be angry with us: "Why, for example, have we reached these agreements at all? Now people are actually coming and they may be entitled to a residence permit." To those people, I think it is fair to say: then we do it a little less elsewhere. Not because it is inhumane to do it a little less, but because we take into account that this society cannot carry everything. That means that we are able to absorb those 63.7 million......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Azarkan knows that too. So there will always be a limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u221	The answers are very long. My questions are rather short. We are talking about nearly 65 million people and we are taking 250 fewer people. The argument is that we cannot accept these 63 million people. No one's saying that. Mr Azmani must be honest in this: that is not the support of the Netherlands, but the support of his supporters or the support of the people he speaks very specifically. Maybe he's talking to a hundred people on a day that says, "The asylum seekers, we shouldn't have any of them, they're gonna take our homes, they're gonna take our jobs, do something about it as a representative of the people." I don't know who he's talking to, but that's the honest story. But don't come here with: the support in the Netherlands. 'Cause he just doesn't have those numbers. You're not questioning that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u222	I think you should be quite naive to see how this society relates and what concerns live in this society. Some parties are very strong in addressing these concerns, but do not always have solutions or real solutions. My party addresses these concerns and tries to find solutions to them. Today we have discussed two more that no one has ever thought we could realize. One of them was even hoarded in this Chamber a few months ago. Well, at least I am pleased with the result that we are again taking steps towards the right path. In the end, we must be able to determine how many people we allow here and who we allow in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u223	Thank you, Mr Azmani. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a special day yesterday. Something the Christian Union and D66 have been committed to for years is inside. Something we didn't think possible two weeks ago happened within a week of negotiation. Maybe I can put it this way: the miracles aren't over yet. Three months of negotiations took place during the formation, and now the coalition parties come together to strike a new, improved balance between a humane and an effective asylum policy, especially for those vulnerable asylum children. The current children's pardon did not function well because in fact no one was covered anymore. The Christian Union therefore advocated doing justice to the children who had their roots and had to live in uncertainty here for more than five years, and sometimes ten years. The coalition parties decided to look at these procedures again for various reasons, after the CDA had indicated that it also wanted a solution for rooted children. This resulted in a new package of measures announced by Secretary of State Harbers yesterday. This includes the wishes of the four different parties. First of all, the re-evaluations of the children's officers. It should not be surprising that the Christian Union is very pleased that the previously rejected children's wards are being re-assessed and that it is expected that a large proportion of those 700 previously rejected rooted children will still be allowed to remain in the Netherlands. They will be re-assessed, replacing the co-worker criterion with the availability criterion, reporting obligation, departure obligation and departure calls. That proposal had already been put forward by the Christian Union during the formation. Most children were rejected under the definitive scheme because of this participation criterion. That is why it is expected that the bulk of asylum status will now be available. I would ask the Secretary of State if we can assume that until these reviews have taken place, he will not deport any of these previously rejected children's wards. I would like an explanation and a commitment on that point. Then the abolition of the children's pardon. Because, within the current regime, almost no children were eligible for the grant and because the rights of the child are now taken into account earlier in the procedure to see if there are distressing situations, and because the Van Zwol Committee still has to come up with advice to see if we can speed up the handling of procedures, the Christian Union was able to agree to the termination of the current children's pardon regime. We must prevent children from having to wait for a final decision for more than five years in the future. Everything needs to be put in place now. I still have the question to the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to give priority to the treatment of families in the asylum procedure, as he is now doing for the safelanders and the Dublin claimants. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on what is possible on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u225	Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind deserves a compliment, because everyone who followed this subject knew that the children's pardon was a stone on the stomach of the Christian Union. You have now realized that hundreds of children will still be subject to a children's pardon. That's the good part of the story. But now the price paid for that, and that is the subject of discussion. What happens to discretionary power now? To what extent is it still possible in the future for distressing cases to get access to the Netherlands? Because everywhere we read and everywhere we hear that there will be no new children's pardon. How does Mr Voordewind stand in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u226	The beauty of this package is that it is trying to bring a new balance to a fair and humane asylum policy. That means that we want to prevent children from going to work with them over those five years, that we want to assess the situation earlier, and that we also want to see that there is distress, and that we do not wait until all the procedures have been completed to get to that test. The special feature of this test is perhaps............................................................................................................................................................................... I will repeat it later, but this may already be a part of the Chicken/Van Ojik Act, which also calls for a better and heavier assessment of children's rights. In this way, we try to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u227	I fully agree with this theory, but it is of course paper: now a children's pardon for the current cases and in future faster procedures, then you don't need a child's pardon at all. That's great, if that could work. But Mr Voordewind knows as well as I do that you cannot eliminate poignant cases in the future. And yet there is now a cry that that must end. Is that right or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u228	Colleagues have already made it very clear that it is also quite clear in the letter "Join" that the discretionary power is being transformed into, is being replaced by, the harrowing test. It will therefore continue to be checked whether there is a poignant situation. In fact, it is being examined separately, even in the current procedure. It's more likely to be tested. It shall be examined separately. Attorneys can even go to court to ask whether that harrowingness has really been taken into account. So there will also be a judicial test, to see if that harrowingness test has been properly applied. So Mr Van Dijk's fear is not being fulfilled, because we are going to replace that discretionary test with a harrowing test. And even better: that happens earlier in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u229	I'll help you hope so. It would be very nice if there were actually only improvements to the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u230	That is not entirely the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u231	I asked Mr Azmani the same question. He said: we're really going to limit that heinous test to the first stage of the procedure, and then it's just gonna have to end. I hear from others: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What's the deal now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u232	I'll fall back on the letter. It states that the harrowing test is maintained and that a claim to it is possible until the appeal is brought. That's just what the letter says. You can read it in there. So I don't understand where the confusion is coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u233	Rounding up. If this description of Mr Voordewind is correct, the discretionary power will actually be improved. It is taken into account from start to finish, and not abolished at all, but put in a different place at most. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u234	It is replaced by a harrowing test, which is applied and then goes all the way with the first asylum application up to and including the appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u235	Still very specific: is this distress test only for the first asylum application or also for a renewed asylum application, for example because of medical conditions or changes in the country of origin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u236	Questions are all asked on which the answers are very explicit in the letter. It says in the letter that the distress test will take place during the first asylum procedure up to and including appeal. If there are situations after that, for example, that the situation in the country of origin has changed because there has been another war, or that there are other changed facts, then it is up to the asylum lawyer and the person who is still making a repeat application because there are new facts. The same applies to converts and lht'ers. Those repeated requests for new facts, of course, remain commonplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u237	But can you also appeal to harrowingness?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u238	If there are new facts, a repeat application may be made. The harrowingness is precisely what we are trying to find out in the current first application in the asylum procedure, and that runs to the appeal. I can reassure Mrs Kuik that sometimes this procedure goes on for three years. Although it may not be present at the beginning of the procedure, you can still claim it up to and including an appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u239	Contrary to Mrs Van Toorenburg, therefore, Mr Voordewind says that this painfulness test only applies in the first application to appeal and not in the second procedure and not when new facts arise, for example when someone finally says: I didn't mention it in my first application but I'm running into my sexuality or I've been converted anyway. It is not entirely possible to lay down procedures, but it is no longer possible to call for distress. That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u240	If new facts arise, for example if a conversion has taken place in the Netherlands that has not yet been taken into account in the first application, then a repeated application can be made on the basis of new facts. Of course that will be tested again. If that's rejected, you can appeal. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u241	I understand that, but you will no longer be able to appeal to the harrowingness, because that is only the case at first instance. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u242	As stated in the letter, the harrowing test applies to the first procedure up to and including the appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u243	The confusion arises because it seems to be about the details of an appointment, but it is precisely something that Mr Azmani has just mentioned, saying: the VVD actually wants to get rid of discretion, I was hoarded away a few months ago but now I have brought it in. That is why, I think, many people in this Chamber are asking about what exactly has been agreed. Isn't it just that this is something where the VVD scored a point in the negotiations? They want to get rid of that discretion. That didn't work out, so it's called different now, but what they did bring in is that it only applies during the first application. It's no shame to probably have to make a concession to the VVD, but just say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u244	Mr Van Ojik also attended the debate we had a few months ago when Mr Azmani tabled a motion to abolish discretionary power. Then the other three coalition parties took a serious look at that and came up with an alternative to see if we could not allow that harrowing test to be taken into account more closely in the procedure. Well, that motion by Mr Van Toorenburg is now reflected in the letter and is a translation of it. That's what we found each other in. The VVD may have started the discussion and that is what the rest of the parties ultimately made this package, namely that this distress test is taken into account in the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u245	What has then been brought in is that it only applies to the first asylum application and the procedure that goes with it and then no longer applies. That's a fact, isn't it? If you make a renewed application and your situation has become poignant, for example because you get rooted here or because you get sick, then you can no longer call on that director of the IND to become a poignant case. That's the concession made to the VVD, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u246	I have now answered these questions three times, including those of Mrs Kuik. If new facts arise after the first application, a repeated application may be made. The harrowingness is dealt with during the period of the first application up to and including the appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u247	Proceed, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u248	I've had the cup of harrowingness with that. I will ask the Secretary of State what body he is thinking of in order to seek advice. Any ideas on that yet? If not, could he inform the Court of Justice about this when drawing up these plans, so that we know how this will be implemented? Then there's the resettlement. I'll admit that just like my colleague from D66. We negotiated during the formation. At that time, the Christian Union and D66 groups were committed to broadening and relaxing, or regulating the existing cases. That didn't happen back then. Instead, we were given the extension of the resettlement programme, which concerns those 250 people. I was therefore not surprised that, when we renegotiated this matter, it was once again on the table that this arrangement would go off again if we now move on to a relaxation, a new arrangement, a re-evaluation of child welfare matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u249	I see you looking at Mr. Van Ojik, but I still want you to get back to your story. Mr. Van Ojik, you'll have an opportunity to interrupt. The same goes for you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u250	Then we are talking about UNHCR resettlement quotas. Colleagues also know that in addition to resettlement, we also have the relocation. So it's not like that was the image, I'd like to correct it, so that then much less is going to be done. Of course, we remain involved in European commitments in terms of resettlement and relocation. Finally. The Christian Union will support the government's intention to consider in the spring note how to achieve a more stable funding system for the IND in order to make these peaks of the IND more effective. All things considered, the Christian Union is pleased and satisfied with the new package of measures now in hand, especially for those rooted children, but also for those families who still have to go through a procedure. I wish the Secretary of State all the wisdom in drawing up these plans. I look forward to it. I would also like to thank the colleagues from the coalition parties CDA, D66 and VVD for the constructive negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u251	You have a lonely fan. He's all the way in the back. Mr. Azarkan clapping for you. Mr Van Ojik has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u252	It is good that Mr Voordewind is giving his opinion on the resettlement agreement. He says he actually regrets it, and that doesn't surprise me. Mr Azmani just said that we had to, because that is good for the support for asylum policy. Does Mr Voordewind also see that it is perhaps undesirable, but that it might be good for the support? That seemed nonsense to me, but I wonder what Mr Voordewind thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u253	On the contrary, we have always advocated the re-establishment of the most vulnerable. It's not like everyone comes to the Netherlands afterwards. No, the UNHCR selects very strictly. It can take up to two years. These are the most vulnerable, who have been in refugee camps in Lebanon, Jordan and so on for years. Of course, we are also in favour of receiving care in the region, but the Netherlands must also play its part in very distressing situations in the region. If we are going to have a re-evaluation and a re-evaluation of the situation, that means that those children may be able to stay here at 600, 700. We have said that these children are so long and so rooted that we prefer to keep them here. That's why we told the VVD and the other parties "then only off the 250," but with pain in the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u254	Let me get this straight. Did Mr Voordewind say that he had already said in the initial coalition negotiations of Rutte III 'we would like to extend the children's pardon', but the other parties will have said in particular the VVD 'we do not want to' and that you said 'then I want more resettlement'? That went to 750. And that you have now said, last week, 'I still want to extend the children's pardon', and that the VVD has said 'but then we have to return the resettlement'? So there's actually been a trade back that had once been exchanged?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u255	What we talked about at the time was the children's pardon and a broader package of migration. Yeah, part of it's come back on the table. Then I didn't find it very surprising that then one party says "then you didn't get the relaxation, but the resolution and now we turn it around." I did not find that surprising; I have also shown understanding. I also said: if you think of a construction with the four of us, then it is giving and taking, but again, also here with pain in the heart. Because of course I would have preferred everything, but realistic enough, we know that it is giving and taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u256	As a spectator, I find it rather painful to see this exchange of people and children. Anyway... I have one final question about that committee. Mr Voordewind said: what body is this committee, this independent committee that is going to give advice to people? I've heard reports in the media that they're going to be psychologists, experts, etc. Haven't they agreed on who's gonna be responsible for this commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u257	No. No concrete agreements have been reached on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u258	Thank you. You yourself said "last question," so I'll hold you to that. Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u259	Mr. Chairman. During Mr Van Ojik's contribution, he asked a simple question. And then we saw Mr Azmani of the VVD nodding in agreement and affirmative. At the same time, it was Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union who came forward and was shaking 'no'. Something similar we saw in the views, or should I say: the explanation, of the CDA and D66. This is characteristic of the result of this exchange of what once was a clear passage in the now yellowed coalition agreement. Who's right, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Is there even an agreement? It doesn't look like it at all. Therefore, give clarity to the concerned people at home, especially since this issue has so far been discussed mainly in backrooms. I will not hide it either, it deeply disturbs 50PLUS that the opposition is not involved at all. Until last night, only the coalition parties negotiated, and that's how you don't create support. Half of your room, Madam President, was off-limits. It has to do with a brief note from the Secretary of State and therefore there remains a great deal of uncertainty. And yet the voter wants to know on 20 March which party he can count on. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to explain exactly what has been agreed and what has not been agreed. That has not been clear at all so far. What seems clear is that the three coalition parties who wanted to arrange the children's pardon differently have now cashed in their wishes. They know what they're getting, but does the VVD know that too? What guarantee does the VVD have that the pardon will really be in the past? History teaches us that promises are often not worth a bit in the future. What guarantee is there that the policy of stretching, stretching and stretching will finally stop? When's that gonna happen? And how long will the process run from now on? There's gonna be more money for the IND, so I'm expecting a substantial discount. All questions that deserve a clear answer. Can I count on that? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u260	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. ... The four minutes are up!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u261	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u262	What does Madam President say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u263	Proceed, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u264	No, I want to know what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u265	That those five minutes are actually over. No, that was... Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u266	But I've got a limp, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u267	Madam Speaker, I'll be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u268	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u269	This debate and all the debates we have had in this house on the asylum issue have been completely detached from reality. Today we have listened to the opinions, either generously or greedyly or bossyly, but reality is completely lost out of sight. That has always been the tactic, and that has been done under the direction of the VVD. This Secretary of State said, when the issue of Armenian children arose, that the final settlement would remain, because 'we are in favour of rapid asylum procedures'............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... "the reduction in the accumulation of applications" • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • "and the rapid return of non-justified You can say that. The excuse has always been: let this pardon just do its job for a moment; then it will put itself out of operation, because we are so determined to prevent accumulation and to act quickly with the procedures that the pardon disappears by itself. The excuse has a very nice history, by the way, of Secretary of State Teeven, a letter from 2012 at the introduction of the pardon. At that time, too, it was intended to prevent the scheme from being temporary because the VVD would stand for a proper asylum policy and a policy of expulsion linked to it. Just a quote from the Secretary of State's VVD fairytale back then. "There will be maximum use of return if there is no right to stay. I expect that in future hardly any more situations will arise from long-term foreigners residing in the Netherlands and their children without a right of residence." It's really there. So the excuse has always been put in the scaffolding with chronic road-watching methods and, on the contrary, it promotes a stacking of procedures. Whether you call it pardon or any arrangement, as it is now being re-launched, it leads to the accumulation of procedures and the bargaining within those procedures. The excuse, to call it still so, hangs like a sausage for the processioned, because they know: the longer you go through with it, the more children, yes, carrots, the more stitched there is. Ergo, the voter has been taken by the nose, at least those voters who have recognized themselves in this VVD propaganda. The lure of the pardon has led to a persistent stream of unbonafide claims; the lie reigns, you can say. And constantly stretching undermines legal certainty and equality of law and encourages people no longer to accept yet another rejection. From 1 February 2013 to mid-2016, only 80 people whose application had been proved to have ended left the Netherlands, 80! Excuse me, I'll just call it that. I'm sorry. Political opportunism promotes chicanisation. Can that be said of a system of grace so delicate? I think so. Of course it's nice that you have human thoughts about fellow man and compassion for a child's soul comes in handy, I would think. But let's take a little perspective here. How many children around the world are not going to emigrate to another country with their parents and end up in a situation where they haven't known and known anyone? And there's a lot of hypocrisy in it. We keep talking about being rooted. Now, every child's pardon brings a procession of residence permits for family reunification. Then come from some of the people who have long been rooted elsewhere, and they must now develop here. No one cares how the uprooting of those people from the country they come from has happened. Apparently they still assume that it is best to do it in the Netherlands and that we are such a cool country that it is a piece of cake for everyone to adapt here. The carrots are also used very selectively. Now what? Now we have... Don't call it a pardon, because what is it? It's a note from the Secretary of State. After six years we now have the third variant on the pardon and that is the vanishing act. Six years after Bitches, the vanishing act is now completely gone. I'll pay you off with a general, if you'll excuse me, because that's what you call it. I see Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u270	I think you were in the middle of a rounding. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u271	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u272	Then I'd do it first. I shall now give the floor to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u273	That's good. It has been done according to the classic methods. The pardon is gone, strictly speaking. The VVD-chooser, not too smart, might think: oh, we will get fewer asylum seekers. No, there's a lot more coming. The first entrance has already been made. It's being paid off with a general's pardon. Of all the things that are on the shelf, 90% are reportedly being honored. What is a legal inequality is that with regard to people who have also been in procedures, who have heard from the state that they are unchanceable and who have only chosen eggs for their money. They must now see every once in a while that weaker things, let me say, are honored with a stay. That's legal inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u274	Thank you. Mr. Azarkan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Hiddema say something about compassion with children. My question is how the compassion of the Forum for Democracy fits in with the harrowing cases we all know here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u276	Yeah, that's something. I have sometimes understood that the parents here pile up endless procedures and therefore absolutely do not want to prepare their children for the possibility that they have to go elsewhere or have to go back to a country. No, they don't, and sometimes it gets so out of hand that these kids think they're the crown jewel of the whole procedure. It's up to them if their parents can stay here. It seems that experts also warn that you can't actually do that to a child. I have already told you that this, however it may be, is a delicate point, the children's pardon. It sounds like music to the ears. I also think that you are becoming a bit personal that appreciation for the fellow man is a very great good and compassion for the child soul certainly, but you must always treat equal cases equally. And now some children have left who have to recognize afterwards, through their family, that they didn't really deserve it and they think: if only we'd stuck around. And that's exactly what this umpteenth solace, let's just call it "excuse me," will bring about. Immediately a general pardon, nothing really changes and the discretionary power is de facto extended to the end, until the plane staircase you can come up with new requests. So through this course of things, because of what's happening here today, a lot of people will have a very sucking thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u277	It is an exceptionally long answer. I conclude that compassion with children for the Forum for Democracy means that parents have the responsibility, that nothing changes and that it is unfair for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u278	Well, I don't know. I don't know the individual cases. Sometimes you hear something, but it doesn't come to you. But it is true that the procedure as it is now under way is judged by judges. In these cases, and if there are poignant moments within such a family, there is certainly an asylum authority, the judge, an IND officer or anyone else who is getting wind of it. I do not want cases in this country to be so poignant that there is even a medical risk to the person concerned, while they do not qualify for a very careful judicial judgment. That's not what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u279	Then how does the Forum for Democracy intend to do it? Let's pretend Mr. Hiddema himself is the Secretary of State in the Cabinet. Mr Hiddema is faced with the question of a few hundred children falling apart. In some children, the State has gone through the process, with other children the parents have stretched it. There's nothing the kids can do about that. So what is Mr Hiddema's solution to this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u280	The solution is to discourage the stay here, including the stay in illegality. I told you that from 2013 to 2016, in cases like this, only 80 people left the country. One obviously chooses to stay here, hoping for better times, if I may call it that. That should discourage you, Mr. Azarkan and Madame Chairman. And you can do that at the front door, but you're gonna need elections for that. And the 20th of March could be the first start. Then one can be ashamed of the VVD, because the VVD is very much responsible for the sense of justice of the people who do not want to deal with that sense of justice. They're thinking, "I can sit here and it's gonna be okay in the end." This is at the expense of a good state system, legal certainty and equality of law. How do you want to prevent that? By shortening asylum procedures, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u281	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u282	Mr President, this really is not an answer to my question. We all want shorter procedures. We all want transparency for the people involved. We all want a fair, just asylum policy where we can take what we can. A choice has now been made by the four coalition parties to resolve it with a children's pardon in this way. I ask Mr Hiddema very simply: is he happy with that? How did he want to solve it himself? He points to other things every time. Are you happy about this? Or are you saying this shouldn't have happened? You're saying I'm gonna take them all out of the country? Is that compassion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u283	A general pardon or a general eviction is exactly what I don't want. I don't want those two. I want the individual case to be looked at in a proper and constitutional manner, in the context of current case law, and not by way of derogation from other similar people, their interests and their sense of justice. I want justice done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u284	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u285	I shall suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m. After that, we start with the arrangement of work. Does that give the Secretary of State enough time to prepare the answers? I can see from him that that is the case.
