ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u1	I have received written answers from the Secretary of State for Finance to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u2	We started two and a half hours later than at some point on a schedule. We will have to make up for that time, and that task rests on your shoulders. No, don't make it my problem! A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State. I understand that he received 84 questions yesterday; I myself did not fully count. He has already answered five of them via your e-mail, but then there are a few left. I'm sure he can do staccato. With your permission, we will limit the number of interruptions. During the term of the Secretary of State, you can say something twelve times. You can make cubes of that yourself; interruptions in half or in threes, as long as it comes to twelve. You're a financial spokesman, so you're very good with numbers. So that's all gonna be fine. I'm just gonna take a look at the calendar. I wonder if we can finish this before midnight or that the calendar will be changed later. At least we're gonna try. I hope that we can make it short and pointy. I'm also gonna suspend somewhere for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u3	Then let's get started. I call the Secretary of State. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should also like to thank Members for all the questions they have asked. Once again, I am grateful to Members for their willingness to deal once again with such a large package of fiscal legislation this year. The package is even bigger than we might have expected at the beginning of the year. Much, as I say for the listeners at home, we have already exchanged almost 2,000 questions through legislative referrals. But fortunately there were some interesting topics left. That was discussed yesterday, and I will answer the questions on this today. Of course, the package again contains the five pillars of policy, as we have discussed it with each other over the last two years. I did try to make it smaller this time. So I made a few small cubes, which I will give to the President in a moment, and I tried to cluster the questions of the Chamber in them, so that we can go through them a little bit at a pace. All this is without prejudice to the fact that yesterday the question was raised: isn't it all very much? I really agree with everyone in the Chamber that we, at least I on my side but perhaps also a little bit of the Chamber, should try to spread that legislation better next year. That means, for example, with the Tax Collection Act, which comes to you as soon as possible after the turn of the year, in the first quarter, we can deal with as many of the smaller things as possible from the legislative proposals, so that not everything comes at once. That's what I wanted to say in advance, Mr. Chairman. Since I can imagine that there are questions about that, I would also like to say a few words in advance about the following; during an arrangement of work I also received a question for a letter about it. It is about a letter I, like you, received this morning from a former employee of the Tax Administration, in which he states that a lot of things did not go well as far as he was concerned. I wrote a very short note. You may say: that is very short. But I just read the letter a few hours ago. There are a number of solid theories about things that go wrong. I really want to look into this. I think it's important what I can find out about it and what I can prove. In short, I want to be able to put the facts to the story. I think that's a huge help in the discussion with the Chamber. For example, some of these points could well be taken into account in, for example, the Donner Committee's investigations or the ADR that are to be carried out. Only, I don't know until after I've examined what I read in that letter, because that also wants to qualify. That's why this was a bit of a short note. I couldn't go into it much longer. But be aware that we are working with man and power to get the facts straight. I thought it would be good to say that at least at the beginning, before I start the Tax Plan. I recorded the following blocks; maybe that's useful to take. Block 1 will consist of the burden and the lower burden on labour. A number of questions have been asked about this, not so much. Then there is a somewhat thicker package with questions about the greening measures and the measures we have taken on the tax side for the Climate Agreement. Then, as a third block, the approach to tax avoidance and evasion. There is the withholding tax and there is a bit of a locational climate, but most of it is about tackling avoidance and evasion. And then I have a fourth block, with other points. There are, for example, subjects that were small and technical or which may not be covered by the Tax Plan, but which have been questioned. I am thinking, for example, of the questions about box 3. This issue is not part of the legislative package; perhaps it is good for the listeners to know. There are also a few questions in this block about the surcharges. If the President agrees, I would simply like to start with the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u5	Just as informative: will the Secretary of State, in his first term, also address all the amendments that have been tabled? Because of course this is legislation, so we look very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u6	That's a good question. It is also a question that we have pinged back and forth with the team a few times this morning. I think it would be good if I could say something about the amendments which have been the subject of a substantive discussion in the Chamber. But I did not intend to comment formally on all the amendments. Because I know that some of the amendments are still in motion. But I'll say something about it. I hope that will help the House in the second part of the debate. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the first block, the picture of the burden and the low burden on labour. As we all know, the economy is still running very well at the moment. Employment is growing. It was part of the package I am responsible for that we felt that the Dutch should feel that in their wallet. That is one of the reasons why we said at the beginning of this cabinet period that the burden on labour had to be reduced. This has also become one of the priorities of my own fiscal policy agenda. In the Millions Note and in the 2019 Tax Plan, we have already taken quite a few steps, but in this tax plan we are taking a number of steps. In fact, last August we decided to take a number of additional steps in relation to the coalition agreement. Examples of this are the acceleration of the introduction of the dual-disk system and the measures taken in the context of the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. All of this with the aim that workers and middle-incomes, in particular, can benefit most from this reduction. Mr Alkaya asked whether there was still a tax reduction for low incomes, as VAT and energy prices have increased. In itself, it is very good and also important that Mr Alkaya should be concerned about the financial position of low incomes. I understand that, too. But it is good to know that the measures taken by this cabinet are indeed aimed at the lower income groups. For example, the increase in the tax reduction in the energy tax that we have now developed. This is a measure which is very beneficial to this group. Think also of the increase in the general tax rebate and the care allowance. So in the purchasing power plates that we always present, and which I already say are not promises, but calculations of how we think groups will take it off if everything stays the same for them, lower incomes are moving forward. It is therefore not the case that the cabinet has no regard for this group. Mr Nijboer also raised this issue. He said to realize that purchasing power cards aren't all-inclusive. There we find each other quickly, I think, because they are really modelly calculations of groups. Mr Nijboer also felt that the cabinet really does more for the higher incomes than for the lower ones. He'd made another choice in that, so I'm gonna summarize it. Again, in a sense, purchasing power signs are always a limited reflection and not a promise of what is happening. But, of course, they give some idea of what economic conditions and government policy mean for the income levels of all kinds of groups, whether they be single people, people with children or a specific income gap. So they do give something of an insight. But Mr Nijboer is right in saying that the expected purchasing power growth of higher incomes will ultimately be above that of lower incomes. As was pointed out in yesterday's debate, this is, in a sense, a deliberate choice by the cabinet. That has said that it wants people who work to improve on it. We also have measures that are very focused on middle groups, for example. In the lower incomes there are many more people with benefits. You're not helping these people with an employment discount. So Mr Nijboer is right when he says: I do not care much about purchasing power cards, but you do see this in that. High incomes are making more progress in percentage terms than low incomes. This is mainly due to the fact that the measures we are taking have also been directed at the workers. Mr Nijboer immediately attached... That makes sense. He said: if you had asked me, I would have translated him a little more freely, for example, I would have given up a reduction in the tax on profits; you could have done more with that. To this end, of course, we have been working on government policy to tackle tax avoidance on the one hand, which we will come back to later, while at the same time making our country still a country where enterprise, real economic activity, remains attractive. People can make investments, people get jobs and have income. The locational environment, which includes the tax on profits, is indeed a component that we want to make count. However, the cabinet postpones by one year the proposed reduction of the VPB rate in this Tax Plan. The failure to adopt this Tax Plan will therefore lead to a higher corporate tax than in the plan we have. In addition, the rate for 2021 is not reduced to the previously planned 20.5%, but to 21.7%. This brings corporate tax around the European average. That is a place where the cabinet believes that a good balance can be found. There is another element that has been highlighted, including in the consideration for small businesses: the VPB rate for profits below €200,000. That reduction is going to go on. In fact, it's going a little harder than we planned. Instead of going to 16.5%, it will go to 15% in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u7	I believe that the Secretary of State is now responding more clearly than in his written answers. Then he kept saying: it is balanced, a balanced purchasing power picture; it is balanced, because it is balanced. Here it appears that the companies are buying bacon, but also the workers. That's what the Cabinet's paying out for. Does the Secretary of State see that the main problems facing pensioners, tenants and beneficiaries of benefits are in this country, at the moment, to make ends meet and that the workers do not have that problem? Does he recognize that problem? Does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u8	Let me straighten one thing out right now. Mr Nijboer stated in his speech that the companies were mainly the buyers of bacon. But if we look at the pictures, at what we did on the base path and in the coalition agreement, but also at what we're doing now in this Tax Plan, you'll see the changes in the Millions Note last year and now. Then you can see that companies are not making so much progress at all. In fact, the choice was made precisely to impose some of the burdens on businesses, so that we could shape the burden relief for citizens. That's exactly what we did in this Tax Plan. So that companies are buying bacon is a bit of a careless presentation of things, if only because Mr Nijboer also knows that there were a lot of basic measures besides those tariff reductions. That's true. Finally, the second part of his question. There are no whole groups going backwards. In the development of purchasing power, we have taken the groups into account. You can see that all groups are improving at least 1% or more. Indeed, it is true that higher incomes are making more progress in percentage terms than low incomes. I recognize that. This is partly also conscious policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think that the latter is really unfair. I don't understand why the cabinet makes that choice and makes it even more powerful. If the economy goes well, the highest incomes are the best, the employment rate is the highest and wages are already rising stronger. By reducing the top rate so sharply, in one year time, and by increasing the first rate by 0.7 percentage points, you make those differences even greater. I really don't understand that, not even from a D66 executive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u10	You may not understand that. I understand. Once again, there have been principles in the way in which we put the burden of proof, namely that everyone had to make progress. But there was special attention for workers and middle incomes. That's what you see coming back in those pictures. I understand very well that Mr Nijboer had made other choices. I only think that what we have proposed here will ultimately lead to a balanced package. However, I would like to point out that if you do not take care of business at all and do not take care of it at all, it will ultimately be at the expense of people's jobs and income. So we have done this before in debates, and I often do not think that it is entirely right, because there is a common interest of economic growth for both citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr Nijboer and I are already trying to get an answer to the question of what is the basis for this deliberate political choice, as the Secretary of State indicates. What's the basis? Why is it wise, with the exception of those middle groups, to allow the highest incomes, the highest incomes, to improve them in purchasing power and to make the lowest incomes far less advanced? What is the economic justification for this? Why is that wise policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u12	If you present a picture of a burden, you have some kind of basic path and you're going to take action on it. We do that every year with the tax plan, just like in the millions note. Then you look at what measures you can do to balance that image. There's just a basic development in that too. It may well be that this highest income group, if you do not take measures, is making more progress than it is now. Of course, Mr Nijboer, for example, might ask you why this top rate is being reduced a year earlier. It's going down to just under 50%. That's a choice we made. That was a promise. We wanted to reduce that now, but it is also true, for example, that a lot of people have a lower rate of deduction. That's what's bothering them. Some tax rebates and other discounts show that people on higher incomes are not enjoying them and those on low incomes enjoy them relatively more. Those are the measures it could be in. Those buttons can be turned. The fact that there is still an independent income development outside these measures is also true. We can't always do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u13	The Secretary of State seems to be very guided by instruments and means. He says: these are the buttons I can turn and this is the result. The outcome is now as it is, namely that the highest income groups, people who earn double or even more, are making much more progress than those who are already struggling. Does he think he can explain that outcome? Does he support that outcome and how does he explain it? Why is it wise for the Netherlands to have those highest income groups, which do not need any extra, so much extra progress in 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u14	I was just trying to explain to Mr Alkaya that you have instruments that allow you to adjust the existing picture a bit, such as the level of income tax and so on. You can do that. We have agreed on this and we are simply implementing it. We think it is important, for example, for workers to make progress. When you look at the distribution of income according to the lowest incomes, you see that there are relatively more people who do not work and that there are relatively more people in the highest income groups who do work. So it's not so weird that this outcome is there. It would have been more surprising, in my opinion, if you had seen, if we were to say that workers should be making progress, that the lowest incomes would be making more progress in percentage terms than the highest incomes. That's a real choice. That's not a random outcome, it's the choice we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u15	Finally, on this point. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, he says it has to do with the fact that people are working or not. But of course there are also the thousands and perhaps millions of Dutch people working at a minimum wage: those working in retail or cleaning and the customer service workers. Is it right that the Secretary of State says here that the people who work, but at a minimum wage, the lowest income groups, should not only improve their purchasing power by 1.3%, but should improve it more and see to it that they do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u16	I don't have this whole distribution of purchasing power with me right now, but the workers, including in the lowest incomes, are making more progress than the people who have benefits. That's exactly what we want. I say that those lowest income groups are making less progress, because those are the mix between, for example, workers and the benefit recipients. So there's a difference. You can see that the workers are actually making a lot of progress. Especially if you compare it to where we were, compared to what we did in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u17	I agree with the Labour Party and the SP. I would never have chosen a reduction in the top rate and an increase in the first disc. I am always hearing from the coalition and the coalition parties: we have done this reduction in the top rate because higher incomes are gradually being burdened with the deductions that can be deducted at a lower rate. Can I expect the Secretary of State to ensure that the highest incomes in the coming years are no longer the group that is making the most progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u18	It's almost impossible to say that now. As you know, we take something out of our minds every year. In fact, we are sometimes accused of not knowing exactly. Now this is not a promise, but if we look through our eye hairs at the measures that we are taking and at the reality that's just what we're all going through, and if we're going through a few instruments, then we think we can bend that reality up or down a little bit. But it is not that we have and manage that reality for a year or more. So we're going to look again next August, so that's how it went with economic growth and employment, what that means and how the income distribution is. If we consider it important at that time to make adjustments, just as we did this year and last year, then we are going to look again for the most balanced distribution of purchasing power. That other parties then make a different political choice, I recognise and understand, but that is not necessarily the choice we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u19	With all the relativization of purchasing power figures, the August decision-making process turns a lot of buttons in order to adjust the distribution of income. If you look at the measures contained in the package that are coming, then the political expectation should be that high incomes will no longer be crafted. They are then expected to advance by the policy on decline or less. This could then benefit the development of middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u20	We are doing our best to serve the middle incomes with the measures we have. This can be seen, for example, in the discounts: the labour discount but also the tax rebates. We did that special build-up for that. That's specifically focused on middle income. We continue to pursue this policy, but I do not already know for the next four years what is the development of the incomes of the middle group or the low group. However, every year we have the opportunity to adjust it a little. We cannot give everyone a positive purchasing power picture in a time of recession. We will never be able to do that, but we can turn some buttons, for example on the income tax level, to make that distribution more reasonable. At the same time, as has already been said in another part of the debate, the introduction of all these buttons to try to give each group just that appropriate purchasing power image makes it increasingly complicated every year. A number of comments have been made in part one of the debate. Maybe it was you who asked: Suppose I get $100, can you tell me now what that net means to me? Then you will see that the outcome for each group, for each individual situation, will be different. These purchasing power cards always have the best intentions, in the sense that we think they are, but they are never the reality and certainly not per individual family or individual taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u21	I also asked a question about this in the first term. We see that the instruments are slowly but surely becoming blunt, and are becoming far too complicated and complex. I think that income policy should be included on the agenda, because we see for a long time that the differences are different. I think it is a political task, of course, to have something to do with the distribution of primary income, but certainly also with the ability of the government to adjust that this theme comes back to the explorations, so that we can make the distribution of income more equitable again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u22	I totally agree with my near-name partner. When you look at the capital position or income position, you see how difficult and complicated it is with the current instruments to do so. I'm gonna tell you about that later. That is why we asked the study group to help us a little. But then we'll probably have to make more choices than just adjust tariffs. Then we will have to really make different choices, so I agree with the latter. Then I'll go to the second block. This is about greening and climate action. There will be several topics, but I'll just walk by them. Let me begin with the most general question. It came from Mr. Van Raan. In fact, he said: I do not think that politics has weighed climate change well; it is as if it is not felt. I can say a great deal about that, but above all one thing, namely that I do not agree with it. I greatly appreciate the ambition to do things as quickly as possible, even when it comes to climate solutions. Really. It's just, it's not like there's no sense of urgency. In fact, the Climate Agreement was concluded a few months ago after long negotiations. Hopefully, the fact that we did that will make a difference, so that the Netherlands is at the forefront. In the Netherlands, however, the Tax Plan is the first bill that has also tried to make butter on the fish. So we've taken a lot of action at all these tables, whether it's the built environment, the electricity, the industry. There is another proposal for a CO2 law, which is not yet in the Chamber, but also applies here: care is a little bit above haste. But a lot of things we've already done and they're coming back here now. If Mr Van Raan says that he would have liked more, I believe he would have. I'm sure he's right about that, too. He also asked me, for example, whether we are going to achieve those percentages and whether we should not do so again. That's not just my policy area. I am dealing here with a number of measures, but the overall combination of measures we have taken in the Climate Agreement will be discussed extensively in the Chamber in December. In any case, I will not fail to say to my colleague that you also drew attention to this during the Tax Plan. I think that's very good, too. So you will understand that I do not entirely agree with your statement that there was no urgency. Mr Van Raan also asked me for a brief reflection on the endless growth and emission reduction. He said they can never go together. I could give you a long, academic answer to that. There is a kind of growth that is possible, and you do take into account emission reductions. But if the future economy is still too similar to the current economy, of course Mr Van Raan has a point. As long as economic growth is accompanied by emissions, emission reduction is not possible. It is precisely up to us to take as many measures as possible to ensure that growth and emission reductions go as well as possible. But also in this respect, the real expert in this area is, of course, with the Ministry of EZK. He too will have to defend his policy on this point. Again, I very much believe that the economic transition to a new kind of economy offers opportunities for the Netherlands as well. I even believe that, if we are the first to have knowledge of a number of technologies around loading posts and other things, that knowledge can also serve as a new raw material for an energy transition. So I really hope that our thinking and Mr Van Raan's work will go further in that direction. He also asked if I agreed with him that at least this way we will never be able to meet the requirements of Urgendavonnis. I have already given more detailed answers to written questions from GroenLinks on this issue. Once again, of course, I would like to refer you to the debate that is about to take place on this subject. At least the objective, including the Urganda target, is clear. We will not leave much behind to try to achieve that goal, of course under the conditions we have laid down: effective, reasonable and so on. However, for this I prefer to refer to those who have the most knowledge of it, and who work at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. As a follow-up to this, Mr Snels asked me how I look at the fact that we are not going to make the 49%, as was recently shown in the PBL's accounts. That was in the new billing on 1 November, the so-called climate and energy exploration. It says what we know since we concluded the Climate Agreement. That gives you a new basic path. And if you want to give that basic path to the measures we've taken, you're just under 49%. That's not our ambition. Our ambition is to achieve at least 49% and preferably a little more. As a cabinet, we will have to do our best to ensure that we achieve that goal. If additional measures are needed, then we will also take them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u23	I understand we can ask 12 questions. I'm not gonna ask them all now, but I'm gonna ask you a few. I would like the Secretary of State to acknowledge that it is not Mr Van Raan who lacks that urgency, but that Mr Van Raan supports a large number of publications and statements by scientists who insist on urgency and who state that there is no urgency. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u24	I think it is very good that we have to acknowledge here that Mr Van Raan is not the only one in the world who says so. He just had a very nice sense about it; he can repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u25	At least that's nice, because otherwise it seems like I'm the only one saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u26	No, definitely not. Definitely not. I didn't mean to put Mr Van Raan here as a loner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u27	Thank you. I wonder if Mr Snel's answer will not change quickly. He says we can feel it, but we're taking small steps now. Isn't that really too little? Doesn't he just want to acknowledge that? Again, we can see that steps are being taken, but it is not nearly enough. It would simply be very nice if this were acknowledged, not because Mr Van Raan thinks it is urgent, but because again 12,000 scientists have published that it is really too little, because another article has just been published in which scientists recognize that they have been far too careful for decades. Well, that'd be great, 'cause then we can talk. Then we can truly acknowledge that steps have been taken, but that it is really too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u28	I don't think what we're doing now is mini-steps. So I do not think there is a lack of urgency, nor do I agree that what we are doing is nothing at all. Mr Van Raan says: I think that more can happen, and there are a lot of other people who think so too. I recognize that right away. I just think that what we agreed in the Climate Agreement is an important objective that we want to achieve. I'm doing my best to at least contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u29	That is a very clear answer. Steps have been taken and this cabinet considers them sufficient at the moment. That's clear. Then the link between growth and CO. The Secretary of State says: I do not rule out the possibility of decoupling in the future. In doing so, he sketches a kind of vision of the future in which it may indeed be possible; who knows. But that's not the point. The point is that this is not in any way the case at the moment. And as long as that is not the case, it would also be nice if, through the Secretary of State, this cabinet would recognise that growth is the problem at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u30	Well, that's a little far for me. I was willing to bow to the ambitions we must have, but I do not agree with the accusation of lack of urgency and that we are doing nothing. I would say: walk around the Netherlands. It's not like everyone thinks we're not doing anything right now when it comes to climate action. I really don't think that's right. At his request that it always be more possible, I say: I understand that he says so. That can indeed, but it must be a bit reasonable. We've really tried to find some kind of middle ground in there that's bearable. We have also tried to convey it very clearly. If, from the cabinet or from the government, we merely order measures to be taken by the Netherlands about what else should be done, then that is not really going to work. We have to do it another way. Mr Van Raan then asks whether I recognise that growth is the problem. I really think that's too short. I admit that if we do not do anything about the way the economy is organised and if we grow indefinitely to the limit, we will not achieve that emission reduction, as he himself said. But I say, what we can do is try to link economic growth to less emissions as best we can. In fact, I think it might be worth it for the Netherlands. If we now become very good at making up and explaining how we can do this, for example, there may be growth for us, but that does not mean that it is at the expense of reducing emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u31	I fully agree with that answer, but that is not the question. Maybe that's going to happen, but the point is that it's not happening in any way at the moment. At the moment of economic growth, there is automatically more emissions. That's what the numbers say. It's like the Secretary of State is denying that. The only thing I ask him is: does he recognise that this is the case at the moment, and that there is still no idea that it is being released in a meaningful way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u32	I thought for a moment that I was put in the camp of climate deniers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u33	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u34	I think that's a little strong. I'm trying to explain... Mr Van Raan and many others present a slightly too gloomy picture of this. I am prepared to acknowledge that if we do not adapt and continue to grow our economy, this will lead to more emissions. We don't want that. Our objective is to achieve that 49% reduction, but our objective is not to stop growing. I think those things can go together. We must do our best to adapt our economy; that is what we call the energy transition. My point was correct: if we can and want to take the lead in the energy transition, it is not so bad for the Netherlands at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u35	I guess we're a little there, huh, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u36	I don't think we're up to 12 yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u37	You've already made your point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u38	Well, I wanted to make three points, and I've made two now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u39	Hurry up!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr President, for the encouragement. "Hurry up!" We always tell the Secretary of State, so that's right. So we do not agree on this, because the Secretary of State, like in the case of the problem of nitrogen, presents an image: we may be going to decouple it sometime, but there are no alternatives to that. Let's leave that for what it is. We're not getting out of there right now. The last question was about Urgenda. The question was very simple: does the Secretary of State agree with the Party for Animals that these goals will not be achieved in this way with what lies ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u41	I think it was put by the Cabinet in all Urgenda discussions. We have to stick to that and within all reasonable means we are doing our best to come up with measures that can help. We will continue to do so as long as we have not achieved these objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr Van Raan had asked another question and I would like to answer that. Maybe that'll lead to his addition to nearly twelve. That question was about the carbon border adjustment. Suppose Europe is going to agree on measures, for example on how to produce steel. When the same steel is produced outside Europe, which involves a lot of emissions and is probably cheaper, you run the risk of using the bad steel first. In fact, you run the risk that the owner of the poor steel factory will win the owner of the good steel factory. That's a well-known theme. In the monetary economy, you have the same thing with money. So you always have to be careful about that. If we want to be forerunners in Europe, it is not so crazy to try to think of something that does something about the import of CO products. The Commission has also made this point. Timmermans, probably together with Von der Leyen, will present a big plan within 100 days that is part of it. We haven't seen this plan yet, but we've heard of it. Together with my colleagues in the Foreign and Economic Affairs Committee, we want to make an active contribution to the elaboration of this proposal. In an earlier Ecofin I used the words 'positively curious' because I do not know exactly what they want. I understand what they are doing, but there are always other elements, such as WTO-like effects. You always have to be careful with every border text in the current political situation of trade wars. But I understand the idea and we would like to participate and lead the way in its elaboration. Then we come to a subject around the cars. This is often a subject on which we may disagree for a long time, I would almost say, but at least change. This time it is an extra complex subject, namely the technical transposition of two measurement systems. We've talked about that several times. I'm going to try again to explain as simple as possible how I think it is and why I think that the earlier promise made by my predecessor and which I keep will be met without that means that a bpm will not increase. So I'm just gonna do it. The CO emissions of a car is the tax base of the bpm. That was and is the starting point. In short, you pay bpm for a car when you buy it. Roughly speaking, we are talking about CO emissions at a rate. The CO emissions are measured on the basis of a European CO test. It's prescribed. There was an old system, the NEDC, and now we're getting a new and also improved system, the WLTP test. Turns out what? In the old system not all emissions were really measured. The new system is a better measuring system and gives a new outcome. This new test should be used in all cars from September 2018. Until 1 July 2020, both systems can be used and on 1 July 2020 we will use the new system. That's when we move from the old to the new system. Turns out what? The CO measured in that new system is on average higher. However, in order to prevent the BPM from rising, we propose to do the following on 1 July 2020. We're going to charge over the high WLTP-CO emissions and that gives us more bpm. At the same time, however, we are reducing the bpm rates to compensate for the average higher CO emissions. So exactly at the time of transposition we say: hey, we are seeing more CO emissions coming; we are going to tax that, but that part that is due to the new system test, we do not want to burden and we correct for that. I would also add that if we had stuck to CO emissions ourselves, the price increase would have been 2 billion bpm. We have said to the industry: perhaps those old CO emissions were not quite okay, but that was a test method you were allowed to use and we are not going to charge you for that. We left two billion from the CO there and left it there. And now there's just the question: we're actually looking at................................................................................................................................................................................................. The question remains: how come? I can see Mrs. Lodders. If you had that same model of every random car in 2018 and you take exactly the same car in 2020, the industry says: there can be no difference. But the point is that in the old system a different CO emission was measured than in the new system. Per individual car it can always be that you have pluses and minuses, but for the average we correct exactly. Mr Stoffer also had a question about this. He asked, "How many cars are going forward and backward now?" We checked that out. By the way, there is no difference between large and small cars. As of 1 July 2020, GDP is expected to fall by 55% of cars and to rise by 45% of cars. How is that difference explained? Why is it falling at some and rising at others? That has to do with the margin of error in the old system. It is all very technical, but I want to explain it, because the misunderstanding persists that we are doing something that is not right. If the error margin of CO was relatively large with your old measurement, you can see that in the new system that error margin is adjusted. There's a bpm change there. For the cars that were already very close to the new system in the old system we see an advantage with the bpm, because they use the average bpm reduction. We have already exchanged this with each other on several occasions. It's a good thing we're doing that. Apparently, there is still uncertainty about it, because I still see people coming forward. It might be wise to finish, because there are other questions on that same point. Then we'll finish the discussion in one go. Mr Stoffer also asked if by the end of 2020 the Chamber could get an overview of, for example, the bpm revenues of a quarter, to see what is happening there. In the Annual Financial Report of the Reich, the Court receives annual tax returns. As of 1 July 2020, the bpm will sometimes rise and sometimes fall, as I just said. In fact, we expect that as a result, of course, behavioral effects will also occur. Some car buyers will say: if that's the new bpm, I'm going to make other choices. So yes, we're going to measure the bpm yield. We're even gonna see what's gonna happen in the fleet so we can give an explanation. But when you see the bpm yield rising, you can't say that it could be due to the conversion of the measuring system. More cars could have been sold, bigger cars could have been sold. It could go either way. People can make choices by buying cars with a less high bpm. In short, even if I were to give you that return, it still deserves a lot of explanation and discussion if you want to measure what happened through the transposition and what didn't. Mrs Lodders said that we have been talking about it for a long time and Mr Omtzigt later asked for it. She's asking if we can get a neutral party to take a look at those calculations. I would like to say something about that. So it seems as if I've been making calculations and making other calculations for the industry and that it remains unclear for so long. We already had a fairly neutral party, namely independent researchers from TNO. Those are the people's better ones really aren't those who specialize in emissions from cars and CO-tests. They have now written three comprehensive research reports on the new WLTP test, in July '18, October '18 and July '19. They've all been sent to the Chamber. The third report is the final report with everything in it. TNO did the research independently. I would like to emphasise that. There were no conclusions or anything else taken from that investigation. Moreover, that is the second line I wanted to remind you of here. This estimate, made by this independent research agency, is also verified and certified by another independent agency. That's what we call the Central Planning Office. That is what the estimate has looked at and dismissed as reasonable and neutral. That is why I have every confidence in the quality of the calculations. They've already been done a few times and been reviewed by the planning agency. So I really don't see any reason to have another research firm look at the same set again. Mr President, I see the impatience. I guess I'll be done with the bpm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u44	I appreciate the speed with which you browse your papers. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u45	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer, of course, but that is the answer I have had a number of times. I'm sorry I'm still getting the same answer. I think I have already had this five times, also in response to a number of written questions. The point I raised yesterday, but also during the legislative consultation, is that there is uncertainty. I have every confidence in TNO and in the CPB, but the sector has also asked a renowned party. There's a lack of clarity. It is mainly about the entire route. I hear what the Secretary of State is saying, but if we can't settle that difference of opinion, this will keep coming back. I do not understand the Secretary of State's stubbornness in this matter. Now let's try to take this away. That doesn't seem very difficult to me, especially when I hear the Secretary of State say his answer so convincingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u46	Two research institutes have looked at this. They're both independent, and they really have the most sense of it. By far, they've accounted for most cars, over 17,000. The sector regrets that. I get that. He was hoping for something else. This was also reflected in previous legislative submissions. He said, "How is that possible? The bpm is going up, isn't it? In the first story we explained that the bpm can also increase for other reasons, for example because more cars are being sold, because those cars are on average getting heavier, because they consume more cars or have more CO emissions. Those are all reasons why the bpm can rise. We've had it. We finished that part, and I don't think we're talking about that anymore. It is not the case that the agency hired by the sector to reinforce its position once again doubts what the RIP is saying. That's not true. There is no ambiguity as to how those calculations were made. No way. That's a misunderstanding. I'd love to keep explaining that sector at the table every time. We've really done that in different ways. They just think that we should have transposed in a different way. But that's not the conversion we did. We're going from one system to another system at one point in time. I said we're gonna do that conversion at that one point in time. We do this budget neutrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u47	I'm actually hearing the same story again. I understand that. It graces the Secretary of State that he's holding on to his line. But during the legislative consultation I pointed out that TNO, the renowned company to which the Secretary of State refers, had no objection to the sector research and even said: well, the method used there is actually quite good. We keep sending and saying: but we're right, we're right. I'm not getting that right either by saying that very often. Sometimes it helps to settle this for a while, so that that discussion is also off the table. I think we are in complete agreement on the starting point. In fact, the previous Secretary of State and this Secretary of State have said that the transposition should be budgetaryly neutral. So, for God's sake, let's take that difference of opinion off the table so that we can settle that discussion and focus on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u48	The Secretary of State said yes. Good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yeah, I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u50	Perfect. Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u51	The Secretary of State says 55% is improving. At least, "onward" in the sense that the bpm becomes lower and that it becomes more advantageous. For 45%, the bpm will increase because emissions are higher than in the case of conversion. But I also understand that there is a difference between what is being looked at in one report, namely the number of cars and the types, and what is being looked at in the other report. I assume that 55% and 45% are part of the numbers that TNO has looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u52	The only research that could make that comparison was TNO's complete investigation. That lingers a bit in my explanation, which apparently is flawed. It's not like the KPMG study was a qualitatively poor study, just the mat not what you need to know for sales. TNO said: it's done beautifully; we think it's a nice report. That's right, except it wasn't the research report you needed to calculate that conversion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u53	My question therefore relates to the numbers. The KPMG report presents it as if more cars had been investigated than at TNO. This therefore raises some questions about the percentages mentioned and the absolute clarity that exists in this respect. The question is whether the Secretary of State can make an attempt to allow the higher numbers presented at KPMG on the same test and see if 45% and 55% will come out. I believe that there is no difference of opinion on the objective of ensuring that cars are as clean as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u54	The difference between the two studies is that TNO takes as complete a fleet as possible. That's a lot of cars. I think they've been looking at 17,000 different cars. That KPMG research only looks at a few models, so it does much more limited, and just says: Suppose you had the 2018 car in 2020 and compare it to what it is. We are still trying, in vain, to explain that that is not the equation you need for that conversion. It goes from one measuring system to another measuring system. It may therefore be true that for exactly the same car more bpm will be paid later than was expected, because it had a relative advantage in the old measuring system. I don't even know how many cars KPMG analyzed exactly, but that's a much smaller stick. I would like to ask whether we can take a look at this for the second term, but that, in all honesty, will not add so much to the discussion. KPMG has only looked at a certain number of models, while TNO tried to look at the whole fleet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'll make one last attempt. I indicated the following in my first term. I understand that there is some discussion as to whether a particular type of car was too much favoured in the first mismeasurement and so the correction is much larger than average, which increases the bpm because the deviation is much larger. However, I do think it is hard for many people to understand that cars are becoming more expensive, such as those from 2018 to 2019, while they have not changed in terms of their type or emissions. The measurement system has changed but the car itself has not. And that the bpm increases, is not sufficiently explained to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u56	Suppose all car owners would do the same exegesis, so block a 2018 car, freeze it, and ask again in 2020 what it means. Those cases aren't there, but I'd like to mention this for the academic story. For more than half of them they will think correctly: hey, that's not so bad to me; apparently my bpm is lower than I expected. That's good to say. That's one. Then two. You said earlier that in the old measuring system cars were improving, but in the old measuring system all cars were favoured. Because if we had not adjusted the bpm on the basis of measured CO emissions and the new measurement system had been put in place, the burden increase would have been 2 billion for the car owner. And we already forgot it. So not some, but all cars were favored by the old system. However, some were more favoured by the old system compared to the new system. Depending on whether you were relatively more or less favoured, you now have a plus or a minus in the bpm. So what we do as a conversion is we take the average of all those cars and we convert that. That's the best way to do that in the bpm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u57	This all sounds nice, but it still stays on system level. I have two specific questions. One is about budgetary neutrality. Does the Secretary of State now determine this compared to 2020 or to 2017? Because between those two years, the bpm has risen enormously overall. That's my one question. I'll just ask my second question right after that. It is wonderful that the budget is neutral, so I am just as curious as to what the reference year is, and the percentages that the Secretary of State has just mentioned are right on the whole, but what we are getting is that in particular in the a-segment and the b-segment that is taking place at a huge rate. So that's with the smaller, cheaper cars. I also picked up some concrete examples. I'll name one. I pulled the numbers from an Opel Corsa 1.0 from a dealer today. That's a car that hasn't changed at all over the years and that's just available next year. It will go from €19.204 in 2016 to €20.531 in 2020. So that's €1,327 just to bpm. That's what the common man and the common woman notice when they go to the dealer. I see the Secretary of State shaking no now. I understand we don't agree on this, but this is what the common man notices and what my question is about. After all, it is not about the system. It's about what someone pays when they get to the dealership for that new car. And that's a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u58	Did you buy that Opel Corsa?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u59	Not me, but I'm sure there's a lot of people who do. But if you want to know which car I'm driving, you can come for a round with me sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u60	I really appreciate the example of the Opel Corsa. We will not continue to do the one-to-one coupling with Mr Stoffer. I think there are two elements. The first question is whether budgetary neutrality is in relation to 2017 or 2020. The funny thing about that question is that whatever answer I give, the answer is incorrect. It is not a question of fiscal neutrality in government revenue between 2017, 2018, 2019 or 2020. There is only one time that budgetary neutrality applies, and that is on 1 July 2020, when we are obliged to adopt a new measurement system. So that's just one moment and that's what you're measuring. Mr Stoffer says: but if I don't do anything with the same Opel Corsa I bought two years ago and who has absolutely the same specifications, then you will see that I may have to pay more bpm. Then I have only one conclusion: that is because according to the old measurement the Opel Corsa was given relatively little CO. In addition to the example of the Opel Corsa we have the list that we have published earlier with the ten most sold cars I don't have it at hand now and on that you also see a lot of cars on which less bpm will have to be paid if you could have frozen them in 2018 and went to the dealer now. Because we used an average. I immediately believe that there is an example for which it is negative, but I could also give examples of which the potential buyer says: hey, that's funny, that suits me well. Next, Mr Stoffer says that he has the idea that there is a difference between one A and B segment and the other. That is not what we recognize in the figures. I'm sure there are models that have that. It could even be that the smallest cars were relatively best counted in the wrong measuring system. It could be. What you are afraid of is that there will now be a shift through the new measuring system to the inefficient segment, the C and D segment. That is, I think, the policy question. But that doesn't seem likely to us because the CO price of those larger, more exuberant cars is actually much higher in bpm terms. I'm trying to think with you a little bit of what your fear is. I think this is it. And if this is it, then we don't think it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u61	There is exactly the difference between the Secretary of State and, for example, the BOVAG and the RAI. I get tables from them and in that you see exactly that for the A and B segment cars it is much more on the plus side than on the minus side. I don't think these people are crazy. So there's really the feeling that it's there. It doesn't have to be on the spot now, because it's allowed in the second term, but can the Secretary of State make up his mind where he sees these averages per segment of car? I have the numbers, and I would also like to make them available, that it is really huge in the A and B segments and that it is a lot less in the other segments above, C and so on. So it just ends up with the man and the woman with the small scholarship in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u62	In fact, Mr Stoffer asks whether we can make a cross section of the average adjustments in the segments. I don't think we've done that yet, but I can ask if we can calculate that. Let's do that first. But again, if it turns out that in the measured segments, A and B, it was higher than in the year before, then the explanation is that they were apparently priced too favorably in the old measurement method. I'm gonna see if we can find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u63	I'm glad this is being checked out. As far as I am concerned, it would be very important to check this from 2017 to 2020. It is precisely those multiple transposition moments that cause problems. If we can do that with the A and B segments, we have a good picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u64	We are only talking about one transposition, the last one. That is the transposition in which the neutrality in the transposition has been clearly described by my predecessor and has also been taken over by me. It's not about all the previous transpositions. It's about that last transposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u65	The Secretary of State therefore admits that the previous conversion from NEDC 1 to NEDC 2 has not been budget-neutral?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u66	I've never been asked that question. I don't know. It could be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u67	Then let me ask you this question. I would very much like to have an answer to that in the second term. If it is not budget-neutral, then we certainly have a problem here in relation to previous promises to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u68	At least those earlier promises to the Chamber were not made by me, but perhaps by my predecessor. I'll look into that. I will give the answer in the second period so that we can discuss it further on the basis of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you very much for that, because this is really the heart of the matter. The Secretary of State is also responsible for the promises made by his predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u70	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u71	He knows that. We would very much like to see whether the transition from NEDC 1 to NEDC 2 macro, so not at individual car level...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u72	I'll do my best to see if we can find anything for that. I don't know if we have any. Otherwise, I'll give you this later. What we are discussing in the Tax Plan is about the conversion of NEDC to WLTP. There was budgetary neutrality on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u73	I understand the questions, because it has been said by the predecessor of this Secretary of State that we are converting it budget-neutrally. I want a little balance in this discussion. We had to adjust those things because the measurement method was cheated. Can the Secretary of State confirm that we would have raised 2 billion more bpm if we had just maintained the rates and that this did not happen because the rates have been reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u74	Yeah, I just said that. I can repeat it again. If we had just kept taxing on CO, the Treasury would have paid 2 billion; not now. I shall now move on to the next topic. That's taxing foreign waste. Mr Stoffer and Mr Omtzig asked about this levy. In fact, they were wondering whether the sector had put on the table a decent alternative and whether the cabinet was aware of the financial consequences for waste processors. As I understand, the unified waste processors have sent a letter to the Chamber about this measure. In any case, I know that the Minister for the Environment and Housing has discussed this very hard over the last few days, including with the sector. She has also sent a letter on my behalf to your Chamber about the discussion she had with the sector and about the measures that have been discussed. I believe that the proposal from the sector has been taken seriously. I welcome the fact that the sector has been involved in this matter all the time. That's what I'd like to say. It is true that the original measure was taken in the context of the Urgendavonnis. The cabinet is committed to carrying out that sentence, as I said earlier. However, the time between the consultations and now was too short to determine whether the alternative offered by the sector, including its coverage, could provide sufficient certainty in relation to the measure we had planned. The Minister for the Environment and Housing has indicated that she will continue to talk to the waste sector to look at the future of the waste management system. I say this in response to Mr Stoffer's question. He asked for it more specifically. In addition, Rijkswaterstaat monitors the treatment of all different waste streams in the Netherlands, including import and export flows. In this way, we keep a bit of an eye on the shifts that are going to take place at the currents, even when it comes to foreign waste. Then we also had a number of questions about the hand-to-the-crane principle, as it is so beautifully called. Mr Van Weyenberg asked for that. He also asked whether the decisions on the cap and the addition rate would not lead to anticipation effects and whether we wanted to take this into account. Mr Omtzig asked more specifically about the upper limit we have in the margins. We've got an ingrowth path. There we use a buffer zone of 15,000 cars at the top and bottom. He said, "Wouldn't 10,000 be better?" The hand-to-the-cranesystematiek is constantly carefully examined in the further investigation. I say to Mr Van Weyenberg: yes, of course we are going to include anticipation effects, because these are actually incidental factors. It has to be, because if you announce a measure now, for example, that what you want to buy next year will be much more expensive, you will see that people are often going to buy a lot of it, because it is not so expensive now. For example, you can see this when announcing a higher addition or when entering the cap. That is what is provided for. Mr Omtzig asked about the upper limit. Those 15,000 cars are based on the sensitivity analysis, which is based on the PBL's co- and counterwind scenarios. The impact of different factors has been examined, not just in terms of numbers, but also, for example, the evolution of the battery price and a number of other elements. That's why they hit the 15,000. That seemed reasonable to us. Mr Omtzigt also stated that if the upper limit was exceeded, an adjustment of the add-on rate would automatically follow. I think it would be a good idea to nuance that image right here. There is no question of an automatism. Research is used every year to re-weigh whether there was a structural development. The same applies to the bottom: we will have to do the same also in the event of a failure by market developments, for example. So it's not automatism: if it's one above it, this or that happens with the addition. That's always a reason to look at the instruments. Add-on is a subject we're looking at, but it's not there automatically. In advance, therefore, there is no telling how big the possible adjustment of that addition would be. It is, of course, dependent on the extent of the exceedance and the underlying causes. A more detailed account must therefore show what is needed to get back on the path of integration, because that is what we have agreed in the end. The size is therefore impossible to say in advance. Mr Omtzigt said that it is important for the target group to know what will happen next. That's why we chose the following in the system. In June of year t, the cabinet announced the proposed adjustment for t+1. This is therefore included in the Tax Plan. In this way, consumers and sellers of the products that consumers buy can take into account that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u75	I understand that the waterbed effects are taken out, but then I assume they are taken out on both sides of the year. Because the fact that in January there are sometimes fewer cars sold because in December of the year t more were sold, is just such a waterbed effect. That could be a reasonable way of putting it into practice, by the way. I hear the Secretary of State here now saying it's a mixed palette. So if you get above it, we're not going to automatically adjust taxation, but if you stay just below it but it is structural, then there is also the possibility to adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u76	Every year there's an opportunity to adjust it. In your input, you just said something goes up or down automatically. That's not true, because you want to know what it's coming from and what instruments it's coming from. But indeed, the buffer is both at the top and bottom. If it gets above it, we're gonna see how it gets there. Then we will determine the waterbed effects throughout the year, of course, because otherwise you still have no structural image. If we see that we have structurally deviated from the growth path, at the top or bottom, we need fiscal measures to see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u77	So if you're expecting to stay just within the bandwidth, but expect to shoot through it, even at the bottom, you adjust it. If you come out of that band but expect to get back in automatically, then you don't adjust it. So that's about what we're doing: we're looking at both the occasional and the structural impact, and together we're making an assessment of whether that should lead to fiscal adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u78	In my own words. You want to know the structural development in the market. With that you want to take out all the incidental effects, for example the waterbed effect, I call it an anticipation effect, but it comes down to the same thing by means of a policy announcement. It goes just as you calculate an EMU balance: you have a structural balance and an occasional balance; everything that is incidental, you take it off and then you see the structural picture. On the basis of structural development, based on the image that it is outside the buffer, we need to steer. Then I come to the next point, the ODE and biomass. A number of Members had questions about this. For example, Mrs Lodders asked to monitor the impact of the ODE on affordability and sustainability in specific sectors. I think Mr Bruins had a similar request. Mr Mulder actually suggested further lowering the ODE for households, because he wants to get the promotion of biomass entirely from the SDE. He didn't really have a question about that, but he did have a clear statement. I thought it better to mention this, because this was his point yesterday. The cabinet considers a request for monitoring to be sensible. The Ministry of EZK has already taken a first step in this direction. They will take an SME impact test carried out under the responsibility of Mr Wiebes. The cabinet will have to look further at how this should be shaped. Also for biomass, my colleague is the one who really knows a lot about this. In the whole debate on biomass or not, I did not want to interfere too much today. However, I would like to say that the cabinet still considers biomass necessary in the transition and that there are strict sustainability requirements to ensure that the use of that biomass really leads to CO reduction, because otherwise it will not work. However, for the substantive debate on biomass, I would like to refer everyone to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and, by the way, also to the Minister for the Environment and Living, because it has something to do with it, of course. As you know, the ODE and the SDE are linked together. We collect ODE from everyone and these funds are then spent on SDE and later on on SDE+ and SDE++ expenditures. Mr Omtzig asked whether this would not give the wrong incentives. He actually asked the cabinet to keep the finger on the wrist here. It is true that the ODE change in principle gives an incentive to electrification, to use that beautiful word. So gas is taxed relatively more heavily than electricity. That is also part of the climate agreements. This incentive is also desirable from the Climate Agreement. There is an incentive for, for example, the purchase of solar panels, but not only for this purpose, also for the installation of heat pumps. For plants producing cogeneration plants and thus producing electricity, there is a full tax exemption for the gas input. That's where you're actually trying to get that done. That is why there can also be an incentive to produce more electricity via the wattage. The additional gas input associated with this will therefore remain free from the levy. For the Climate Agreement, it was agreed at the agricultural table that there would be less commitment to watts. My colleague from EZK will certainly keep his finger on the wrist here too. In the monitoring requested by Member Lodders, he will also take into account the effects of the change in the ODE on the sustainability of the sectors and on how the wkk is used. Mr Omtzigt also said: okay, but there is also a... Oh yes, he asked whether specifically the greenhouse horticulture, one of the groups that is severely affected by the increase in the third disc in the ODE, could call on the SDE+ or the SDE++ scheme to compensate. The SDE+ is open to companies in different sectors, including greenhouse horticulture. No guarantee can be given in advance on the results of the distribution of these grants. Contrary to the case of industry, this does not apply to the occupation which greenhouse horticulture can pursue under this scheme. In recent years, greenhouse horticulture has been able to rely on the SDE+ for the sustainability of greenhouses through geothermal energy, the purchase of solar panels and solar thermal energy. I'm way out of my comfort zone right now, but I think it's okay if I tell you. At the moment, the SDE+ is expanding from renewable energy to CO reduction. The options in greenhouse horticulture are also considered, including the use of residual heat and the purchase of LED lighting. I think it is a good thing that we mention that there is attention to this in that scheme. In addition, the Minister of LNV, in consultation with the sector, will consider how additional climate funding for agriculture could benefit greenhouse horticulture by 2020, in particular with a view to its sustainability and electrification. There is also an eye for the companies that have already made this switch. In short, my answer is that I think it's hard to do something specifically for the greenhouse gardeners in those ODE discs. But I found the previous suggestions to monitor and see what we can do with the SDE+ in itself understandable. I also understand that a first consultation on everything I said before has been organised in the short term to give this further hands and feet, so that greenhouse horticulture can also be supported in terms of sustainability. Mr Stoffer also had a question on the same point. Can the increase in the tariff in the third electricity disc be postponed and renewable energy resources from the budget reserve can be used for this purpose? A reserve is being built up from which future expenditure is incurred, but that is not one-on-one. In fact, Mr Stoffer asked: can you not use that, in that temporaryity, to postpone the measure? I recorded that with my colleagues. In the end, they have convinced me that this reserve is really necessary for the policy that has been proclaimed. If you were to take money out of those reserves right now, you'd be missing money for future policy. Moreover, it appears to be an EMU balance-relevant expenditure if you exhaust this budget reserve. If a motion or an amendment were to be tabled for this purpose, this proposal would therefore also have to be covered. We cannot move in time, because all these reserves have already been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u79	With reasonable words, the Secretary of State actually says to my question: we simply don't do that. Let me get this straight. Soon he will have the EMU balance in order, and so on. But those greenhouse growers, many of whom have already done a great deal about sustainability, are going to be bankrupt, or are going to have to fire people, or I don't know what. How does the Secretary of State feel about that now? I can't explain to anyone, and I don't think the Secretary of State can explain why exactly the third disc is going up so much in that table, 177%. That's impossible, isn't it? Those people are gonna go bankrupt. Then we'll be back here in six months, and then we're gonna say some really nasty things to the Secretary of State. My proposal was also: do it in part now; it doesn't have to be completely. I would say, please, let us think together with that sector for the coming year. How does the Secretary of State look at what I'm putting here all around Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u80	I would, of course, do everything in my power to prevent bad things being said to me. Mr Stoffer will understand that. It's not quite like I can't explain why things happen. Of course, there has been a very long and intensive negotiation of this climate agreement at the tables with all the sectors concerned. One of the agreements made is that the ODE should raise more money from the large users in the third and fourth discs, so that we can return some of it as a relief to the citizen. That has been a very conscious choice. It is also true that at the time of that agreement there was already attention for the greenhouse growers, and not only for them. Mr Stoffer also knows the table. There are other sectors, such as large hospitals or perhaps large school communities or universities, which consume so much that they are not in the first two discs of small consumers, but mainly in that third disc. That's true and that choice has been made. The point is this. The moment you want to change that, the cover must come from somewhere. I take it Mr Stoffer is not against that. If you're gonna change a measure like this, you're gonna have to find cover somewhere. I understand the problems that can be very well. What I just said wasn't a bad idea either. I also think that we should keep track of what that means and take that into account in the coming year. Fortunately, a number of policy measures have been taken by other ministries; I have just read them out. It's not like I don't care. I know there are effects. They're not just there for the greenhouse gardeners, they're there somewhere else. In my own tax system, I cannot serve one particular group very much. But I do understand Mr Omtzigt's question and suggestion: could you not consider, for example, whether what could be done in the area of accessibility in these grant schemes? I said that I am not talking about it; again, that is really my colleague from EZK. But I can imagine you'd be consciously involved in that with the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u81	I just really don't get happy about this. I'm very unhappy with it. You can see that it's all made right at system level, just like it was just with the cars. But the gardeners, the greenhouse growers, our entrepreneurs, also the entrepreneurs who fall into that third disc, are instantly paying an enormous amount of extra money. This also applies to academic hospitals, by the way; but if it gets bad before that, something will be repaired. The greenhouse growers just can't have that. So I say put that off for a year now. I believe that this coverage is possible, because if the EMU balance goes down a little, it is not such a disaster; it is also happening in the rest of Europe, especially on the south side. I hear something behind me, Mr. Chairman. He's just gonna have to say that to me in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u82	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u83	That's one. Then there is my second point. If they're broke in a minute, we've filled the reserve very well. But I'm thinking, well, we don't want that either. I really advocate to be sensible, to postpone it for one year for a part, really not quite, do it right with the other, and to also look at the fourth disc. 'Cause of course, it's really weird that nothing happens there. It is said that agreements have been made with large companies and that it is all fixed. But that doesn't do me any good. Then we're gonna make it to those where you think you can make it, but where it really can't, as they say very clearly. I'm really arguing to the Secretary of State to change this. Don't be... I'd almost say "stupid," because it's just gonna go wrong next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u84	I think it's a very good call not to do anything stupid. I couldn't agree more. There was some fuss just there and I had to write with it. Do I understand correctly that Mr Stoffer says: you have to do this and you have to do this at the expense of the balance? Because that is not the way we normally do it. Once again, I can well imagine those other choices made by Mr Stoffer, it is not that I do not understand what he is talking about. I've been explaining for a while now why I get it. But the choice has been made to cover part of the costs of the adjustments needed for our climate objectives, not only for citizens, but also for business. Then it is mostly about the third disk, but also a bit about the fourth disk. In this context, it is good to emphasise that all these tables have been signed for the way we have done it. It included all sectors. Of course, some sectors have also been somewhat annoying. But it is not the case that a few people have taken stupid policy decisions; we have really reached a single agreement with a lot of people at the same time. That's why I'm defending that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u85	What you say about that agreement is true, but those amounts were not yet in it. I'm gonna try one more time. I suggested that we turn that 2.05 cents into 1 cent. I understand the Secretary of State loves that. But does he see room to go back somewhere, maybe not all the way to that 1 cent, but somewhere between that 2.05 cents and that 1 cent? Is he seeing that space or is he really not seeing that space at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u86	The only thing I see is that if you make another choice, if you want a reduction in the increase in the third disc somewhere, that has effects on the financing balance. You should cover it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u87	The PvdA is in favour of greening the tax system and will therefore vote in favour of the greening package. Against the Tax Plan if it does not change in the course of the day, but for the greening package. But you always have to keep an eye on the effects. I've seen these effects for greenhouse horticulture, not necessarily my supporters. I see what is to be paid in an extra month and a half, that there will just be more than a doubling of the energy bill. Some of the companies have gone from gas to electricity because it was more environmentally friendly, but are now getting a higher bill. I wonder if that's not very rude. If that's still reasonable, I'll ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u88	In the end, we consider the package of measures we are taking to be reasonable by definition. I cannot say much else, because that is the proposal we are making here. It's not like I'm deaf to the stories out there. You say that those who take the lead in this sector now seem to be hit harder. But I have just indicated that, of course, I am not the one dealing with these measures. That is also recognised. The tax instruments are, of course, not targeted for specific groups. But I can very well imagine that these matters will be discussed at a time when, for example, the SDE+ is being discussed during a budget debate in the Chamber. Because then you can do something. I just can't say anything about it, because it's not my wallet. So I have no incomprehension for what is being said. I just don't have a solution here. Nor did I try to tell Mr Stoffer that what he wanted is bullshit. Not at all. I'm just saying it can't be that there's no cover. That is actually the position I would like to take towards Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u89	Nor have I argued in favour of making things less sustainable, because I am very much in favour of doing so. But of course you can always look at the phasering, at the time and at what is reasonable. Those people have known this since September. It is the largest cost for companies. Especially if they have already preserved, they may also need fewer investments, which are targeted by the SDE scheme. I think it's on the verge of being reasonable from the government to say that the budget treatment is still coming, we don't know what we're doing, you're going to get the bill in a month and a half and you're going to compete on a global market. The story of the PvdA is really not that the business community is lacking in this cabinet, but we have to look at the effects in practice in law. That's what I'm worried about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u90	The latter is a broader point on which I agree with Mr Nijboer. We have also talked about this before. As a government in general, we must be very careful to adjust rates and define systems over and over again, in short, a lot of instrumentalism. I believe that Mr Nijboer himself had made a comment on this earlier. I agree that we really need to be careful about that. For example, we just had the discussion about what we do with add-ons. I think it's good that you can try to change your policy at the moment when you're working on under- or over-stimulating the policy goal you want to achieve. But you have to be careful that you do so so often that the sector that buys, for example, for a particular kind of car... We are talking about cars now, but the same applies to the example you cite. We have to be careful that we change it so often that there is no more investment security. Investment security is extremely important for the Netherlands as a country of residence, because people need to know where they stand. At the same time, there will always be policies and taxation has a role to play, especially when it comes to greening. You indicated that you yourself, fortunately, are also a great supporter, like me, of incentive effect to see if you can seduce people to the good. We do this, for example, by making gas more expensive and electricity cheaper. We are also trying not to let what business pays to the energy transition in the Netherlands be too little compared to what citizens have to pay. A choice has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u91	Can you get to the third block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u92	Almost, Mr. Chairman. I had a few short questions, at least one from Mr Van Weyenberg. He asked very briefly whether I would like to look with an open mind at the extension of the reduced rate in the energy tax for the charging posts. I can promise him that. There's gonna be an investigation soon. I promise that I will look with an open mind at what comes out of it and what needs to be done with it. I have another question from Mr Van Weyenberg about youngtimers. He asked how I looked at an increase in the age limit, for example from 15 to 20 years. He said to understand that in general it is not a tax incentive for these cars, but he said that in reality it does work out that way. He'd seen people advertise with that. Mr Van Weyenberg is right that an older car generally emits more than a younger car. I said then that this is not meant to stimulate these older cars. Now you have an addition based on the catalogue price of a new car, but if a car is 20, 30, 40 or 80 years old at some point, then that becomes a bit silly. He asked why 15 years was specifically chosen in my opinion, it used to be a number of years younger; we then increased that to 15 years later and whether the border could also be 20 years old. The answer is that this could be done in itself in the same system, but that we have to ensure that it is logical that we stop looking at the catalogue price at some point. I would find abolition more complicated, because we would then be told by the judge that you should not persevere endlessly. That problem doesn't exist when you do something with those years. Another important question was about target transport. We took that discussion from last year. Mrs Lodders, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg spoke explicitly about this and asked whether it was not necessary to consider whether it would be possible for certain parts of the target group to make the switch to electric transport. We have already written a little more about this in connection with the WHO. I'm not saying everyone has to do that now. It is not only people who have to travel in wheelchair cars that are involved in the transport of people. It really is a very broad group. The technical delimitation of these cars is therefore unfortunately impossible. We mainly discussed this last year. The problem seems to focus on the supply of these new vehicles: are they sufficient and can they drive enough, make meters for the work they are used for? Although supply is still relatively limited in this category, I expect it to increase in the coming years. The most important thing, before repeating a number of arguments, is that I contacted my colleague from IenW. We have come to the following. IenW is currently preparing the Environmental List 2020 in the MIA. That is the Environmental Investment Deduction, with which you help to make certain investments fiscally possible. Under the Zero Emission Management Agreement Target groups for 2025, the promotion of electric vehicles can already include taxis, including wheelchair taxi vans, in the preparation of the Environmental List 2020. This makes the purchase of an electric vehicle attractive for this sector, because it can already use this MIA next year. I will also continue to monitor this in the context of Mr Van Weyenberg's motion for a resolution on the supply of very efficient and emission-free vehicles for the transport of care and target groups, because I believe that this remains important. The Cabinet will continue to discuss the impact of the measures with all relevant parties, such as municipalities and providers of healthcare and target groups, so that it remains possible for them to offer such transport at existing prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you. There was widespread concern in the Chamber that, especially at the beginning, if those vans were not there yet, which would be more expensive or perhaps not yet able to deliver the same performance as the vans that are currently being driven would be put in a tighter position in the target transport sector. I welcome the commitment to add them to that MIA list. I really think that can make a difference. Would the Secretary of State like to inform the Chamber if this happens definitively? Could he also see if, for example, after six months or a year, he can give us a sense of whether it really works in the transport sector at that time, as a more concrete interpretation of the motion tabled by the coalition parties and, in my view, supported by the whole Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u94	I would like to say that, because it is important that we monitor it and that indeed the hoped-for increase in supply will take place at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u95	I thank the Secretary of State for this concession, but I still have the problem of longer journeys. What are the taxi companies that want to drive such a van 400 to 500 kilometers a day because, for example, they have to drive back and forth to treatment centres with patients? What kind of vans are available for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr Omtzigt is probably better at home in the model names and specifications of all vans. It's important to me to do it with the sector. This comes all the way back from the fact that we also want taxis to pay to the bpm. They were now exempt. Taxis therefore included, for example, the transport of target groups. Last year it was said that it is so important that it should not indeed have a disadvantage from the bpm increase that the entire taxi industry has received. At that time we said that for a lot of the target transport, for example direct transport to an institution and back, we do not need the vans we are talking about. A lot of dedicated healthcare institutions can drive back and forth and have what they need. The municipalities also pay attention to this. It is precisely the vans that, for example, take people to a diner or disco in the evening, but that can also provide a demand during the day, for example, for wheelchair transport for people who need it. The longer those vans can drive, the more comfortable it is for them. But of course it is not impossible to arrange that in such a way that you take that into account. The sector itself is quite ambitious and I believe it wanted zero emissions by 2025, where the government wants this for the entire fleet by 2030. In any case, they assumed that possibility. Now the only question is whether that offer will come soon enough. Isn't it slower than they thought? I don't know. I said I think it's important to have the monitors. I have just promised that to Mr Van Weyenberg. But I also said that, if it becomes precious for them to buy such a van now, they don't have to do all of that now, but they could do it, so let them include it in that MIA list. But which vans can drive exactly over 180 kilometers if that's your question, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u97	No, and they're going a little further, 'cause they're only allowed 100 now. Usually cars can drive on petrol but also on electricity for longer; you are looking for advantages. In the monitor you promised Mr Van Weyenberg, would you like to address the question of whether there are any bottlenecks in the longer journeys? When transporting wheelchair vans at sports clubs that are engaged nationally, it doesn't help you as much if you have to drive 150 kilometers back and forth. Are there or are there opportunities for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u98	That is what I am happy to say to Mr Omtzig. Then I come to my third block. This is about tackling tax avoidance and evasion. I'll just pass the bill. We have the withholding tax, the ATAD 2 and the DAC6. There were also specific questions about the disclosure of the fine and the earnings stripping measures. Let me start with the withholding tax Act 2021. Mr Omtzigt says that the Netherlands is still far too often in the top two lists of transit countries. He expressed the wish that in future he would prefer to fall outside the top five. I share Mr Omtzigt's wish. With the withholding tax, the multilateral instrument and other measures we take, we expect the Netherlands to be significantly less attractive as a transit country. On Monday, the Central Planning Bureau published an investigation into the expected effects of the withholding tax. In almost all scenarios, the Netherlands falls out of the top five of transit countries. In this model, the Netherlands would even have a fourteenth place. In order to monitor the actual effects of withholding tax, I will continue to inform the Court annually about the financial flows flowing through these special financial institutions through the Netherlands. I'll keep putting that in the picture. I would also like to pay attention to Mr Van Weyenberg's request to see whether we can do something with the three countries that have been mentioned a lot. That's Panama, Hong Kong and Mauritius. These are countries which have a so-called territorial system, which we and many other countries fear will then perhaps be able to develop into some kind of new tax port, despite the fact that their rate is high enough. I asked De Nederlandsche Bank whether we could further design the impact measurement, in short, whether we could split it up, so that we could see it when flows from the Netherlands shift to other parts. Mr Van Raan had a number of questions about this list. He asked why not to opt for the effective rate. Why are the EU countries not on the list? Why hasn't a higher rate been chosen? I believe that Mr Alkaya also had a question about this. Ideally, of course, we would be in line with the rate actually paid. That's what we call the effective rate. It's just that you don't have one effective rate that everyone in the world agrees on how to measure and then you can put it down by country. We've had a long discussion about that. After all, there are a lot of different ways in which you can do that. Are you taking your loss or not? It may vary by sector. There are a lot of reasons. I want to talk to everyone about how we can do it best, and I'm gonna do it, but I don't want to wait for it. That's the point I've been making all along. When we use a nominal rate of 9% for that list, we are sure that all the countries in it are now known as a well. They will then have an effective rate which is also below 9%. They also asked why, for example, you would not use 10%, regardless of where it is not possible under the European law provisions of our Interest and royalty Directive, because there are a lot of countries somewhere between 10% and 15% that are now being used as tax havens. Yeah, why not? Because there are countries that are much lower. In these current measurements you can also see that incredibly much, especially royalty payments, go to very specific countries where the rate is really low. So my system is certainly not perfect, but very applicable and immediately feasible. We also know that we are really targeting all the royalty and interest flows that are now going directly to a tax haven. I also said we're gonna monitor that. But I'm sure that's gonna put more than a dent in a pack of butter. But isn't it possible that they will get to the same thing through other countries? The answer to that is: yes, that is still possible. That is exactly why I also point out that international coordination is necessary and necessary for this type of business in order to ensure that, if we all do so, it becomes increasingly difficult for companies to channel their profits to a low-tax country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u99	I am also very much in agreement with the Secretary of State's method. It is to be applauded that he can start immediately. Does the Secretary of State rule out that that rate of 9% may rise at a later stage, as we have closed those wells already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u100	The question is whether that makes a lot of sense, because the countries we are targeting are not in that group with a statutory rate of between 9% and 15%, but all of them are underneath it. Those are the countries that actually have zero. You're already targeting it. You could say, "Well, what difference does it make?" You're just gonna do it a little higher, aren't you? I don't think that's much use. Moreover, we have agreed within Europe a royalty directive, which in principle does not allow withholding tax to be levied, for example, within the EU, on rates that are higher than the rate we have. That is currently 9% in Europe. That is why we opted for that 9%. Mr Stoffer had a question about Oxfam Novib, which has done research which showed that developing countries lost a lot of tax revenue. He asked if withholding tax could do something about that. We very much agree that tax avoidance is a bad thing, especially if it is not only at the expense of tax revenue in the Netherlands but also in developing countries. With the withholding tax and other measures against tax avoidance, the Netherlands, we hope and think, will no longer be the spider in a web of tax avoidance constructions with such countries. In particular, in relation to developing countries, the Netherlands is prepared to accept higher withholding taxes during the treaty negotiations. That is a policy that we have already developed. It is important to say that it is precisely in that situation that a higher withholding tax is acceptable. In addition, the Netherlands is also committed to strengthening the capacity of, for example, tax administrations in developing countries, through the provision of technical assistance through various bilateral and multilateral programmes. So there is certainly attention to the point that Mr Stoffer raised. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to ATAD 2. Mrs Lodders asked me to reflect on her desire to continue monitoring the impact of the documentation obligation on the administrative burden on SMEs for the next Tax Plan. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt also mentioned this point. That has been an important point. We have already paid attention to this, and I think it is right, because this documentation obligation is not nothing. This was discussed both in the written round and orally during the WHO. I am glad to hear that yesterday in the Chamber there was understanding of the need and consideration to at least introduce some documentation obligation to make it effective. Nevertheless, I know that not all the concerns were taken away. In particular, Mrs Lodders, as well as others, pointed out the need for continued attention to be paid to the impact of administrative burdens on SMEs. That wish was shared and supported not only by me but by Chamberwide. Because it's really important that we keep an eye on that. Moreover, it is certainly often up to the Netherlands in Europe to continue to make this point explicit. That is why I have previously tried to provide as much clarity as possible on how and when this documentation requirement can best be met. In fact, I am saying that it makes sense to follow up on her desire to monitor that. She asked to come back to that at the next Tax Plan. In itself this might be possible, but I am very much afraid that we shall not enter the law until next year, and the declarations will not be made until the following year. So if she is okay with us getting back to that with the Tax Plan 2022, that is the first year that we have that measurement, then I think that would be very useful. I would very much support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you for that commitment. I shall come back to this later in my second term, because I think that the Secretary of State has a point in relation to tax returns. This will probably not be before the end of next year. So I will come back to that and I have heard the Secretary of State. I have another point to make when it comes to ATAD 2. That's pretty technical. If it doesn't work out here, I'll come back to it in a round of written questions if necessary. In my written question, I did consider that the main purpose of ATAD 2 was to prevent double non-taxation. I believe that this is also important for taxpayers. I am looking for clarity about the law that indicates that the scheme does not therefore apply to other matters, but above all is intended to counter that double non-taxation. Perhaps the Secretary of State can confirm that that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u102	At the risk that there is still a reasoning behind this that I do not fully understand: I think what Mrs Lodder is saying is exactly right. At ATAD 2, the big problem is what we call hybrid mismatches. This means that the Netherlands sees an entity, often a résumé, and then says: we do not have that tax duty. That is the only side of non-taxation. This while a lot of money is being drawn towards it, also via for example a Dutch e.g. In many situations, it was also American companies. They then said "we don't have that tax right either," or they postponed it indefinitely. So you saw a lot of profit being raised in an area where we couldn't raise, but where no one else was actually raising. My only doubt is whether, if I say now that it is only about double non-taxation, which seems logical to me, I am not saying for parliamentary history that, for example, where there is a very long delay, it would not belong to it. Unless this answer is sufficient, I therefore propose to put it back for my second term, so that I can almost certainly confirm what I have just said. I'd like to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u103	That sounds good to me anyway. The reason I'm asking you this is the following. If that were not the case, it would be contrary to primary European law. That is the underlying question. But that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u104	Then I am even more sure that my confirmation will be fine in the second term, because I do not think we would want to interfere in that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the offense. Mr Van Weyenberg asks how we are going to ensure that people really find out that an advisor has done things that we do not think are desirable. That's briefly paraphrased what he asked. Of course, we always have to deal with rules on the disclosure of all kinds of data, but it is certainly the case that it will be easier to find these offences. These are posted on the website of the Tax Administration. This will enable people to find out which advisers have been fined for offences in a very easy and above all free way. That's exactly what you want, because that's exactly how you know if a consultant did things that Mr Van Weyenberg and I hadn't done, so to speak. Additional information is also possible for the purposes of informing the public. We can make things like the nature of the offence public on the website of the Tax Administration. With that I also wanted to make a turn to Mrs Leijten. It is not here today, but it has tabled an amendment which has partly taken this approach. That is the amendment that ends at number 8, 35303-8. She also introduced a reporting obligation for the offender. That part was complicated. The other part of the amendment is concerned with extending the scope of the fine to withholding tax. I have said about this part before: I do not know if it is useful, but if it is attached, it is certainly not impossible. Then I come to the DAC6 directive. This is a directive which seeks to enable effective exchange of information between European Member States. Mr Bruins had a bit of a concern. He said, "I'm sure that's gonna be such an expanding database." He doubted whether the Commission could really manage such an expanding information exchange or database. In short, he said: make sure it stays effective in any case, so that people really get something out of it. I really think that what he wants, what he wants, is also at the heart of what we want and why we agreed to the directive. I think it is also really good that information can be obtained on an automatic basis on the basis of the DAC 6 directive. First you had to know, then ask, and then it's gonna take some time. We're all doing it fast now. The data provided in the Netherlands are given to the Commission by the Tax Administration via an existing CCN network. I would like to add that this is a very well-protected network so that it can also be consulted directly by the other Member States. We are less concerned than Mr Bruins about the fact that it is some kind of unbridled database where no one can find the way out, because you're actually getting pretty quick at just the data you need to know if something is happening to a structure that runs through you. We shall continue to put a question to the Commission on this subject once in a while, bearing in mind his comment. Our expectation is that the Commission's management will function effectively and efficiently. Of course, there is another review of the directive and it will all come back. We take the point and it is exactly what we want. On the same point, Mr Van Weyenberg still had some reservations as to whether the DAC 6 guidance board would not become a manual for the handy craftsman. In that guide, I have already tried to explain it a few times, just to illustrate a number of examples of how the guide works. It's just a dynamic story. It's not like once you have some kind of lawfulness, you know you can do it until the end of time. We indicate: this is the intention and that is the guiding principle. It is then really dynamic. You can assure us that we too will be very careful not to give manuals to people who want to use them with wrong intentions. It is precisely because of this dynamic nature that we do not have that, but we believe that in the end you should be able to explain something, not only to taxpayers, but also to intermediaries, to make it clear what is not acceptable. Otherwise, we will always be asked for the meaning. The guide therefore avoids unnecessary reports to the service. These are, in particular, constructions which are not covered by the notification requirement of the directive, but which have to be reported because of the lack of certainty. It's a perk. Then I'll join the main benefit test. I know that an amendment is in preparation for this. Mr Snels just asked if I was going to respond to that. Maybe it's a good thing I'm doing that right now. I will also try to do that very carefully. I had the impression that Mr Snels and the people who know how to prepare them were always very close together. We thought they meant the same thing, but they don't say it. I have here a directing to say it very precisely so that we do not get any misunderstandings about it. In any case, I am grateful to Mr Snels for his perseverance, because that always helps to keep us sharp. Mr Snels pointed out that the content of the main benefit test contained in the explanatory statement was, in his view, somewhat too limited. I agree with him that the explanatory statement does not, in fact, express clearly enough that the requirement of artificiality is not an additional requirement of the main benefit test, because in practice, I believe that the constructions that meet the main benefit test will in most cases have this artificial character in themselves. However, the directive requires that the main benefit test is met once a tax advantage is the main benefit or one of the main expected benefits of a construction. This criterion is literally included in the legislative proposal by means of a reference. It is therefore appropriate to state clearly that the main benefit test can also be met if the construction is not fully or partially artificial. That is exactly what I think I said to Mr Snels, which makes him think 'aha, you see'. As I said, I am grateful to Mr Snels for his input on this point. He asked me to respond to that in advance, and that is what I have done. But apparently not enough, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u106	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State. This is important to legal history. The Secretary of State also read it so precisely, because not only in the explanatory statement, but also in the written set of replies and in the legislative consultation there was some difference of opinion. I believe that even now, with the experts from the Ministry, this has been resolved so far that we have amended the amendment, so that all uncertainty has now been resolved. I thank the Secretary of State for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u107	That would be wonderful. Mr Snels also spoke about a possible notification slip in the directive and suggested the idea of additional reporting obligations for taxpayers. Apart from the question of whether I fully share these concerns, I note that this is a European system and that the solution outlined to make an additional report does not really fit in with that European system. If the reporting obligation could be circumvented, it would have to be addressed at EU level and an appropriate solution would have to be found at EU level. However, I would be happy to return to the content of this report in order to draw the attention of the European Commission to this, so that the European Commission can also take appropriate action if necessary. Mr Snels also had another question. This was all at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u108	Here there remains a difference of assessment as to whether taxpayers will use this law to invent constructions to avoid reporting. But that's a risk assessment. I believe that there is also a difference of opinion as to whether an additional reporting obligation is useful to such a obliged person who is deliberately trying to escape that directive. I am sensitive to the Secretary of State's argument that, if we want to burn this down, we should do so at European level. I will return in the second term to the suggestion made by the Secretary of State that this should be addressed in a European context. Then I'll think about a motion. If we get there, I am prepared to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you for that. I could have said a lot more about this, just on the two points, but even if you agree, you still have to go to Europe. Mr Snels had also asked for a substantive response to the amendment to extend the unlimited non-deductible interest rate in the Earnings Stripping measure to a maximum of three years. I'm sure the President knows exactly what this is about. The answer is that in the implementation of the Earnings Stripping measure, the cabinet initially chose rather explicitly the possibility to extend the non-deductible interest indefinitely. That was also because of the fact that we are going beyond the minimum on other parts of this same measure. That was, like, the strict implementation. Think of that lower SME threshold, no exception for old loans and so on. There is also the fact that other countries do not have it. So, all in all, the cabinet is not in favour of further tightening up this Earnings Stripping measure by setting a maximum time limit to the interest rate that is passed on. Moreover, I would also like to say that the Committee on Taxation for Multinationals, the Ter Haar Committee, has also been asked to look into measures leading to a fundamental broadening of the Earnings Stripping measure. I would therefore not be surprised if the further potential of the measure could, to a certain extent, be part of the committee's agenda, which will give us an opinion on it. Then I'll move on. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u110	I thought Mr Snels wanted to say something. That's why he's at the Interrupt Microphone. Then you'll have to make a sound, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u111	He was waiting for you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u112	You hadn't given me the floor yet, Mr. President. I understand the choice of the cabinet, but just for the sake of logic. There are other countries that set a limit to the number of years that you are allowed to pass on that interest. So there's a certain logic in that. There are other arrangements. Think of the bill the Secretary of State is about to prepare on the liquidation loss scheme. There too, there is a limit to the number of years that it is allowed to do. So there is a logic in the proposal I make in this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u113	You can argue about logic endlessly. It is not that I do not understand at all what Mr Snels means and that I think: what is he talking about? No, we do that a lot. With carry forward or carry back in taxation you also have a accumulated profit or loss. We have said that you do not always have to take that in the same year. The same applies to interest relief. We have deadlines for that. Once again, the choice of the cabinet not to do anything about it had to do with the fact that we already went beyond the minimum implementation in two parts. Especially in view of the fact that a number of countries around us do not have that, we have chosen not to be even stricter. Then I come to my fourth block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u114	I could suspend for dinner right now, but I'd prefer to suspend if you're all set. I do note that in the fourth block there are still nice subjects like box 3 and surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u115	That's right, Mr. Chairman. It's up to you. I'd like to do my best to keep going at a high rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u116	Shall we just do that? Okay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u117	So I'll be at the fourth block and I'll start with the landlord's tax. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Snels asked for an analysis of the increase in the landlord levy and the rising charges for the corporations involved. In the first quarter of next year an evaluation of the landlord's tax will be sent to the House of Representatives. In addition, the Minister for the Environment and Wonen is also investigating the social task in relation to the financial capacity of the landlords in connection with the Ronnes motion. This investigation will also be sent to the Chamber before the summer. I know that several amendments have been tabled. One of them belonged to Mr Nijboer. I'm getting a little ahead of myself. He says: shouldn't you extend that to all regions, so that it doesn't only apply to the named regions or the Randstad or the busy regions? In shaping the reduction in the levy on new buildings, the regions where the problems are most serious and in scale have really been taken into account. A widening to the whole of the Netherlands could mean that the resources available for this could be watered down. So I can imagine an enlargement in itself. At the same time, it is important, and I would like to say this on behalf of the cabinet, to keep the focus on the areas with the greatest problems in this respect is important. I could imagine that you would eventually have some sort of differentiation in it, so that, for example, in the areas with the greatest problems, there is a different concession than in other areas. That is what I would have liked to say with regard to his amendment. I'm almost at building blocks. I had the impression that I had more answers, but I await further drafting of the amendments on this point. I understand he's still working on it. This was what I wanted to say about the landlord tax, but that goes too fast, I can see from the movement in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u118	I have asked some more fundamental questions about the landlord levy, namely whether it is still necessary. It is a measure introduced in the crisis. I'm just asking the Secretary of State now that he's talking about the evaluation that's coming. Does the maintenance of the landlord's tax depend on the evaluation? Is it conceivable that the landlord levy will no longer be available in 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u119	I just said there's gonna be an evaluation. I don't make it, but that's what another ministry does. I have a little bit of it that I'm going to anticipate that evaluation and what it will mean. I don't think that's wise. I really don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u120	Then let me put it this way. We're dealing with a Secretary of State for Finance here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yes, very good. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u122	Is this landlord's tax necessary to put the state budget in order, as was the case in the crisis, when it was introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u123	Yes, the choice of the cabinet is that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u124	That is an interesting wording: the choice of the cabinet is that it is necessary to get the state budget in order. The revenue for this State Secretary of the landlord levy is 1.7 to 1.8 billion. We are dealing with a budget surplus of more than 10 billion. So we can simply conclude that it is not necessary, but the cabinet chooses to call it necessary. Is it therefore a political choice to simply maintain this tax for tenants, for people living in social housing? Is that the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u125	We do change a number of things about the landlord's tax. We'll lower her down. But abolishing the landlord's tax altogether is indeed not the choice that I and the cabinet would make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u126	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u127	In conclusion, indeed, Mr President. Should the cabinet find any support for this antisocial measure, this Chamber is nevertheless recommended. I can only observe that tenants pay €66 per month to this revenue source of the cabinet without any justification. I look forward to the evaluation. In my view, the only outcome could be that this anti-social measure is going to go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u128	I await that evaluation with Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u129	We've been waiting for evaluations and investigations, but the housing shortage is now. That is, of course, the reason why the cabinet is now paying some money to reduce it, but the Secretary of State has also recognised in previous answers that the landlord levy will be on balance next year. Despite the 100 million, they are expected to have to pay 30 million more. Does the Secretary of State really think he can solve the housing problems, especially for affordable social housing, with this budget? Is this gonna be enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u130	I don't know. I don't think so. I cannot imagine that all the problems of the Netherlands have been solved with the measures we are taking. I think what we're doing isn't wrong. There is now an additional 2 billion going to different areas. We're talking about one part of that now. I shall return to the first part of Mr Nijboer's question. We also discussed what happens, on balance, at the bottom of the line, for housing corporations during the legislative consultation. Then you can see a different picture. There are measures that will help them. We also discussed the phase-out of Vpb revenues. If you look at the balance, structurally, you can see that what the cabinet is proposing is not bad for the housing corporations; that is not just me, but that is what the sector itself says. Moreover, we have also talked about this, for example, because of the current low interest rates, it is not the case that the investment capacity of housing corporations is hampered. On balance, that also gives them a lot of room to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u131	It's a little macro figures together. I like to watch the practice anyway. I went to Vestia tenants on Monday. If you look at the Vestia area, which is here in The Hague and in Rotterdam, you will see that housing corporation hangs in the ropes. They have to charge maximum rents and cannot invest, while the housing shortage is immense. Then you can say that at macro level there is enough investment space for housing corporations, but it is a huge popular housing problem. My point is that the measures taken by the cabinet are going in the right direction, because there is extra money, but it is really not enough to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u132	I think Mr Nijboer really does. Here's what I'm trying to say. Of course, the Cabinet considers it extremely important to work on a good housing market and to ensure that we build. If there is anything that has become clear in the past few days, it is how important it is to us. I'd say you should have read the papers. So we are not denying the problem. Mr Nijboer's question is: does the cabinet think that all the problems with this 2 billion extra investment? I cannot, of course, say yes; that would be unreasonable. It is an important step towards a solution. I'm glad we took that step, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u133	The rulers need not worry; I read the newspapers well. But this is what I expect from a government and from a cabinet. As one of the biggest crises in society is that people can't find a home anymore, that they still live with their parents, that they're divorced and they have to go somewhere, and that homelessness is increasing, so that you have huge housing problems, I don't expect a Secretary of State to answer "no, I don't expect it to be solved," but a comprehensive package, in many areas. This must not only be aimed at the Randstad, but also at the other billion, which I have made a point of with the housing budget, but also at shrinkage and viability for the whole of the Netherlands. And it's missing. And then I get the answer: yes, nothing can help anything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'd like to say with Jan Schaefer:... Do something about that and don't talk alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u134	I thought: now comes the real quote! But unfortunately...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u135	No, the PvdA isn't that fast anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u136	No. We were all waiting for that. We have the housing market and the building. And the housing market really can only move forward if we do not just take fiscal measures but actually build them. That message that Mr Nijboer has sent to us has already arrived loud and clear. I just do not think it is right to pretend that nothing is happening in this Tax Plan. We're doing something. The EUR 2 billion was released in August, partly for housing corporations and partly for the sustainability agenda. I think Mr Nijboer wants to hear from me that I also think it should be more, but this is what we have cleared up. It's not everything, but it's a very important step. Mr. Chairman. Now I can move on to the block of building blocks. This is actually about the explorations we are doing in the tax system, where we really want to see if a fundamental review is needed to achieve a number of things. Mr Snels, for example, made a comment on the limits of income policy. Mrs Lodders also had a number of important insights about this. It is also really important that we use these building blocks, because everyone wants taxes to be fairer and easier to understand and simpler to implement and more reasonable in income policy. Everyone then has a slightly different outcome in mind; that is what I am saying. But just those building blocks can help us to have that discussion. So yes, I understand the questions that have been asked well, and I really think that in the letter of the Chamber on the building blocks, which I mentioned earlier, I indicated that a future-proof system should also take into account feasibility, income policy and capital distribution, so all the points that have just been rightly mentioned. Mrs Lodders said: be careful that if you do something by the building blocks, you do not wait with very good measures that you might already want to take; so you have to step forward a little faster. I think that is a fair point, and we will certainly do so if we get out of that note measures that we can take more quickly. Mr Snels had also briefly asked about the petition on a fair price for meat. Why are we treating it in the building blocks? I very much welcome this social commitment. In addition, there are a number of elements, such as: how do you deal with them? They're really part of the building block discussion. I have not yet studied the whole petition, but the introduction of a meat tax is, of course, a sympathetic idea, because the external costs are not always taken into account. Mr Van Raan also mentioned the fair price. At the same time, it is not an easy step to take. We have had a discussion before about chicken blocks and meat juices contained in healthy products. That's really complicated. The cabinet therefore does not intend to introduce a meat tax, I say. However, I would like to ask my officials, in the context of the building block exercise, to look at better pricing in the tax field, including in the case of greening measures. I think they're really necessary. So it might well be that a next cabinet might not come up with such a meat tax as it does in the petition, I don't know, but it is looking at another way of getting a fair price in the meat industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u137	Behind that petition was a pretty solid report from CE Delft. In the past, we have often talked about VAT differentiation, but excise duty has been chosen here. I would, however, appreciate the fact that meat and its negative external effects on health, which they called attention to, will be included in that exploration. Then, of course, it is logical to compare this with, for example, standardisation and to involve the implementation burden. I get that, too. But taking this explicitly into the explorations, as a commitment I would very much like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u138	Of course, I don't set the agenda. We did that apolitically. I cannot imagine, having heard everything, that greening and pricing emissions and externalitions, to put it in good Dutch, would not be a part. Of course, that's one of the things you have to look at in a new tax system. Meat is one, but there are really more consumer goods that have a high impact. So I'm assuming this will be taken. Then there's training expenditure. Mr Omtzigt still expressed some reservations about the date of entry into force. I have a rather long answer, which is mainly intended to say that they have come a long way in replacing fiscal expenditure in the STAP bugdet. There are execution tests. There is broad willingness to do so. Soon there will be an AO on this. In short, progress is being made. From the outset, however, the intention was to link the entry into force of the law with the entry into force of the STEP budget. I want to make no mistake about that. I have made that guarantee explicitly to the Chamber a number of times. For example, both schemes are also linked in budgetary terms. The KB is not struck until the budget has been placed in the Official Journal and there is absolute certainty as to its date. I think I have already seen a concept of an amendment that Mr Omtzig is preparing with broad support. In so doing, he assumes that the procedure in which both Chambers reserve the right to demand that the entry into force be determined by law. I will say again, but quietly, that I do not think that such an amendment is necessary, because I am still willing to submit it to both chambers, with many forms of pleasure. In that case, your Chamber would also have had the opportunity to discuss that Royal Decree. Anyway, I understand the wish is different. I'll comment on that later. Mr Omtzigt also had a number of questions about the accessibility of the Tax Telephone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u139	Does the Secretary of State now preach that even an amendment on a pending procedure is not recommended? I am a little counting what great changes we as a parliament are going to achieve to the eight laws that have been tabled. I'm counting €0. Anyway, we're going further. But the Secretary of State even hesitates to give a preliminary ruling on a motion for a resolution which is widely supported by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u140	I don't know where Mr Nijboer gets that. I was just trying to report...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u141	Well, it's not necessary, it's not useful, I'll come back with my judgment later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u142	Well, I thought it was a very nice way to say: I really think that by law this is too much for us. But if there's that wish, I'm not gonna stop it. That's the way it is. I don't know where exactly you... But maybe my...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u143	The Secretary of State knows very well what I'm talking about. I have already indicated on the second day of the procedure that there is really very little movement on the part of the cabinet towards the Chamber. It may be important for Parliament, but it does not represent a great deal in the exercise of essential legislation. And take all the other things: the SGP comes up with a point, other parties come up with points, I come up with points. But the Secretary of State will read his own arguments again on this fourth day. I think that's a bad thing. I think that legislation will be better if Parliament's arguments are listened to better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u144	I don't disagree. I think it is right that we should listen to Parliament's arguments. And vice versa. I also hope that Parliament will listen to each other. But if you're asking me if it's a very sensible way to do that, I'm saying there's another way to do it. At the same time, if you'd like... I promised that I wouldn't have all the amendments... You bring it back a little bit as if I were deciding that I do not make a choice here, but I had said at the beginning of the debate that I would not give my opinion on all these amendments. I did not want to do that with this amendment either. In all honesty, that doesn't seem so strange to me. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will continue with Mr Omtzigt's question on the Tax Phone. I think it is a good thing that Mr Omtzigt gave a number of signals after a conversation he had with an employee. I just totally agree with him that the accessibility of the Tax Phone is important. We're investing in that, as you know. Apart from the 300 people who are leaving and who we need to replace, more than 300 additional people have been added to help reduce the workload and thus increase accessibility. We are also working on further improvements to ensure that we have more capacity, for example at peaks. Mr Omtzigt had a few examples of this. The same applies, for example, to the moment when a system is temporarily unavailable. Unfortunately, it will still be with us for a while that it happens sometimes. That's exactly why you need spare capacity to catch it. We hope that we are an end to that, but we will certainly continue to improve the service provision of the Tax Service, including the Tax Phone. I could talk about that endlessly. We have done so in the annual plan and report. And I'm sure we'll do that more often. There was also a question about the VAT reduction on the electronic counterparts of books and magazines. For example, Mr Omtzigt's question was whether we could ask the ACM to further investigate the price development. Everyone, including myself and of course the consumer, would like you to see a VAT reduction in the price. I fully share that. I was asked how you could do that and ask the industry to draw up a top ten of the most sold newspaper subscriptions or school books. Over the last few days, we've contacted the Media Federation, the Ministry of OCW and the Journalism Incentive Fund. All of them do not have such a list, or are unwilling to make it because they are not sure if it is representative. They don't want to turn this place upside down. That leaves in particular the suggestion, and also my own idea, of Mr Omtzigt and the rest of the Chamber. How do we do that? I will take Mr Omtzigt's suggestion to approach the ACM and ask if they could perhaps play a role in it. I also take to heart the option put forward by Mr Van Weyenberg whether we can find another agency that does. I'm just trying to say that anyone who made sense to ask if we could use their list couldn't give it. I will also take with me in contact with the ACM Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt's request to make a comparison, in particular, between prices at the end of 2019 compared to those in 2020. I will, of course, inform the Chamber of the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you for that commitment. That's clear. I assume that we will hear something from the ACM somewhere in the spring and that Van Weyenberg's route will be private if the ACM fails. But I'd like it to happen in the public sector. Will you come back to the questions I asked about the investigation into the relationship between the tax administration and the citizen? Those questions were actually before that and they belong to the building blocks for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u146	Sorry, about the...? I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u147	There is another motion from March on an investigation into the relationship between the Tax Administration and the citizen. I have made a number of suggestions for this, for example to engage with citizens who have been severely affected by the Tax Administration, to explicitly ask those researchers to engage in conversation with people on the floor of the Tax Administration and to let a woman or a man with stature chair that investigation. I was thinking about an old Ombudsman or a former member of the Supreme Court. Would you like to take these three suggestions and work out a plan that you can send to the Chamber over the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u148	I remember these questions from Mr Omtzigt. They are also in line with his earlier request, for example, to look at the legal status of the citizen. Actually, this is some sort of interpretation of that. In the answers we made a cut and we started on the surcharges side. I think that we have given this priority for logical reasons. At the same time, Mr Omtzigt's request for that other part certainly does not go away. So I'm gonna take these suggestions. I'm not ready to say: I'm doing it exactly like this and it's gonna be an old ombudsman or something. I know very well what Mr Omtzig wants and they are also important suggestions. I do not have any oral questions on this right now, but we are certainly going to include it in the report that will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u149	That's exactly what I was looking for. The commitment was to settle that this autumn. We are at this moment about halfway through the autumn, so I'm actually just expecting a letter with a proposal within a few weeks. And then, preferably, a proposal after which the Chamber can say 'hey, we think this is a good idea' or 'hey, maybe this aspect should be added'. If we can expect that letter before, say, December 10th, then we can take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u150	I'll give you that letter, because that's part of the promise I made before. I would ask Mr Omtzig to give us a little bit of clemency, because we have a great deal of attention to another file he has also found important. As a result, this didn't disappear off the radar, but it was put in the back. I'll see if December 10th is possible or not, but I also want to be careful that we... Of course, we want to move things forward quickly, but I am also glad that it happens carefully. Because I didn't help you either when we finally come up with a letter that you say, "What kind of letter is this? I expected much more of this." We're gonna do it, and I promise you we'll take your suggestions with us. I will also see if 10 December is a viable date. I'd like to check that out, but then I'll let you know. Mr Van Weyenberg had another question about the e-cigarettes. A study is being carried out by VWS on the harmfulness of cigarettes. He wants to know if I am prepared to consider whether there should also be a tax treatment. I've promised that before, and I'm gonna say it again now. So, yeah, we're gonna take a look at the results of that investigation after that investigation by the U.S. Secretary of State in consultation with him. We shall therefore consider whether it is appropriate to follow up on the tax side. So first the investigation and then the question comes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u151	I asked a question about tobacco. I thought that place I... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u152	I'm here to talk about tobacco. The trotting and racing still comes for the tobacco. I won't try to lay a line between the two! Mr Van Weyenberg had a serious question about the compensation of trotting and racing, namely when the Chamber will be informed. I told the Chamber during the WHO that it was part of our spring decision-making, in which budgetary resources could also be allocated. The sector is also aware of this. The compensation is therefore part of the conversation and in the spring we will come back to this after agreement with the sector. Mrs Lodders had a question about a mistake in the tonnage regime. She actually asked whether the sector is right that a bill on tonnage regulation contains an incorrect translation. The sector stated that the bill should be about gross conversion instead of what it now says: profit. There is no question of an incorrect translation, I think. We have always been in talks with the Commission with the word 'profit'. But it is true that, in the decision it then took, the Commission refers to'revenues'. It's about sales. So it was not what we started with, but it does allow us to adapt the tonnage regime within the Commission's established system to that effect. Then a question has been asked about tobacco.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u153	I hear the Secretary of State say it does offer space. I did not get this question until later, as I think I indicated yesterday here in the plenary. People have followed this debate, including in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u154	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u155	They were based on what was discussed at the time. If we want to bring this back to what was originally discussed, should it actually go through an amendment to that tonnage regime? Or are there other options?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u156	I am thinking of an amendment to the tonnage regime. If it's anything other than yes, I'll let you know, but I think that could be very good. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u157	Okay. So the Secretary of State does agree with the line I put forward? During the negotiations and the whole discussion it was assumed that there was one, and in the final document there was perhaps it was not the translation that eventually a different conclusion was drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u158	Exactly. While we spoke during the notification process of 'profit', we were given a decision on 'gross turnover'. Let me check whether that amendment is still necessary or whether this is coming. I think it's necessary. But it could be. That space is within our reach. I would like to pass that on to Mrs Lodder. We had stayed with the tobacco, the tax increases. Mr Van Otterloo insisted that we continue with the increase in excise duty on tobacco. He wasn't really concerned with excise duties, which would be nice for us, but with the effect on the reduction in the number of smokers. He asked: is it true that at some point there is a turning point where the levying of a higher rate of excise duty per package leads to a lower turnover of excise duty? Where's that turning point, he asked. As we increase the price per package, we see that alternatives are going to emerge. People are gonna do it illegally, or they're gonna import it in parallel. Then you see all kinds of streams that we would rather not have. That's right. That is why we often try to make excise policy happen step by step. Well, then that dropout effect is less. So if you raise the price too hard at once to, for example, €10 we talked about earlier, you saw that this probably had a big displacement effect. For example, people were going to import it illegally. Then you see, strangely enough, that the price per package goes up, but the total revenue from the excise duty goes down. Mr Van Otterloo's question was: can you determine exactly where that occurs? No, not that. We checked to see if we could, but we can't do that so fast. I don't think it's the exact turning point either. If you want to arrive at a price per package of a high level, it's about the wisest way to do it gradually, step by step. That is also what we in the cabinet do. So we are going to increase 1 January, we are going to increase in April and then also on 1 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u159	I understand from a Secretary of State for Finance that he thinks that is the most sensible way of doing this from a financial point of view. He talks mainly about displacement effects, so people don't stop. But when I speak to Secretary of State Blokhuis, he is talking about the increase to stop people. That is, of course, a different story, and my question was much more about that than about the border effects or the illegal trade in Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u160	I am entirely in line with Mr Blokhuis' wishes. I think it is wise for us to raise that price, so that there will be less smoking in the end. I also think that there are a lot of other sensible measures to get people off smoking: not offering it so easily; taking it away from the checkout points. So there are a lot of measures. This package of measures should ultimately lead to a smoke-free generation. Taxation can help with this. If you get displacement of cigarettes from the official circuit to the parallel circuit, you also run the risk that the tar content is less good, is worse, and that all kinds of cigarettes I don't know about any less. That's what we've been investigating. So you actually want to seduce people to stop smoking because it's precious to the wallet, but if you do that too hard, it's counterproductive. That is why we finally chose the path we now have in the Prevention Agreement. We're afraid people might start smoking fake cigars. So that was not done from an excise point of view. If we succeed and sooner or later we no longer have the tax revenue of smokers because there is no smoking, you will not hear me complain. Well, if there's just as much smoking, but of a worse quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u161	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u162	The example is Australia, but Australia does not have the same border effects as we do. In Australia, a price similar to €10 worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u163	Very well, thank you. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u164	I'm going back to the point of trotting and racing. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about this in the first term. I was very happy there, because I had forgotten that question, when I had asked it in the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u165	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u166	So, partly on behalf of Mr Van Weyenberg, now the question of when it will be settled. We just heard the Secretary of State say he's still talking. We do not care very much who controls it, whether it is Finance or VWS or the two together, but we would like to have the solution by the first quarter of next year at the latest. I hope the Secretary of State can promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u167	I think I was very clear a moment ago, but I am glad to say that we are in agreement about it and we are in agreement with the Spring note, when the money is distributed, this solution is also introduced. I do not have budgetary money for the compensation scheme now, but I can take it with me on the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u168	Just now, when we were talking about excise duty, you were talking about illegal cigarettes and stuff. That is also bad, but we have already found that the policy is mainly disastrous for the small entrepreneur in the border region, who loses his customers. There is a road leak of around 65%, as we saw in 2013. What I actually find even worse is that five different measures are under way for the tobacco industry in the coming year. Whatever you think of cigarettes, they're still a legal product and the Secretary of State gets quite a lot of money through it. However, there are five measures for industry as a whole. This could mean that there are four different packaging forms somewhere in 2020. This is very annoying for every industry and also for consumers. Again, whatever you think of cigarettes, can't the Secretary of State seriously see if it's necessary to make five changes in one year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u169	We took a serious look at it. The decision we finally took has been carefully considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u170	Do you mean by "carefully" that you deliberately saddle the industry with five changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u171	We have agreed on a number of measures. I have just said that on the fiscal side we see this on 1 January, 1 April and 1 January next year. So that's how we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u172	But that's three. In addition, the packaging changes and needs another photo on it. These are five different points that industry must meet. If you just put some of those changes on one date, it's better for everyone, eventually for the consumer too. I don't really understand why we don't just do that, if it's so obvious, with even 65% leakage effect, which makes the treasure chests in Belgium and Germany bacon. If you're just looking at it economically, why don't we just do this? That's not politics, that's the basis for dealing with each other in a normal way. I really don't understand why that's not possible. It is five different points; bundle a few and you have the same result, but it is more pleasant for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u173	I understand that Mr Mulder would have liked to have made that choice. I believe that all kinds of agreements have been made, including European ones, about what you do and what you don't do and about timing. I think we're sticking to that, and this came out. It's not consciously meant to test anything. This is just gonna come out eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u175	I can't make it prettier, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u176	Like Jan Schaefer said, I'd like some. Can you get into a rounding mood?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u177	We're about at the end. Mr. Chairman. I do not know what Jan Schaefer would have said about the compensation scheme Bbz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u178	That is what Mr Van Weyenberg is going to tell us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mr Omtzigt says he was, but I'm sure he wasn't. I wanted to come back to a previous point, the trotting and racing. The Secretary of State's intention to resolve it is clear. I noticed with my colleague, Mr Lodders, that spring note sounds good, but then it seems as if we still have to look for money somewhere, while it is a backlock of resources. Could the Secretary of State be even more precise in the second term? I'm aware that we may be asking ourselves over. There was now a question mark on our side about what was unintentional. Could he say another word about that? After all, it is a question of retrieving an unintended return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u180	Sure. Moreover, it is a misunderstanding, I would rather say in the first period than in the second period, that the Spring Note is only about the claim for additional or less resources. Of course, it's also about how you allocate resources to something. You are absolutely right that it is a question of revoking certain resources. Anyway, that's what the whole consultation with the sector is about. There were a number of solutions. They could join another union and then they could get money through VWS. That's the simplest solution. The question is whether they can do that or not. But it is clear that compensation is sought for them. The way to deal with this is ultimately determined in the spring decision-making process. I believe that there is an attempt here to remove any misunderstanding that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u181	That's always nice, but the crux is that there's just resources for the backlock. You're gonna need the spring note to book a good budget on how to shape the backlock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u182	That's right. Mr Omtzig asked whether more publicity could be given to the compensation for loan assistance. For example, can the scheme no longer be open or can a campaign not help? He's right. In the end, we had reserved a sum for that. I believe that 1/34th of that amount has now been spent. In fact, we have already taken many actions together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment to bring this regulation to the fore, also because we saw so little use being made of it. The best thing we can do is to use a kind of superslot offensive over the next month and a half in an ultimate attempt to find people who haven't been there so far. That is what I am happy to say to Mr Omtzig. Then what's the final offensive? We can make a final appeal to the injured ex-entrepreneurs on the website of the Tax Administration and of Fees to report to Fees. We can and will make a call in house-to-house magazines. We will pay attention to and provide information on the scheme during the Intermediaries Days. Those days with tens of thousands of intermediaries, who often help these people, are in November and December. I could also say that we can help anyone who comes forward before the end of the year, even if they don't have all their papers in order. Well, at least we'll know they're there. Hopefully that'll help people get that money. An extension of the scheme, a six-month extension, sounds very nice. But then there must be a legislative amendment, because there is an overrun of the five-year deadline for the closure of a supplementary year. On the budgetary side, we must release funds for a new tax year, if that is not done in this year. In short, it's a little less simple than just opening up six months. But I agree with Mr Omtzig that I am also trying to tell him that we still need to get everything out of the closet to see if more people meet this requirement. I also admit that all those who do not yet have everything in order after that year will be eligible for this compensation. Of course, we would very much like people to be able to meet them if they are hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u183	The Secretary of State has already said that about 3% of the funds have been used and 97% of the funds have not been used in this dossier. I thank him for the effort that is being made. Perhaps we should have done some of those efforts a little earlier. We could have insisted on that, so that is not a reproach. I would nevertheless ask the Secretary of State to see how he can extend this for a number of months, because I do not see how it will be possible in the next six weeks to raise awareness and get people to submit these applications on time. I really ask him to see how he can at least extend that application period, so that municipalities can also do a search themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u184	I'll consider it. I'm gonna think about how best to do that. It does mean that there must be changes in the law and everything. It's a little more complicated than that. I'm gonna do my best to do it as smoothly as possible. I would also like to take away the image that nothing has happened so far. There have really been a lot of actions and little has been heard about them. I hardly dare anymore, because then Mr Nijboer will look at me because I am trying to convince someone that my solution can also have very much value without necessarily following what is going on. Bearing in mind what Mr Nijboer said, I will not say: that will never happen. I think about it, but I would ask Mr Omtzigt to think about it for a moment if he is all worth doing and see if there is anything else he can do. Then I'm sure we'll get back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u185	I'd like to hear it in second term. It often also succeeds in prolonging things, especially if it is to the benefit of the citizen, with a ministerial arrangement or something like that. So I'm looking for ways to make that public, so we don't get people asking afterward: what happened here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u186	Yes. Then briefly box 3, at least that's what I think. Because let's face it, this is not a part of the bill, so I say to the viewer at home. They were responses to a line or thought I outlined earlier about how you could do that better than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u187	A small point of order, however. Box 3 will continue next year. The Secretary of State is right that there are no changes to box 3 in this Tax Plan, but with that the questions about the legality and the like of this tax are no less relevant. After all, we find in the Tax Plan that we have a box 3 next year. Other things can be placed out of order, but this one is really part of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u188	Mr Omtzigt is quite right, of course. I was more concerned that people sometimes think that we are already discussing a law, and that is not the case. Of course, I understand all the questions about the current system and its sustainability, and so I am going to try to answer them. I shall begin with Mr Stoffer. He said you really need to keep looking at the burden-sharing between groups. For example, he mentioned people with a lot of savings or people with a house in box 3. Mr Nijboer mentioned the high exemption for the wealthy savers. He said it's getting too high in the new system. Let me say to everyone who has questions about this: you are all right. That is also what I said in the announcement of the system. I said that I could imagine it something like this, but there are really important questions to be solved, for example, where it comes to having a second home for a student child or whatever. The impact of these measures on the different groups is further assessed. We also look at people with a lot of savings and people with a house in box 3. The return on both is, of course, different. Also in a system where you actually measure return, you will see that the return on savings and own homes is different. This does not necessarily always have to be resolved. To Mr Nijboer, for the record, we are not introducing a higher exemption for savings. We say there's a tax-free income from all your assets. If you decide to save in it with a very low return, you can build it up to a lot. But if you choose to do that in a different way, through higher return investments, you'll get that tax-free income faster. There is therefore no exemption for savings. Then there are the more legal questions on the European legal sustainability of Mr Omtzigt. Those were not in themselves insignificant questions. I see Mr Nijboer standing, so I'm having second thoughts. Why don't I just keep going and see if there's another objection?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u189	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u190	It was about the external advice: the application on the legal sustainability of the box 3 system as it has been since 2017. So we've had an earlier ruling on the system until 2017. That was four years. We've had questions about that. This question is really about additional legal advice on the system since 2017 and whether we are going to apply for it. I won't do that. There are, of course, mass-objection procedures. In this procedure, I take the view that our argument is that the box 3 tax applicable from 2017 does not conflict with Article 1 of the ECHR at system level, but that it is up to the court to judge it. It is therefore not obvious to ask for an opinion on a point of law which we have at the same time submitted to the highest court in the country, namely the Supreme Court. This could in advance call into question the statements made during the procedure before the Supreme Court. That doesn't work so well. That's why I don't. Mr Omtzigt then suggested that the Chamber could ask for an opinion from its own parliamentary lawyer. I can imagine. But I can also imagine him saying: well, perhaps it is wise to wait first for the ruling of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, because he too might consider that to be the highest authority in the Netherlands when it comes to such a question of law. That's about the period after 2017. There were also questions from before 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u191	That question is relevant. That question is relevant because you have legislation here. One of the things you adopt legislation for is to test whether that legislation is contrary to the Constitution, international treaties and that sort of thing. So the reason we asked that question was not to get ahead of the Supreme Court, but to check here as co-legislator that we don't get wet. The reason I ask is that it is not unfair to savers if that legislation is unfair. It also gives rise to major complications for the Tax Administration if it is subsequently established in a mass objection procedure that the legislation was not correct and that we have to compensate people one by one. I fear that tomorrow we will already have an example of how difficult that is. In box 3, that's a lot harder. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he has asked for internal advice. The ruling of the Supreme Court of June of this year on the system as it stood until 31 December 2016 was far-reaching, namely that there is a breach at system level of the First Protocol ECHR. Then the question is: have you sufficiently satisfied yourself that there is a legislative proposal here on the continuation of box 3 which, in your best opinion, is not contrary to the ECHR? Your answer that you take the view that it is not in conflict is another answer, and that seems to me to be rather weedy. Imagine that you would take the view that it was in conflict. That would be real news. Of course you take that view, but are you sufficiently convinced, is the question, that we will have no problem with the Supreme Court afterwards, now that the interest on savings is just 0 or 0.01?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u192	You just mentioned an important point, namely that the Chamber is a co-legislator. In adopting our law, which we have therefore made together, we have established that we have that sustainability. We did the tests. From the existing law, of which we are therefore jointly co-legislators, as you yourself said, we do not think that is contrary to Article 1. That is our position. That's what the legislator has. Now it is up to the Supreme Court to decide whether they think we are right. So asking for extra legal advice while this is already running at the Supreme Court, actually suggests that you have doubts about its sustainability. That is weird, because we, as legislators, did that test at the time and didn't think so. This applies not only to me, therefore, I have just given you a small suggestion in the direction of Parliament's lawyer, but also to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u193	Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u194	It's the Secretary of State who's filing the law. There is also a chapter on European law. It doesn't say that the Secretary of State is expecting problems. Well, I guess I'll just have to assume it's been checked. But the reason I'm asking is because there's a ruling from the Supreme Court on the system until 2017, which goes way beyond what many of us expect. Let us be honest: we did not expect him to say that there might be a problem at system level. The parliamentary lawyer also went a lot further than we expected. Then it makes sense that we ask ourselves: are we sure that we fixed it well in 2017? Then you're doing an additional investigation, aren't you? I am not asking you to put that on the table, because it is in a legal procedure. Imagine if I were to say, here, opposite, you have our legal advice. I don't think that's convenient. All I ask is whether the Secretary of State is sufficiently convinced that the legislation he submits is sustainable under the ECHR by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u195	But does Mr Omtzig not agree with me a bit that, given the question of law after 2017, which is now before the Supreme Court, that is the highest judge who can give a ruling on this issue, it does not have much value to ask for legal advice on this matter at the moment. In the end, it is the highest judge who can rule on that. It looks weird for the whole thing if I formally applied for additional legal advice. And again, if the Chamber as co-legislator asks its own lawyer about that, then you doubt whether it is. But we do not have that doubt in the course of the procedures and the drafting of that law. And if the Supreme Court doesn't feel the same way about it in the end, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u196	Mr Nijboer... No, no, Mr. Ommzigt, you're out of your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u197	He spoke to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u198	Yeah, but that's the trouble, because when the Secretary of State starts asking questions to people who are through their interruptions... Can you tell me in five seconds? Last time, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u199	I'll never do it again, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u200	That's tricky, Mr. Chairman. The reason why this is an important question is that the same legislation will also come into force in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u201	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u202	If not, it would be an irrelevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u203	Thank you. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u204	I am afraid that the Secretary of State will be able to come up with a good deal of coffee with his new system and that he will underestimate the legal risks. The VVD is now all ordering 100 mile plates. The cabinet also overlooked the legal risks. This is quite a pressing point for a lot of people. We're all being e-mailed because people are angry. Then there will be a new system, the introduction of which will take a very long time and where the same matters are not properly dealt with. Why don't you just introduce a capital tax? That would be much more just, wouldn't it? Then you don't have the situation that people with €880,000 are not paying taxes at all, zero euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u205	Mr Nijboer again makes the mistake of thinking that the assets in the new system do not matter. The new system is based on the fact that you make a difference between savers and investors. That's the big idea of the new system, because you get very little interest on your savings account. Again, I understand damn well what it means if you don't get any cents of interest on your savings account and be taxed on a flat-rate basis as if you'd invested. We need to put an end to that. I have said that I want to do so and that I want to do so as soon as possible. The fastest possible time frame, where I and the Chamber and later also can discuss this kind of thing with the Upper House, and when we are ready to enter it into agreements with the data providers, 2022 is. That's not because I'd like it to last a long time; no, I'd rather have it arranged tomorrow. However, care must be taken in the legislative process, which we must go through together. There are still a lot of legitimate questions, for example Mr Stoffer's question and others about those and those groups. We all need to get a picture of that. In short, the capital tax demand is super interesting. We are going to talk about this in the context of the building blocks, but I cannot change that quickly within the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u206	I think that's taking way too long, but that's what the whole room thinks. I myself, as a Social Democrat, do not think it is right that people who have many tons of wealth should not pay off. I agree that it is unfair for a saver to be taxed with €50,000 or €60,000 much more than your return. We all want to do something about that. But you could also say: if you have half a million or a million or more, then you really have to pay, even if you put it all in a savings account. The Secretary of State doesn't choose it, but it has to be brought in by the other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u207	This is really an incredibly bad way of debating. That's what I want to say. Because you are acting as if I choose to defend the current system, when I am the one who said: we need to change the system. You say I don't want to change it now. Mr Nijboer knows that we have agreed with the Chamber on how we make laws. I can't decree on my own that anything goes into January 1st. This includes a legislative process, of which the Chamber is a part. It would be crazy if Mr Nijboer were to say, "Don't do the chamber treatment, just set up this new law in one go." That's not how it works. You agree with me that we have not yet discussed the new system in 2021. You look like you're innocent now, but you pretend like the whole Chamber wants a new system, but this Secretary of State keeps hammering on the old system. That really is the wrong summary. The system exists. I want to adjust it. I want to do this in the fastest possible way, and the quickest possible way is to take into account the fact that there has to be legislation and that it is feasible. Then I will be released on 1 January 2022. We all agree that people who don't get anything on their interest shouldn't be struck in a system like they would make a lot on that money. We agree on that. You should not try to create a contradiction there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u208	I notice the Secretary of State is getting very annoyed. I would point out that it is not up to him to throw parliamentarians at their feet whether they are debating properly or not, or what I know. Furthermore, I think that the Secretary of State would do well to show a slightly different attitude in Parliament if he were seeking broad support in both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u209	To be honest, I am not yet ready to judge the new system, because today we have to assess the current system. I agree with Mr Omtzigt on this point, which is why I have tabled an amendment. I have serious doubts as to whether the current system, which is being used from 2017, does not still have the same problem and whether there are still assumptions in it, although there is another measure in it. I'm just saying that because I'm back here tomorrow morning. It seems like my living room is talking about the PAS. Reference is made to the Council of State. The first statement by the Council of State was in 2015, and we are now having problems because that statement has not been followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u210	I didn't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u211	Well, then you'll just continue. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u212	I'd like to answer the question, but I just didn't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u213	My question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u214	There was also no specific question; it was just an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u215	Sorry, but my question was how can the Secretary of State ensure that the current system is Council of State proof, given the ruling that was made on that other subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u216	Of course, I can't guarantee anything. In fact, that point of law is now ahead of the Supreme Court. The only thing I know for sure is that once there are statements, we have to deal with them. I also agree with Mr Nijboer that it may well be that it is not what we think at the end of the day. But that was really a different question than asking for legal advice on sustainability, because that is what we are convinced of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u217	Can you finish your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u218	Yes. Mr Omtzigt had asked a short question about the period for 2017. He asked me if I could ask for an additional opinion on this. I did say that I thought that was wise, because we had a clear picture before 2013 and 2014, but not before the years after. So that's what I'll do. In my view, this included Mrs Lodder's question as to whether I would like the Court of Auditors to carry out an investigation in order to validate that low-risk return. We were talking about estimates at first, but here it is important that we look back at the past to see what is going on. So I think such a validation is very good. I think the real expertise in validating returns is most at DNB. So I will ask DNB and if necessary the planning agency to see how high the returns were at that time. So this is not an estimate, it is a realization. I think we can do that validation properly. That is also what we need to do in order to ultimately determine how we stand in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u219	Mr. Ommzigt, you're through your 12 interruptions. In my softness I gave you another thirteen, but fourteen is really impossible. The Secretary of State is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u220	It's eight laws!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u221	I know, but I told you you had 12 interruptions, and I really want to go to dinner. I've already given you a 13th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u222	Mr President, on a point of order. If you think that the number of interruptions about the Tax Plan, which raises 13 billion, should be limited, I will take note of that and I will come back to that later. I really don't think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u223	You're welcome. If it's okay, we'll be done with this term in a few minutes, so it doesn't matter that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u224	Mr President, I shall return to all the questions in the second term. But if you really mean that a mass objection procedure that can be initiated and which can result in another 500 000 or more than a million people likely to object can be removed because there is one too many interruptions, then I do not think you really understand the importance of a tax plan compared to that of an emergency debate, which we do carry out every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u225	The importance is well known to me, but I have agreed with you twelve interruptions, and I am happy to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u226	Mr. Chairman. I'm almost making a little bridge with one of the last topics, the massive objection procedure. Mr Alkaya asked whether anyone participating in a mass procedure should now make an individual course to the judge. That is an important question in itself. In my reply, you will see that there is no clear answer. First of all, I would like to put this in the front line in order not to make it more difficult for those who want to do so than is necessary. That's really not what we want. Taxable persons who have lodged an objection after the mass objection procedure have the opportunity to apply for a ruling individually. I think Mr Omtzigt had a question about that too. If an individual judgment is appealed against, the answer to the case law of a mass objection procedure will be similar to the judgment of the Supreme Court. That's the way it is. However, access to the European Court of Human Rights does not require the use of ineffective remedies. This means that it is in line with expectations that the collective decision will also exhaust national remedies and allow direct access to the ECHR. That is, I think, an important observation. This would mean that not everyone would have to follow an individual course to the Supreme Court before access to the ECHR. That's an important thing I want to say to the Chamber. But, as you will understand, I cannot give a guarantee of the admissibility of an individual complaint to the ECHR. We will really try to see how we can make it as easy as possible, so we will not end up with endless individual objections and procedures. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I am on the last topic on the subject of the previous debate on bonuses. We are not currently in a relationship with legislative proposals that we are discussing here, but there were, of course, a number of Members who made a brief comment yesterday. I understand that, given all the publicity around this file. Several sections raised the issue of CAF-11 yesterday. In view of the discussion, that was quite right. As you know, tomorrow I will receive an opinion from the Advisory Committee on Implementation Supplements, also known as the Donner Committee, which will issue a first part of its opinion specifically aimed at these parents. On the basis of this request for advice, I hope and expect to receive an answer from this committee to the question of how I can compensate the injured parents in the CAF-11 case as quickly and adequately as possible for the material and intangible damage suffered by them. I would also like to say to you that, after receiving this opinion and a brief examination of it, I will urgently draw up and send a cabinet response to this opinion to the Chamber so that we can begin as soon as possible to compensate the deceased parents, but also with the discussion that we are guaranteed to have with the Chamber. One final question was about the ibo around those surcharges. Indeed, part 1 of this ibo was released and went to your room. There's another part two coming up. We are currently using the time to prepare a cabinet response so that it can be offered to your Chamber at the same time as the ibo's Part 2 report at the beginning of next year. In doing so, I hope to have answered all the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u227	Thank you. Have all the questions been answered? I'll check the room. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u228	I asked the Secretary of State to see from now on that anyone who comes to the Tax Office to see his own file gets to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u229	That commitment has been made. It has been said that for some the file is already together and they can get it directly, while for others the pieces are still collected, after which it is sent in four weeks. That commitment has been made, I will keep it, and I will certainly monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u230	Fine. Thank you. So much for the government's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u231	As the first speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u232	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I asked the VVD if she wanted to apologize to the Netherlands for lying about purchasing power figures for years. And today, the Central Bureau of Statistics reports that the tax and contribution burden has already risen again over the last two years. And beware: the share of municipal charges has not even been taken into account. So it's even worse. The PVV wants to warn again about the reduction of tax morale among Dutch people. Tax morals are high in the Netherlands, always have been. The Dutch are proud to be willing to help each other. There's connection, though. For the time being, Mr President, because there are developments that can cause this tax morale to crumble. One of them is when taxes get way too high. We're getting along nicely with that. A second is when citizens see the government wasting taxpayers' money. A few years ago we had the case here that 7 billion had been spent on subsidising hybrid cars. At the end of the 7 billion, the Secretary of State said that it had not produced any results. Money thrown away. Now there is a new scandal: the biomass scandal. 11.4 billion is in danger of being spent on something that everyone in the House of Representatives says is not only useless but also worse than the present alternative, gas and coal. This Tax Plan is a cash issue of 729 million by 2020. If we do nothing here today, we are going to spend 729 million on what has been proven to be a bad measure. Yesterday, a number of parties made a bit of a laugh about this. I don't understand. The fact that D66 has a huge contempt for the taxpayer is well known. But I do not see why other parties would not want to support this amendment. The PVV's amendment prevents us from wasting 729 million, and at the same time it means that the public will have to pay less, because every household will in any case improve €83. That's the government's calculation, but if we use the CBS figures, every household will increase by €102.75 by 2020. We do something that nobody in this Chamber is for in principle and every household gets €102.75 more to spend. It seems to me that this should be seriously considered by the parties. Then I'll go to the motions. I already announced yesterday that I'm going to submit an OIC motion. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Member States of the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation (OIC) have the infamous Cairo Declaration as their starting point, stating that all articles in the Declaration are wholly subordinate to Sharia;]] [[Whereas this declaration takes away women's equal rights, endangers the lives of apostates and restricts freedom of expression;]] [[noting that Sharia is incompatible with the fundamental principles of democracy;]] [[noting that it is undesirable to support countries whose policies are completely contrary to fundamental Western principles;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a proposal on how the Netherlands will tax each transaction to an OIC country 10% of the transfer amount, with a minimum of €10 per transaction, and to spend the proceeds to reduce the inheritance tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both the previous and the current Secretary of State has promised to reduce the GNP;]] [[whereas a government must be reliable;]] [[noting that GDP revenues have not decreased in recent years, but have increased significantly;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the subsidy for plug cars by 1 January 2020 and to use this money for the phasing-out of the bpm,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-39]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u233	The last one's always the prettiest. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to reverse the VAT increase on messages and to use the budget surplus and not to reduce the high VAT rate to cover this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u234	Then thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u235	Then Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u236	Thank you, Mr President. In the first period, and also in the legislative consultation, we discussed the unjust recovery of the childcare allowance. I would like to address the point that my group was also shocked by the message and the letter from the whistleblower last night. But I will not go into that further, because that debate follows and the Secretary of State has said something about it. Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I mentioned a number of important principles in the Tax Plan: taxation is as low as possible, fair and fair. In addition, I have called for attention to be paid to the so-called assassins of purchasing power. On the one hand, we are reducing taxes by EUR 3 billion this time, but if we increase costs in other parts, then the people still have nothing in return. In that sense, I am a little disappointed in the written answer to the question of how we are going to monitor this and, more importantly, how we are going to take action. That is what the Secretary of State has dealt with, but as far as I am concerned, an additional step could have been taken with regard to these measures. Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. I'll get on with it. First of all, a motion to monitor the increase in the ODE tariff. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Climate Agreement provides for an increase in the ODE rate for non-domestics;]] [[Whereas this increase may contribute to the sustainability of the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that greenhouse horticulture can benefit from the SDE+ for the sustainability of greenhouses, for the purchase of solar panels and for geothermal energy;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the impact of the rising ODE rate on greenhouse horticulture and to pay particular attention to affordability and sustainability, and to inform the House of Representatives of both operatives before 1 April,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u237	I noted in the first term that we would have thought it logical to postpone box 2 for a year, because this also happens with the reduction of the tax on profits for entrepreneurs. That didn't work. That has to do with the global balance. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several measures have been taken in recent years in the context of the overall balance of income tax;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the empirical effects of (distortions in) global balance such as behavioural effects on entrepreneurs, whether entrepreneurs are actually responding to imbalances in balance, the consequences for the complexity of the tax system, or whether the current system does not leave too much room for tax structures and/or tax avoidance, and the effects on entrepreneurs, and to involve external investigations such as those of the CPB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u238	In the legislative consultation I talked about modernising travel expenses. I didn't come back to that. I'm restricting myself to the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the unpaid travel allowance both for commuters using public transport and for cars contributes to affordable commuting;]] [[Whereas this remuneration has not been indexed for some time;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the modernisation of travel expenses, including the re-indexation and other forms of modernisation, such as the impact on (sustainable) mobility behaviour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u239	Then my final motion, on monitoring the administrative burden on SMEs under ATAD 2. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the implementation of ATAD 2 represents an important step in the fight against tax avoidance;]] [[noting that the administrative burden resulting from the implementation of ATAD 2 is increasing;]] [[noting that companies have an obligation to keep up-to-date documentation showing the application of the measures set out in ATAD 2;]] [[noting that this documentation obligation also applies to small and medium-sized enterprises;]] [[Whereas, in particular, businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises should not be faced with unnecessary administrative burdens;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor the administrative burden for SMEs as a result of the documentation obligation under ATAD 2 and to consider as soon as possible whether additional administrative burden relief is necessary, for example around the documentation obligation;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Leijten and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u240	Mrs Leijten is not here today, but was involved in the preliminary stage. Then I have two comments, which, in view of my time, are very short. I talked about the WLTP, and in particular the conversion of the NEDC measurement method to the WLTP. I've already indicated that I'm sick of the ambiguity that there is. On the one hand, there is the method of the Secretary of State and, on the other, the sector. Mr Omtzigt will table a motion on this, including on my behalf. The same goes for box 3. There are a lot of concerns there too. I believe that everything has changed about fair and just taxation. We may be on the same side of the rope, but we are also laying down a tax plan in which we also talk about box 3 rates, so that's why the motion. Mr President, excuse the extra ten seconds. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u241	Good. Then Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't exactly count it, but I think we spent about 25 hours debating the Tax Plan in two WHOs and two days in plenary. That is not surprising either, because taxes really belong to the heart of democracy. The way in which we set it up and how we do it fairly requires a lot of political debate. That's important, too. At the same time, we spent a large part of those 25 hours on technical discussions. Because there's a lot of technology in taxes. We are talking about eight laws, so it is important that all these debates should be part of the legislative history, to make clear exactly where there may still be errors in the legislation and where there is uncertainty. That's what we've been doing over the past few weeks. Mr President, in that case I thought you were a little too strict in Mr Omtzigt's interruption. We have seen enough political positions now, but real clarification of the legal consequences of legislation is part of the legislative history. So I thought you were a little too strict about that. That's what I needed to say, Mr. Chairman. I do not know if it is customary to address the President in this way. Sorry about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u243	No, in the ten years I've been here, this is the first time, but that's all the more cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u244	But that is also because, in recent weeks, I myself have seen a great deal of improvement in this technique, and I have also removed some doubts with the officials of the Ministry, who, in addition to preparing the debates, have answered all those written questions. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, with steam and boiling water, the abolition of the dividend tax was deleted from the Tax Plan. At that time, we were talking about relief for large companies. If you look at the Tax Plan that is now before you, you can see that there is a change of course. This has to do with an increase in the burden on business. The Vpb is even going up; we are voting in favour of it. I also really hope that next year we will have another discussion about this and that the rate will not go further down but up. With a reduction in household charges, a reduction in citizens' energy bills and part of the Climate Agreement, this is really a different tax plan than it was a year ago. At the same time, we are seeing really big differences of opinion. We've dealt with the tax laws, but we've also looked ahead to all the reconnaissance. I think there is really only one thing that binds us in this Chamber when I see all these political views, and that is that the tax system should be simpler. I think the differences are going to be huge from the moment you look at questions like: should it become greener, should it become greener, what are we going to do with the price of meat and how are we going to look at income ratios and the correction of power ratios? This will be interesting in the political debate that we are going to have, especially in the run-up to the next elections, but it will also be very complex to hold politically on to the promise that the next tax system, if we are really going to reform, will become really simpler. Mr. Chairman. In addition to all these explorations, we also get the Ter Haar Committee. We have talked a lot about the effective tax burden on companies. We are going to continue this debate quickly, and I believe that there is still a great deal of profit to be gained by broadening the basis. We will see how that goes and how we are going to monitor what that means for the effective tax burden, especially since, according to some parties, tariffs need to be further reduced. We're also gonna talk fast about fees and box 3. That's all the misery of the past, you might say, which must be solved. Finally, Mr President. I only have one motion. I have given some thought to the reply of the Secretary of State on reporting. I will withdraw my amendment to that, because I agree with the main argument put forward by the Secretary of State. If you want to close that reporting channel, you have to do it in a European context. I would therefore like to withdraw my amendment, but there is an obligation on the part of the Secretary of State. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a risk of taxpayers circumventing the reporting obligation by using an intermediary who is deliberately only informed of a small part of a obliged cross-border arrangement, so that the notification to which he passes on to that small part of the construction is left out of the picture;]] [[considers that it would be undesirable to circumvent the reporting obligation and close a possible reporting slip;]] [[Calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to examine whether such a circumvention is taking place or could take place, and, if so, to urge the European Commission to adapt Directive 2011/16/EU in this context as soon as possible, taking into account the way in which notifications are administered and, if necessary, linked to each other;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber about this process with the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u245	I won't complete the time. That's a piece of cake, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u246	I think it was about the motion on ATAD 2, the motion on the administrative burden. I am looking in the direction of Mr Omtzigt. It is not about the motion on global balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u247	That's the motion in part No. 45. It's gonna be modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the government and to all the officials behind it for the comprehensive response. The government has worked on it and has written comprehensive legislative proposals. And we have done quite a bit of work on it and asked a lot of questions. I'll start at the main point. The main issue at the moment is the relationship between the citizen and the Tax Administration. There's things breaking. Tomorrow we'll have the Donner Commission. I must say that a tax administration that works according to the rules is essential in a rule of law. Because the citizen has to pay taxes. Moreover, the citizen always thinks that he pays too much tax, and there are reasons for that, but he has to comply with the law. If he doesn't comply with the law, then he's gonna get paid, impounded on cars or impounded on the house. The IRS has a lot of leverage. This means that the Tax Administration must always be correct with regard to the taxpayer, whether it is a citizen or a small business. We are getting too many signals that this is not the case and that these are not individual problems, but that there are pieces of the Tax Administration that are structuralally non-compliant. We assume that the Secretary of State will give it full transparency. I understand that this is not going to work today, in one day, because the problem is really too big for that. But this is his greatest task in the coming weeks. Because if trust in the Tax Administration falls away, we have a very big problem in the Netherlands. We can't underestimate that. People are not going to fill out their tax data as honestly as possible, which almost everyone in the Netherlands still does. That trust makes the work of the Tax Administration feasible. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. A tax officer who made a mistake with the tax was not properly deducted from the notary expenses and who later recovered himself, received a reprimand. All tax officials are pretty pissed about that, because this person himself has done a recovery without being asked. But it is not known whether those who have not complied with the law for years have been given one reprimand. I don't think this is gonna work to increase trust within the IRS. Mr. Chairman. Where do I not want to get out? We have a debate tomorrow on PAS legislation. We have debates here about whether or not to bring back IS children, about which colleagues have also started. I don't want to conclude that the judge is ultimately the one who has to decide where the IRS can go. Well, then it's too far. That's why I also made box 3 a big point. As a legislator, you really need to stay away from the question of whether you are rubbing against international questions or not when you adopt your legislation. That is why my first motion, because I do want to know, as the Secretary of State says, whether box 3 is legally sustainable after 1 January 2017. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Supreme Court has made a number of judgments on the conflict between Box 3 and the first ECHR protocol;]] [[noting that the parliamentary lawyer has delivered an opinion on the legal sustainability of box 3 to 1 January 2017;]] [[decides to have the parliamentary lawyer deliver an opinion on the legal sustainability of box 3 from 1 January 2017;]] [[Calls on the Court of Auditors to investigate what rate of return in box 3 in the years 2013 to 2016 without taking too many risks, which is the precise meaning of the Supreme Court's ruling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u249	Mr. Chairman. I am prepared at all times to amend the motion and see if we can do better at DNB. I'd like to think about that in the next few days. It must also be a legally sound analysis of what is and is not feasible. From there, we need to be able to make policies. Mr. Chairman. Then the cars. After many questions, it is still unclear how the transposition took place, but it seems that it is mainly the conversion from NEDC 1 to NEDC 2. I've already lost everyone in the public gallery, and so have a lot of people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u250	You already did that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u251	Yeah, I did. I can talk until we lose everyone, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u252	There aren't a lot of people left in the public gallery, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u253	No. But it is important that we keep the promise not to increase car prices. Because in the Netherlands almost a quarter of the cars that come on the road are imported. That's more than any other country in the world. That has to do with our high bpm. I'm not waiting for that. If we want to tax and sell cars, we can do so in the Netherlands. It has to be as clean as possible; totally once. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NEDC1 measurement method has been converted into the WLTP measurement method in steps;]] [[whereas the Cabinet indicated that the total bpm yield should not increase or decrease as a result of the implementation of WLTP, and therefore modified the bpm tables;]] [[calls on the Government to have an independent review of whether:]] [[the conversion from NEDC1 to NEDC2]] [[the conversion from NEDC2 to WLTP]] [[each budget neutral at both macro level and for the ten most sold cars, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u254	Mr. Chairman. We are right to say that Mr Snels was right to take significant steps in the climate debate. I've drawn attention to a number of files. On the point of the disabled vans, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for including them in the MIA lists and seeing how they are doing. I'm still worried about garbage. We can't listen to the sector right now, but if municipal waste ovens fall over, it will lead to significantly higher taxes. So, Secretary of State, be careful. Keep us posted. Keep the finger on the wrist. Keep talking. And if it goes wrong, intervene. I am not going to table a motion on it, but the Secretary of State knows me well enough to know that I am able to ask Parliament questions about it once, but also ten times if necessary. I share Mr Lodder's concerns about greenhouse horticulture. We also need to keep our finger on the wrist. If those who went to electricity go back to gas, we're doing it really wrong. That is not the intention of the Climate Agreement. In that case, we expect an update and amendments. That should apply to all matters. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Lower House receives the progress monitor annually as part of the cycle of monitoring and adjustment of the Climate Agreement;]] [[invites the Government in this annual progress monitor to specifically inform the Chamber about the costs, the CO reduction and the positive or negative side effects per fiscal measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u255	Mr. Chairman. We pay very close attention to the hand-to-the-crane at the electric cars, because, really, we don't need to understimulate and not overstimulate. I look forward to investigating the relationship between citizen and tax authorities. It was obvious how important that is to me. I have just tabled an amendment to extend the bbz scheme for another six months, thanks to the very hard-working finance officials. That money is all left over from the compensation for loan assistance. People who apply can get it. We have that amendment with a heavy risk for the abolition of training expenditure. Please take a look at Social Affairs! In the learning account currently in play there is the risk of a post-tax, because the decision-making power over that learning account lies not with the employer but with the employee himself. With a modern labour market it is also a bit fitting that the participant may decide within sensible limits, but an ex-employer should not be faced with a post-tax, because his former employee is taking a sensible course to get back to work elsewhere. So please look at it, so that it does not produce any post-taxes that we all do not consider desirable from the point of view of national policy. I forgot one thing about box 3, namely the promise that not everyone has to object and appeal and that massive objections are enough. I think that is a very pleasant undertaking, because that does not mean that we all have to object and appeal in order to safeguard our rights before the courts in Strasbourg. We should not use objections and appeals for that. The final motion, chairman, deals with the undesirable flow. It is very important that we now take great steps in this regard. The Secretary of State thinks that means we're going down from place one to place fourteen. I think it's good to keep an eye on that every year. If we can't do that, we'll be able to adjust it in time. We want real flows. Not everything has to go, but we don't want billions flowing through the Netherlands that have nothing to do with real activities. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is taking an important step with the withholding tax towards eliminating unwanted cash flow through the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Netherlands and Luxembourg have recently been clearly the two countries with the greatest flow;]] [[expresses the wish that in five years' time the Netherlands will no longer be in the top five transit countries;]] [[calls on the government to indicate annually whether the Netherlands is on the path to achieving this ambition and whether additional measures are necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started my speech yesterday with the observation that in the Netherlands you pay more tax on everyday business than many multinationals pay over a whole year. This Tax Plan doesn't change this. Inequality is hardly dealt with, while there is a big deal going on against people who are accused of payment fraud. Unrighteous! The Secretary of State has promised today that he will personally see to it that all the victims can at least have access to their own files. We, as the Socialist Party, will continue to fight side by side with the delegates until it is wrongly done to them. In the Tax Plan, the highest incomes are significantly reduced, while in the meantime there is energy poverty below the lowest incomes. The people who are already having a hard time are hardly making any progress, while the people who are already getting it right are going to get it even better. It is therefore clear that this is not a tax plan for the SP to be proud of. That is why we have tabled several amendments to amend them. I also have one more specific motion on the childcare allowance. I also wholeheartedly support a motion that will be tabled by D66 shortly. Here's my own motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is not possible to allow young children to go to childcare without a supplement and that there are groups of people who are unable to work due to medical conditions but are in daily use instead;]] [[noting that in a number of cases these groups are not in a position to avail themselves of the childcare allowance, nor of municipal facilities, although they do have a medical indication, and that their partners must refrain from taking care of the children;]] [[calls on the Government to allow anyone who is in daily use on the basis of a medical indication to be entitled to child care allowance if they are not entitled to municipal benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. Thanks also to all the staff in the Ministry, who not only provided us with many laws.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Many thanks for that, I also say to the people who are in the business there now to support the Secretary of State. I know that there are still many who do so outside this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a number of motions, which I will not repeat. These are, for example, the motions on the administrative burden that we need to reduce at ATAD 2, on fiscal balance and on how to fall out of the top five of transit countries in the Netherlands. There are also three amendments to which D66 participates. I would like to mention in particular that about the landlord charges, which will make more municipalities, from Breda to Leeuwarden, subject to the high amount of €25,000, while the rest of the Netherlands will receive €12,500 per house to be built, at least, the housing corporations that get that done. That is urgently needed, because we have a crisis in the housing market, and we need to build, build, build. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for a number of commitments he has made in the debate today. I mention the commitment on trotting and racing, partly made to Mr Lodders. That will finally be resolved in the spring. Then there was the commitment to look at the taxation of e-cigarettes when, like my group, D66, the research expects to show that there is health damage. The fact that the new electric vans will be covered by the MIA scheme in the target transport sector seems to me to be really good news. There is also a clear agreement to actively monitor twice in the coming years that this will not become unworkable for the sector either. Finally, I would like to mention the open attitude at the loading posts, not least. Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the three motions the following. This is a tax plan that allows us to tackle tax avoidance and green tax. With this Tax Plan, we also ensure that people will pay less tax. But the big challenge is really in the future of the tax system; many have already said it. I am pleased that three points, according to the State Secretary's commitment, will be taken into account in future explorations: Box 2 as well as a generic CO levy, and see how we can ask for a fair price for meat and tax it well, given the external effects. My group welcomes that. Mr President, I have three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the low VAT rate will also apply to electronic expenditure from next year, such as paid access to newspapers' or periodicals' websites and independent journalistic platforms;]] [[Considering that the digitalisation strategy aims at the Netherlands as a pioneer and testing ground in the field of digital innovation;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor that the chosen design provides sufficient scope for the application of the lower VAT rate for access to existing, new and future innovative forms of news provision and independent journalistic platforms, and to inform the Court of Justice of this every year during Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u258	Mr. Chairman. Then one on withholding tax, as far as my group is concerned, is an extremely important law. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the purpose of the withholding tax on interest and royalties is to prevent the use of the Netherlands as a gateway to tax havens and to reduce the risks of tax avoidance;]] [[Whereas this tax may cause such financial flows to cease to exist, but may also result in some of these flows being shifted, for example to special or territorial regimes which are not on the list of low-taxing countries, such as Hong Kong, Mauritius and Panama;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid the diversion of such flows at all levels of international coordination, e.g. at OECD level;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor closely both budgetary revenue and the degree to which financial flows are shifted in whole or in part, and to inform the Court separately;]] [[calls on the Government also to have a hard impact measurement of the introduction of the conditional withholding tax on interest and royalties carried out as soon as possible, but by 2023 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Lodders, Mr Snels, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Stoffer, Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u259	As far as the signature is concerned, I am still looking at Mr Mulder; that should work. Mr. Chairman. My final motion is about inequality, or, more precisely, about how to deal with it. The lack of ability is, I think, a real cause for concern. It's a good thing we're thinking about that. In the Kerdijk lecture, my group chairman said that we need to think about taxing assets above the million. Shouldn't you do something extra there, just to make sure that power doesn't lead to some kind of hereditary form of division in this country? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the context of building blocks for a new tax system, the Cabinet has fundamental policy options developed in the area of property taxation;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine various possibilities for higher taxes on assets above EUR 1 million,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of this four-day marathon, I think we should take stock of this debate. On behalf of the Labour Party, I have indicated that fundamental political choices are being made in the Tax Plan. We have heard a lot about the technique behind the eight laws, but there are also basic choices in this Tax Plan. This will ultimately reduce the burden on large businesses by 2 billion, while there is no economic need to do so. This includes increasing income disparities in the Netherlands, by reducing the top rate by 2.25% and increasing the rates in the first disc by 0.7%. The lowest incomes are on average up to €20 in the month, the incomes of one tonne and over €200 net in the month: income disparities are increased. Thirdly, the housing shortage, through the landlord levy, is also part of the Tax Plan, as far as the PvdA is concerned, is not sufficiently addressed. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a total of six amendments on all these points. We are going to hear the formal assessment of this, but we have already heard the material assessment during the debate. I am convinced that these amendments are not going to make it, or at least will not receive the support of the cabinet. They will not support the coalition parties either. This means that the PvdA Group will not support this Tax Plan. Because on three fundamental points, a lot of money is being spent on large businesses, income disparities are being increased, too little is being done about the housing shortage, too little is being done about it or the wrong choices are being made. Mr. Chairman. The tax plan is about 305 billion in income that we establish with each other. There were eight legislative proposals. I have looked at all the amendments carefully and I have heard the reaction and the discussions about them. It seems that exactly €0 is being shifted. I wonder if that has happened before. Three amendments will be adopted tomorrow at the vote, two of which will include a procedure for tabling amendments. That's a bit of a technical adjustment we do very often. In itself, this is very useful, and I will support both of these amendments, but they have very little to do with them. The other amendment is a useful amendment on the broadening of the landlord's tax which the criteria are different from, and I would have preferred to have kissed it even more broadly. And that's it. Mr. Chairman. In the relationship between parliament and cabinet, with Parliament as co-legislator, I find that really unhealthy and unprecedented. I see that Mr Omtzigt is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u261	Yes, but finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u262	So I think it's very unhealthy. We are all people's representatives. We decide; we vote. But if you broaden your support so little by listening to proposals from coalition parties but also from opposition parties and taking them over and making them yours, that reduces the support base, both in parliament and in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u263	This time I can agree that Mr Nijboer should remove two of my amendments as'somewhat technical'. He forgot the third thing about the Bbz. This is about relatively little, but I hope that Mr Nijboer will support the extension of this Bbz. But then there's the motion on the housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u264	Amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u265	The motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u266	Amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u267	Indeed, Mr Ronnes' amendment, which includes four other colleagues. If it continues, it could probably involve several hundreds of millions. That is not a small amendment. I really know the difference between large and small amendments. Mr Nijboer does not have to agree with this Tax Plan. But I challenge him to mention one example in the tax plans of the Rutte II cabinet that there was an amendment co-signed by at least one opposition party that shifted such large sums.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u268	We've moved 5 billion on the budget. A DG measure of nearly 2 billion has been taken that we needed three opposition parties in the coalition time. That happened on a large scale. Several amendments were adopted in each legislative proposal. My point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u269	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u270	I call Mr Omtzigt. Mr Nijboer has the floor. He's just finishing his sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u271	My point was... I support this amendment. I think it is a good amendment. It's fine. But money has not been placed within the budget. That's exactly zero euros. I think it is a good amendment, but this is the only substantial financial amendment to a budget of 305 billion which is likely to change with eight legislative proposals. I think that's minimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u272	I think that Mr Nijboer is failing a number of things here. He doesn't have to agree with this Tax Plan and I'm not even gonna try to convince him today. We're talking about the Tax Plan here. A number of agreements have made substantial changes to policy in relation to the coalition agreement. There has been cooperation with everyone, on points also with the Labour Party. Think of the pension agreement, for which I am grateful. Just get rid of the fact that hundreds of millions are being shifted in a tax plan? All the examples he has just given have taken place in the General Financial Reviews or elsewhere. Also valuable, but within a tax plan I have not seen such large shifts every year in the PvdA-time, I shall say neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u273	There are endless shifts, including with cars. We had very intensive discussions. Ed Groot, my predecessor, did. But it was very common for a lot of amendments to be tabled to a tax plan, both by the opposition and by the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u274	Speaking of listening to each other, will the PvdA vote tomorrow for the PVV amendment, leaving households with €102.75 per year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u275	No, but I got that yesterday or the day before yesterday when was that? It has already been explained. I want the sustainability funds to remain available for sustainability. The PVV is against greening society and thinks that the climate problem is not a problem for the Netherlands, but I think it is. So we disagree on the substance of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u276	Then the PvdA didn't listen. That's why I was talking about listening. That amendment is not about sustainability or greening. It is about the observation, which was made by the rest of your group and also in the First Chamber, that biomass has nothing to do with sustainability. If you follow that line and listen to the argument, you should vote in favour of the amendment. This has the additional advantage of improving household purchasing power by more than €100 per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u277	I have listened to your argument. You say that the money that is now being spent on biomass, on making the economy more sustainable, I want to give it to people. I say it may well be that biomass is not such a great efficient method and that we have to move on to other ways of promoting renewable energy, but that budget is very much needed for that. Much remains to be done to avert the climate crisis. I don't agree with that spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u278	Locking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u279	Closing, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u280	It has nothing to do with sustainability. That is precisely the point. That's why I'm asking you to listen. Read it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u281	I've listened very carefully, but we don't agree. It happens that you don't agree. However, I do not think that so few ideas are taken over by the cabinet from the parliament. Not for the broad support that this cabinet, I think, still needs, both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber and in the search for support in the coming period. I wouldn't have done it like this. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to do so more in the future. He's getting quite a few heavy debates ahead of him and if the attitude continues "I'll explain it again, because I know what's going on," that's not the right way to go. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u282	Thank you. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u283	Mr. Chairman. Eight days, eight legislative proposals and over 300 billion in taxpayers' money. I thank the Secretary of State for his stamina and his energy. I would also like to thank the official support, the people sitting here and also the people behind the scenes who have worked so hard and have often been able to give very good answers in the very short term. Well, that shows that there's quality in the Treasury Department. I have already appreciated the various measures in all the debates we have had. I have also made it clear to the Secretary of State that I and my group are satisfied with the reduction of the burden on the middle incomes that will take place next year, but that we are concerned about the design, that I am pleased with the two-written system that will be implemented next year, but that we are also concerned about the increasing tax reductions and that we are looking forward to the measures in this Tax Plan that are all about the tax impact of the Climate Agreement, but that we are also concerned about the budgetary loss that will not lead to CO reduction. I have a motion on this in a moment, but let me no longer keep the Secretary of State in suspense and first say that I will give a positive advice to my group when it comes to voting on this Tax Plan. The two legislative proposals on making tax avoidance more difficult also have our wholehearted support. After the somewhat gloomy tone of colleague Nijboer, I thought it was necessary to show this tone here as well. It's about the one motion I just announced. It sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to meet the 2030 and 2050 climate targets in a cost-effective manner;]] [[noting that the government intends to implement a fiscal incentive policy for the purchase of "emission-free" cars until 2025;]] [[Whereas the design of the European source policy makes it obvious that car manufacturers will be able to respond to the differences in Member States' tax regimes in achieving the manufacturers standard set by the European Commission;]] [[Considering that there is a risk that budgetary losses will lead to additional CO emissions elsewhere;]] [[calls on the Government to continuously monitor the effectiveness of the CO-reducing incentives for electric cars under the Tax Measures Act Climate Agreement in relation to European source policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Lodders, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u285	Thank you. Then Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u286	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State and all the officials who provided the answers. It must have been a huge job to answer the thousands of questions that have been asked in recent weeks. The Animal Party is surprised at the naivety of some of its colleagues when they speak. I would like to return to what happened in the first period of time about the problems that have been solved in the past. Let me take a look at Mr Omtzigt, who reminded me of that. So acid rain was really a big problem in the 1980s. That was not solved at the time by a friendly conversation with each other, but by a real hard struggle by people who had a heart for the cause and the emissions at the source have been dealt with. Even then, angry farmers blocked measuring stations and eventually tied them in. Maybe that's especially a reason for VVD and CDA to bite through this sour apple. And if we increase the excise duty on diesel enough, then the misery of the tractor republic will stop, I say especially to VVD and CDA. Mr. Chairman. The hole in the ozone layer was also a real problem, but that too has been resolved for the time being by hard action and joint efforts. The Montreal Protocol, a kind of Paris agreement on the ozone layer, ultimately led to a drastic reduction in the use of CFCs. That too has not gone unpunished. The American fossil industry lobbied President Reagan not to sign the protocol, but eventually it did. In short, problems from the past that the CDA said yesterday "Well, we solved that, didn't we?', have always been solved by fighting hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u287	Just for history, so to speak. It is very strange to note that the problem would have been solved by that hard struggle. That struggle was there, but it was constantly found by those people that not enough was happening. So it's really weird when the environmental movement at the time said "not enough is happening" and you're saying "ha, it's solved!'. The second is the so-called acid rain. I remember it very well. I was also told as a child by the teachers that if I were grown up, there would be no more tree. Well, in the Netherlands there may not be so many trees, but in the rest of the world it is greener than ever, there are more trees than ever. As far as history is concerned, that is not because of the commitment of the environmental movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u288	I have not heard a question, but I almost heard Mr Mulder admit that there are almost no trees left. I liked that that was said. You will continue your speech, the President would say. I see him nodding, so that's what I'm gonna do. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased to see that the Secretary of State is aware of the fact that economic growth, as we know it today, cannot be the way in which we must organise the economy in the future. I'm just looking at him in the eye. We agree, and I'm glad. But I do have a motion for encouragement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Climate and Energy Exploratory 2019 shows that the Dutch CO reduction is significantly disappointing partly due to high economic growth;]] [[Whereas policies aimed at economic growth without decoupling between growth and CO emissions will, by definition, lead to increased CO emissions;]] [[calls on the government to give priority to reducing CO emissions over achieving economic growth, at least as long as growth and CO emissions are not decoupled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u289	Mr. Chairman. We would like the Netherlands not only to take the lead in the implementation of the European Commission's plans. We also want the government to be a little more chasing the European Commission, not least in order to prevent the chair dance in Brussels from implementing the necessary import charges. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that certain countries go further in implementing climate policy than other countries;]] [[Whereas the European market is open to non-European companies which, due to inadequate climate policies, can produce at lower costs in their own country;]] [[Considering that a European CO border levy reduces the risk of CO leakage and thereby greatly helps European countries' climate policies;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative for a CO border levy and to send a plan of action to the Chamber and the European Commission as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u290	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u291	Then Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u292	Mr President, if you think I was expecting high tide, that is not the case. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the written answers on the life-cycle scheme, because they could answer a lot of questions that had reached us as 50PLUS and help a lot of people make better choices in the modified life-cycle scheme. But in general, given the course of this debate, I must say that I share Mr Nijboer's pessimism somewhat more. Because a debate must also be a dialogue. For the time being, at least in my view, this debate has shown too little of the image of a dialogue in which parties may be persuaded. In any case, you have succeeded in convincing me of one thing, namely that a motion on the bpm does not make much sense because of its complexity. I had decided not to change it and to maintain the bpm of 2017 in 2020. I understand that there are a number of technical problems, but I would like to promise the Secretary of State that if the bill is really drawn up on 1 July 2020, we will look very closely at the extent to which all the promises made have been made. Because for us, it's about policy effectiveness. I also have to say to Mr Sneller, I mean Sneller, but this also applies to Mr Sneller, that I am a little disappointed that he did not start with Article 3.1 when it comes to the effectiveness of all the climate measures included in it. Because there are a number of measures on this subject, which are very doubtful whether they are as effective as is proposed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u293	Mr. Snels, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u294	I'm gonna have to correct this. Both in the written examination of all legislative proposals and in the legislative consultation, I have started a number of times on Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. So I did my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u295	Very good, it's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u296	But that does not apply to the plenary part. Again, it's about effectiveness. Then box three. I must say that I still have serious doubts about the distribution, as it should be applied next year. The aim is to prevent people from appealing or objecting to the levy. But for that the difference between the actual interest rate and the assumption that applies to the other part is too large, that people then have to have in shares. I am afraid there will be a problem there. That is why I tabled an amendment which raised the limit. This is not meant as a permanent measure but as a bridging measure to reduce the number of objections significantly. I call on my fellow Members to take a good look at that amendment, because that will, in my view, make it easier to raise objections. Mr. Chairman. The landlord levy is often referred to as a crisis measure. You'd almost think it was a crisis measure to solve the crisis in the housing market, but the opposite is true. So any proposal that will pass here to use the landlord's levy to resolve the crisis in the housing market will be supported. Finally, resuming. It's still a crazy tax plan. The Tax Plan pretends that we are dealing with high unemployment and that people all need to be stimulated to get to work. That is why we have a high employment discount, when unemployment has never been so low. Throughout the plan, this is argued from the income development of people. But this is done by the companies, not by applying relief measures. We must apply relief here because the ratio between wealth and ordinary incomes is distorted. It is a very strange plan in the light of the current economic situation. I started by saying, it's your party. That is also why we have increased the old-age discount and want to reduce it less quickly. Because we think that at your party, which is mainly a party for people who work and who can get more, older people are put in the corner somewhere with a very small glass of lawyer, with the idea that they will be satisfied with it. No, old people just want to be part of it. There doesn't have to be as much drink as for the workers, but we just want to participate in the party in the Netherlands, and not just with that very small glass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u297	The party is closed by Mr. Stoffer. He speaks on behalf of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u298	Mr. President, I wish it were one of those parties. Anyway, I'll raise the joy of celebration by starting with three motions. The first one is about the spearhead that the SGP actually brings into every financial debate. We persist until it is different, namely the gap between the one- and the two-earner. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the difference in tax burden between one and two-earners has increased in recent years and is not expected to decrease in 2020;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the gap in the tax burden between one and two earners should be reduced;]] [[having noted that since 2009, the transferable general tax rebate for the least-earning partner has been phased out, allowing for only 20% of the overall tax rebate to be transferred by 2020;]] [[Whereas this measure widens the gap in the tax burden between one and two-earners;]] [[calls on the government to freeze the portability of the general tax rebate from next year on the current rate of 26.67%, with coverage being sought in the austerity of the high-income childcare allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u299	Mr. Chairman. My next motion is about box 3. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to base the capital efficiency levy on actual return as soon as possible;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Finance has recently made a proposal to adjust the capital efficiency levy, which is linked (as far as possible) to the actual return;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that this new proposal be introduced as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to implement the new system as from 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u300	Mr. Chairman. Then there's my third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that KPMG concluded that the BPM increase by WLTP hits more modest segments A and B relatively hard;]] [[whereas the burden is thus likely to be borne by the narrower fellowship group or those who deliberately opt for a small car;]] [[whereas budget neutrality is a good starting point for the introduction of WLTP and should in any case be reflected in cars of equal weight and volume, which should not be affected by the introduction of WLTP;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the bpm for identical and equal cars in the A and B segment did not exceed the bpm before 1 September 2017 due to the introduction of WLTP in July 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u301	Mr. Chairman. At the end of this debate and my second term I would like to say that, when we look at the whole of the Tax Plan, we are really not very dissatisfied. There's a tax plan that looks pretty good with all ifs and buts. But what I do notice in the debate is that I do not see much movement from the cabinet. I find this particularly regrettable because I feel that in some cases the system is being looked at more than at how it now lands with people and businesses. Hence my motions, and hence my amendment on the ODE levy and, in particular, on its implementation in the third disc, which raises the energy charge for greenhouse horticulture companies, water boards, academic hospitals and so on. I can't explain that. I don't think it's fair, I don't think it's fair, but I can't explain it either. What I see in concrete terms is that in the coming year there will be tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of euros per company. Then the first argument is that the reserve must be built up. I understand that, but I can do that a little later. Filled jars will come eventually. I have looked again at the other argument of the EMU balance. This will continue to be completed when my amendment is implemented at 0.2% next year. I am talking about an amendment for a year, so it still fits perfectly within our budgetary rules. I'm going to say this to GroenLinks. This is really going to work, with me, with the companies. I do not see much movement on this amendment so far. If there's no movement on this, I'm really giving the Secretary of State the room to see if there's movement in it until we vote. Our group is expressly considering voting against this part of the Tax Plan, the Tax Measures Act Climate Agreement. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u302	It's been noted. Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I understand that Mr Snels has a service announcement for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u303	Mr President, as far as your accounting is concerned, I would like to draw your Amendment No 2. 8 (35255) in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u304	The Snels amendment (Doc. 8 (35255) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u305	I call the Secretary of State. I hope that we will be able to go through the motions and amendments briefly and pointily. We'll be outside soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u306	Thank you, Mr President. As at the beginning of my first term, let me thank the Chamber for all the questions that have been asked and for sometimes waiting endlessly for concrete answers, while the team was preparing both amendments and motions. I always appreciate the desire to co-operate and the retention of several Members to go on for a while. From time to time we really come to something different than we initially thought. I really think, and continue to think so, that a lengthy discussion about many legislative proposals in this Chamber always makes sense in the end. It always makes sense, because opinions are not fixed forever. It's good that if you're standing for something, you're trying to carry it out at the same time. I very much appreciated the discussion and thank Members for it. I heard 25 hours, but I think we've already crossed the 30-hour deadline. After you drop the sledgehammer so late, it's not quite over. As you know, when you wake up tomorrow morning, I will gladly send you a letter, at least before the start of the vote. It is an appreciation letter in which I am doing what I am doing very quickly, just a little more precisely: all the amendments and motions that have been tabled clearly provide my opinion. It can be very helpful to have the overview before you vote. Nevertheless, I shall now turn briefly to the amendments and motions tabled in the whole package. A number of amendments have been tabled to the Tax Plan to cover budgetary amendments in budgetary discussions for other departments. I will also comment on them, because this is the moment when they are submitted. If I have counted correctly, I come to 25 amendments. I will not go through them entirely with my appreciation, because we have discussed many of these amendments before in a discussion. I will refer briefly to a part of that debate and I hope that people will understand where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u307	Moreover, we came to 26 amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u308	That could be very good. We're gonna count. If I forget one, I'll find out. I will start with the Tax Plan 2020 bill and the Amendment to item No. 5. This is about removing the reduction in the high rate of corporation tax, which means that the rate remains at 25%. This is very much in line with the debate we have had on burden-sharing and what we wanted for it. In view of the discussion, I would logically advise against this amendment. The authors were Mr Asscher and Mr Nijboer. I would like to move on to an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer to point No. 16 to reduce the transfer tax for obtaining a first home to 0% to accommodate start-ups and at the same time increase the transfer tax to 6% for obtaining a third home or more. We discussed this during the legislative consultation. I would advise against this amendment. At the moment, I am investigating whether such a measure, about 0%, makes sense and whether you can define it. I am investigating whether this can be done in an efficient, effective and feasible manner. This is what I said in the motion by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes. I really need to see what's coming out of that before I can move on with that. For this reason, and also because of the coverage, I do not recommend this amendment. Nor is the amendment feasible. Maybe that's the most important reason. Then I come to an amendment tabled by Mr Kwint. He wants to raise the bank tax by 1 billion. That is not a choice that we would make, and that is why I would advise against the amendment. Then I have an amendment by Mr Stoffers, Mr Snels, Mr Bishop and Mr Westerveld, which raises the rate of gambling tax to cover the budget of OCW. This is such a cover amendment. I should also advise against this amendment. It goes against the gaming policy that we have established and also against the demand to channel gambling to the legal supply. If you raise the rates, the legal offer becomes a lot less attractive compared to the illegal gaming offer. In doing so, we are avoiding the policy of channeling. That is why we consider it unwise to increase this further. The judgment is therefore dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u309	For my administration, it would help if the Secretary of State mentioned the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u310	Sorry, yeah, the number. From this last one or from Kwint? I'm gonna work with a double administration. The first amendment tabled by Asscher/Nijboer is No. 5. I don't need to mention the other song because it's part of the bill. Then I come to the Nijboer amendment to item No. 16. The third amendment is by Mr Kwint in respect of item No. 18. The fourth on gambling tax is the amendment by Stoffer, Snels, Bishop and Westerveld to piece No. 24. I now come to Mr Nijboer's amendment to item No. 25. It provides that the proposed tax reduction for the new construction of cheap rental homes will apply to each municipality as from 1 January 2020. That is also what we discussed in the debate. The budget of the structural tax reduction for the new building is used. The increased opening-up creates a more available budget, which could lead to an earlier exhaustion of the budget and a temporary closure of the tax reduction. For this reason, I also advise against this amendment. Then I come to Mr Snels' amendment to item No. 27 on the unlimited non-deductible interest payable in the Earnings stripping measures. He wants to limit it to three years. We also said something about this in the debate. I explained at that time why I might have understood that analytically, but for another reason we are not sure because we are already going beyond the minimum in that directive. It is therefore also formally my opinion that I am against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u311	For the CDA group's consideration, we would like to know what this amendment is doing for housing corporations, not only in the short term, but also in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u312	The amendment leads to a budgetary revenue of 10 million in 2024, 21 million in 2025 and 31 million in structural terms from 2026.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u313	I understand that, but we would like to know how much of that goes back, even if the temporary measure falls away from the housing corporations. Then what happens to the money? We find that quite interesting to hear. You can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u314	I think it's just going back to the budget as a whole. I do not see any reason to believe that it is not, so I think that goes back as a whole to the increase in the budget for the reduction of taxes on new construction. I come to the amendment to item No. 28 by Mr Nijboer. This amendment re-opens the scheme for reduction of landlord charges for shrinkage areas to investors and investments made after 1 January 2020. Budgetary use is made of the budget which regulates structural tax reductions for new buildings. The increased opening-up will once again increase the use of the available budget, which could lead to previous budget exhaustion and temporary closure. That is actually the same kind of reasoning we saw in Mr Nijboer's previous amendment. I really think it's unwise and undesirable to leave the focus completely out and divide it over too large groups. The proposed new construction measure must be at the highest level where the scarcity is also greatest. Dilution was the reason why we would find that an unwise exit. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendment to item No. 29 by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Beckerman, who had a limited return on the landlord's tax, a reduction in the rate of the landlord's tax and an increase in a corporate tax rate. The reduction in that landlord's tax would result in a loss of 500 million. It would then be compensated by increasing the rates of the profit tax in the years concerned. We have already proposed a reduction in the tax on new buildings in the landlord's tax. This also leaves financial scope for additional investment in the coming years. As a result of the Ronnes motion, research has already been carried out into the task and resources of housing corporations. It also looks at what is needed in the long term, including policy options, including the necessary financial incentives. That is why we must also discourage this amendment. Better alternatives are available. Mr. Chairman. We come to the amendment to item No. 30 by Mr Nijboer. That replaced the amendment in part No. 23, if I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u315	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u316	This regulates an increase in the top rate in box 1 of income tax compared to the top rate in the bill, to 51,75%. It would then go back to lowering the basic rate. We have also discussed this before. That is not the choice we are making here. That's where we deliberately made another choice. That is why we would like to discourage this amendment. The amendment is, moreover, feasible, because it would be a tariff adjustment. Mr Nijboer does not have much use for it, but it is a viable amendment. We advise against it for policy reasons. I come to Mr Van Otterloo, to his amendment to item No. 32. This takes the first disk of box 3 fully into account in the future. To this end, he sought budgetary cover in an increase in the Vpb tariff. The cost of this change is 650 million. This is going wrong for a number of reasons, I think. It is a fairly large adjustment, which we would not propose in the coverage either. Also in the current system, declaring the first part as a savings part is not easy, so that is also not easy to do in terms of law and implementation. I really think that our proposal, which we are going to discuss with the Chamber, does much more justice, especially to savers and especially to small savers. They will not be directly affected by a box 3 charge. Anyway, I got the idea and thought it was a creative solution to try it like that, but we really don't think that's gonna work. That is why we wanted to discourage this amendment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 33 by Mr Nijboer. I believe that we are still in the Tax Plan with that. Mr Nijboer wants stricter standards for the thincap regime for banks and insurers. The interest rate reduction would then fall to another capital rate of the balance sheet total. That was a structural sum of 185 million. He would also like to spend that amount on a reduction in the tax in the landlord's levy. In the government agreement, we agreed to exclude the tax interest of banks and insurers from deduction, in so far as that debt would cover more than 92% of the balance sheet total. This 92% comes from the Study Group on Sustainable Growth. I imagine you'd say, "Every percentage is, in principle, arbitrary." But the cabinet has seen no reason to deviate from the standard mentioned in the coalition agreement. If we did that, it would also lead to an additional cost increase of 185 million. We would not choose to do that either. So I advise against this amendment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 35 by Mr Van Otterloo. As of 1 January 2020, it will provide for a €200 policy increase in the elderly discount and a reduction in the phasing-out rate from 15% to 5%. The cover for this is found in the abolition of LIV. This cabinet has already increased the elderly discount, not in this Tax Plan but earlier in the reigning period. It has also introduced a phasing-out rate. That was in the Tax Plan 2018. In conjunction with the tax reliefs currently planned, the Cabinet considers that a balanced purchasing power picture has been created, including for older people. Moreover, the amendment is not fully covered. Firstly, the abolition of LIV is available at the earliest by 2024. Secondly, this coverage covers a measure under the revenue framework with a measure under the expenditure framework. That is a bit technical, but for that reason too it will not be possible to carry out this. This amendment, too, has therefore been dissuaded. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 36 by Ronnes, Dik-Faber, Koerhuis, Van Eijs and Smeulders, on the extension in the scope of the tax reduction for new construction and on the differentiation of the amount. This is in line with the discussion we had on the landlord tax. The structural tax reduction budget for new construction is used here. Widening the opening-up will increase the use of the available budget, which could lead to an earlier exhaustion. But the good thing about this amendment is that, in essence, the budget intended for new construction in scarcity areas can also be used in other areas in the Netherlands, but that the reduction in the levy by the differentiation of the amount at least keeps the focus on the scarcity areas. That was exactly what we thought it was important to keep it going. That is what is happening in this amendment, and that is why we are giving this amendment judgment to the Chamber. Then, very recently, an amendment was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, in part No. 51. It concerns something that was mentioned at the end of the first period and at the beginning of the second period, namely the number of entrepreneurs that had not yet reported for this occasional compensation scheme in 2019. I said at the time that we had a proposal to do something about it, but Mr Omtzigt said that he would prefer to settle it legally for another six months. An amendment was needed for this, and that has now been made. The amendment is sound and has no budgetary consequences as it is designed, so I can give the Chamber's opinion. I now come to the amendments to OFM (35303). There are fewer of them, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 10, by Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Lodders, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg, on the need for exceptions to the choice system. We have talked about this; on that I give judgment Chamber. Then I have an amendment to part No. 12 by Mrs Leijten on the introduction of a reporting obligation for the offender. He has to report to his website within three months. Of that part, we said we find it complicated. The amendment has no budgetary effect, but I have indicated for what other reasons we did not consider this reporting obligation to be the best. That is why we must reject this amendment. The next amendment, namely that in part No. 13, extends the measure of disclosure of a fine to the withholding tax Act 2021. That too is a sound budget. In essence, I have reacted to this before, and I now have to do so formally. I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the amendment comes to part No. 14 by Mrs Lodders. This is about tightening up the tonnage arrangements. This amendment therefore provides for a slight relaxation in one of these tightenings. We talked about that. The amendment as such has no budgetary effect, so here too it is within the rules that the Commission gives for this. I just said a little bit more about that. I would also like to give a ruling on this amendment. Then I come to the amendments to the Tax Measures Act Climate Agreement (35304). I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Leijten and Mr Beckerman on the reversal of the increase in the energy tax on natural gas in the first disc. This leads to a budgetary loss. It is covered in the energy tax rates for the second, third and fourth discs. In the Climate Agreement, we made a very conscious assessment of the distribution between these discs. It is different from what is proposed in this amendment. It is therefore not in line with the agreements we have made with the sector and others. I would therefore advise against the amendment. The amendment in part No. 10 also belongs to Leijten and Beckerman and increases the energy reduction in the energy tax. This is actually the same thing. In the Tax Plan, we made a decision to do something with it. Here the tax relief is further increased. We would not be in favour of this because here again the cover is sought in a further increase in the second, third and fourth discs. So it's also dissuaded. Then I come to an amendment by Mr Stoffer on the ODE levy on electricity. In the third and fourth disc he wants it to rise to €0.01 instead of the intended increase. Budgetaryly, that leads to a loss of 382 million. The proposal to cover this loss from the budget reserve means that these resources will still have to be collected at a later date. It's not like this is money that's left. The resources in the budget reserve are needed for the government's plans for the 49% CO reduction, as we agreed. I have had a debate on it before and I know that Mr Stoffer has really been looking intensively for a convenient way to do it. We have participated in this search with him, but in the end I think it would be unwise to do so by means of balance financing. The search may not be complete yet, but as it stands, we will really have to discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u317	That is the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u318	Sorry, that was indeed the amendment to item No. 11. The amendment in part No. 12 had been tabled by Mr Mulder. It concerns the reduction of the ODE 2020 as a result of the cessation of subsidies for biomass via the SDE funds. The proposed reduction in tariffs leads to a budgetary loss of 730 million. The amendment does not provide for this loss to be covered. It is also not possible to stop current greenhouse gas expenditure on biomass, because we are currently legally obliged to do so. Unfortunately, therefore, the amendment is not entirely sound in financial terms. That's why I have to advise against it. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 13 by Mrs Leijten and Mr Laçin. That replaces the amendment in part No. 8. The tax advantages for zero emission vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles under bpm, mrb and income tax and the addition should be abolished and the legally limited increase in diesel excise duty would not be allowed. This amendment is really not in line with the Climate Agreement and the agreements we have made in it. Moreover, the measures are not feasible, as they stand today. So we must at least discourage this amendment for a number of reasons. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 8 to the Tax Deduction Tax Expenditure Act (35306) submitted by Omtzigt, Lodders, Bruins and Van Weyenberg. This was a preliminary procedure for the entry into force of the Law on the abolition of tax deduction of training expenditure. We've talked about this before. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then we come to Leijten and Beckerman's amendment to part No. 9 to the Implementation Act 2nd EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, the so-called ATAD (35241). This amendment replaces that in part No. 5. This was about including the exception for housing corporations in the Earnings Stripping measure from ATAD. We've talked about this a lot. We also explained why that exception was not possible. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. Then I come to the DAC 6 directive, Room 35255. The amendment in part No. 8 has fallen, I think, if I am right. However, I still have the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u319	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u320	Yeah, that's right. So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u321	Compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u322	That amendment belonged to Mr Snels. The aim was to state, without doubt, that it was not necessary for the application of the main benefit test... Well, that this was found artificially. We talked about that, so I can be brief about this. Here, I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber. Those were the amendments. Then I have motions to answer. I just need to try and keep my paperwork in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u323	Yes, it is true that we are through the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u324	Were there 26, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u325	I thought so, yeah. You're making us doubt it. Otherwise, we'll call you tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u326	I'll take a sip. I hope I have everything here. Isn't this where I can just call the number that's at the top? I'll start with the motion in part No. Mr Wilders and Mr Mulder on the Sharia Declaration and the proposal to tax the OIC countries. We don't recommend that motion. I also felt that this motion contained surprisingly few fiscal points. Nevertheless, I would like to discourage the motion. Then we have the motion in part no. 40 by Mr Mulder. He's asking the government for the bpm... Let's see. The motion calls on the government to abolish the subsidy for the plug cars and to use this money to reduce the bpm. We have actually explained in detail why we don't think this is a good idea. We do like to help plug cars a little bit, just as long as they manage on their own. It may be clear that for that reason I am deceiving this motion. Then the motion to part No. 41. It invites the government to increase the VAT on messages and to use the high Vpb rate as cover for that purpose. That's not even a full cover, I'm just saying. The motion is therefore not technically sound either. But even if the motion had been, I would not have recommended it, because I do not think this is a good motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 42 on the ODE. That motion actually asked us to pay even more attention to greenhouse horticulture and to ensure, for example, that it can rely on the SDE+ scheme and also that we monitor its consequences. In short, we have talked a lot about this motion. I think I'd like to pass the judgment on that right away to the Chamber. Indeed, at the moment, that possibility is being looked at, as I just said. With the Minister of LNV and the sector, we will see if additional climate funds can benefit greenhouse horticulture. So I thought this was a good motion. I was happy to give it to the Court of Justice. I'm at the motion in part No. 43, but if I do it wrong, I'd like to hear it, Mr. Chairman. That motion was about an investigation into the global balance. We talked about this in the discussion about box 1 and box 2. In my view, this is a very clear motion, which calls for a closer look at it. I have already said that this will probably come back extensively in the building blocks. So I would also like to give the judgment Chamber on this. The same applies to the motion in part No. 44 by Mrs Lodders on travel expenses. It states that travel to and from work looks really different than in the past and that the remuneration has not been indexed for some time. The motion asks to examine whether this is necessary, in relation to other forms of modernisation and more sustainable mobility behaviour. That seems to me to be a very good research question, so I would also like to give the judgment to your Chamber. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 45. That is also a monitoring motion, about ATAD2 and the administrative obligation. That's what we've been talking about for a long time. I'm actually sharing everything that's written here. It is therefore not so difficult to say that we would like to return the judgment to the Chamber. I think it's a very viable and useful motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 46. That motion is actually a follow-up to an earlier amendment, with which I almost got an obligation. Fortunately, however, I have read the motion and I am able to give a ruling to the Chamber because I am primarily working with the Commission and have to inform you of it. I think that's wise. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 47. I have to say that I was not asked to do so. The motion was not addressed to me or the cabinet either, but to the Chamber itself. So I think it would be wise not to give a ruling on this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 48. This calls again for the independent testing of the conversion of NEDC 1 to NEDC 2 and the other conversion, including the conversion for the ten most sold cars. You will understand that I have called for an independent investigation before. There has been a study on the transition from NEDC 1 to NEDC 2. That question was still open from the first term. TNO concluded that the transition was budgetaryly neutral. I'd check it out. The CPB subsequently certified this after an independent investigation, including at that other transition. The CPB indicated that the macro was reasonable and neutral. There is, of course, no budgetary neutrality at the level of individual cars. I have also explained why that is. That is true for all kinds of reasons. The same applies to the macro yield of the bpm itself. For all kinds of reasons, they can go down or up, such as more or less cars or a shift from clean to dirty and vice versa. So I must advise against this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 49, on the Climate Agreement. This concerns the progress monitor and positive and negative effects. This motion was a bit complicated, because it quite precisely calls for a breakdown of costs and effects per individual measure, whereas we learn from the planning agency that many of these measures lead to CO effects, and that you should therefore consider it not only individually, but also as a package. However, if I may read the motion a little as much as it asks to indicate as well as possible what these measures are doing, both in terms of budget and in terms of CO effects, then we can do it. But the moment you do it by measure, the planning agency says, that we need to understand the CO effects, that it's complicated, because measures always have to be looked at in conjunction. But on balance, I would have liked to link the Court's judgment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u327	That is why the phrase on side effects was added. A side effect in electric driving, for example, is that it can be quieter or less polluting. In biomass plants, there may be a little more particulate emissions. A side effect may also be that it has a positive effect together with another measure. So that can be put into that, because I realise that some measures do something with each other and some of them work against each other. But I'd be happy to do so by measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u328	Fine. If I may interpret it that way, it seems to me to be doing well and I give the motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 50 on the undesirable flow and the withholding load. The request is to prevent us from being in the top five. I share the ambition expressed in the motion. By the way, I didn't think we'd end up at number fourteen, because that was in all kinds of scenarios. The planning agency said that in one of those scenarios about the withholding tax we would be in place number fourteen. Anyway, at least I intend to monitor the effect of that withholding tax. I've promised a letter about that before and... Well, I'd like to make this motion as well. Then I come to the motion on part No. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. I know that under the law SZW is responsible for the childcare allowance and its claim. SZW knows that wish lives, but I will refer it to SZW one more time. I don't know if that motion is for me right now... I imagine you're holding the motion for the moment that you have a conversation with the Secretary of State there. If Mr Alkaya now wishes to hear my judgment and to know what I would do, then I must advise against the motion. But I can imagine him saying, "I'm gonna keep it on." Then I have no judgment and that motion will be dealt with by SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u329	Fine, Mr. Chairman. Then we'll hold him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u330	At the request of Mr Alkaya, I propose his motion (35302, No. 52). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u331	Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 53 on the low VAT rate for electronic expenditure. This is also a monitoring motion, because it is actually said: let us ensure that new and future innovative forms do not suffer; can you continue to look at this? That seems to me to be a good request, and that makes it a fine motion. I would therefore like to return Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Middendorp to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 54 on the withholding tax. The request is for an impact measurement to be carried out by 2023 at the latest. We've talked about this extensively before. I can be brief on this: I would like to give this motion a ruling Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Alkaya on capital taxes. The request is to examine whether we can't do anything more for higher taxes on assets over a million. Can't we see if we can do something more for that? I believe that it is also right that such matters should be looked at, for example in the building block note. Here again, I thought it would be good to give the motion judgment Chamber. Then I'll be in the motion at piece number one. 56 on the CO-reducing measures in the Tax Measures Act and the relationship with the measures we take for source policy. In short, that is a very sensible motion, and I am therefore happy to give it to the Chamber. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 57, which calls for CO reduction to be given priority over economic growth. That is a motion by Mr Van Raan. We have already talked about this in the first period. In fact, we hope that one day we will find ourselves in a kind of growth and thriving society in which they can both thrive and grow. We are not yet, and we must do our best to do so, but this motion is a little too far. Mr Van Raan will therefore understand that I must discourage that motion. The motion in part No. 58 also belongs to Mr Van Raan. That motion is a teaser, because he is actually asking the government to take the initiative for a CO-frontier tax. I said that, when we talk about it in Europe, I want to belong to the leading countries, so that we can also think with it and decide how and what. But it would really be ineffective to go too far ahead and say: we are now going to take the initiative in the Netherlands and then broaden it. The Commission has already announced the initiative, and I think that is the most important. In the discussion that will follow, the Netherlands will also play a role, but that is different from taking the initiative as a government. So this motion went a little far and that's why I have to dissuade her. But as far as the underlying ideas are concerned, I hope Mr Van Raan was not dissatisfied with my promised role in the European debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u332	Show your satisfaction, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u333	I'm happy to show my satisfaction. Will it be any different if the Netherlands does not develop this initiative itself, then go to Europe, but takes the initiative in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u334	This initiative can only be taken by the Commission. That's actually my point. The Commission has already done so. So it's already there. The Commission has the right of initiative and it submits it. Then we'll all discuss it together. I think it is important that we look at this with as many countries as possible. I would also like to play a role in this discussion. I have said that we are positively curious. So that's what I'll do. At least I made that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u335	The motion in part No. 59.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u336	The motion in part No. 59 is about the difference between the one and two earners. Mr Stoffer and I have already discussed this on a number of occasions. We have also talked on a number of occasions about the fact that, in the end, the cabinet thinks it is wise that it should not go further. But this is really working a different direction. Even if you look at the measures mentioned, for example on the portability of the tax rebate, I do not think that this is something we would like to propose. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. Then Mr Stoffer asked me in the motion in part No. 60 to make every effort to implement the new plans we have as of 1 January 2021. I appreciate Mr Stoffer's enthusiasm and energy. Yeah, I got it, too. At the same time, I have already explained to him, as has the rest of the Chamber, why I really do not think that is possible. Just dropping the legislation, making the preparations and getting the implementation ready. That's really not gonna work. The most ambitious timetable we have now, if all goes well, is a year later. Unfortunately, therefore, it is not possible, and I must also advise against this motion. The latter also applies to the last motion, which in part No. 61, over the bpm. The aim is to ensure that the bpm for small identical cars should not be higher by 2020 than in 2017. This motion is not only uncovered because, of course, there is a different basis in 2017 than in 2020, but also because the WLTP conversion had to be macro-budgetary neutral by 2020. Moreover, it is actually impossible to guarantee a WLTP conversion at micro level, i.e. for specific cars. That is because, as I explained earlier today, several cars with identical NEDC emissions may have different emissions at the time you measure them with the WLTP. Since you did it differently in 2017 than in 2020, it is unfortunately not possible. Mr President, I believe that I have included the 22nd motion for a resolution in my comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u337	Yes, then you have reviewed all 26 amendments and 22 motions. Only one question has come from the Chamber. I've been through a lot rougher than that, but the better. Thank you very much for that. This is the conclusion of, what is it, between 25 and 30 hours that you have been with us on this subject. Thank you very much for that. You've made your hours, I'll say. Does the Secretary of State at the end still need a small, formal, warm, interhuman word to close this, what is it, 25 to 30 hours, or does he say: hammer the place but close?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u338	Mr President, you say it as if there was a need for it. I didn't prepare a speech, but of course I do. From day one, we are going through huge, huge policy packages with each other, with the 2018 Tax Plan, 2019 and 2020. That's partly technical, and it's really complicated. I have a much bigger staff for that than the MPs have. But the level of the debate and also the questions is really high over and over again. I also believe, seriously and truly, that discussing these measures is important; I say this in the direction of everyone. I think that what Mr Omtzig mentioned earlier is also true: we must be careful that we sometimes do not rush too much. Let me at least have the intention, for my part, to really try to give a quicker insight into what we have in next year's legislative programme. For all the important proposals in taxation, we may be able to spend a little more than 25 to 30 hours together, but a little more spread over time. I think that's important. I have already shared this with your Chamber in a legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u339	You are always welcome with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u340	I therefore thank you and your Chamber for all its attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u341	A brief word from Mr Omtzig.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u342	Thank you for that. I have one more question to answer. It is about keeping a close eye on what is happening in the waste sector and, if necessary, consulting the sector to see what is possible at the border. We do not want massive imports of waste from Italy, we do not have to make it difficult at all. But where there are border cooperations, you must keep a close eye on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u343	Absolutely. I said on this at first reading that I know that the Minister who is discussing it was not only discussing it but also going to pursue it, in order to ensure that we have a better understanding of what it can mean. I thought that was in this minister's letter, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-8.u345	Tomorrow we will vote on all these eight laws, on all the amendments and on all the motions. That's what we're gonna do tomorrow. Thank you again to the Secretary of State for his presence. So much for the deliberations. I will close the meeting on 13 November.
