ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Belhaj on behalf of D66 for her question to the Minister of Education, Culture and Science, who is now also in trade-K, about musicians who play free at lunch concerts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you. I've been in the Chamber for three years now, I've done several speeches, I've been a Defence Spokesman for some time, but I've also been a Cultural Spokesman. This is the first time I have talked about this and it is a pleasure, as I have worked in it for a very long time. But it's not about me, it's about someone else. Her name is Femke IJlstra. She went into action because she was tired of playing for free at lunch concerts. This includes lunch concerts that are free for visitors. In many halls, also very large, musicians are not paid anything for that. The piano tuner, the ward and the technicians, on the other hand, are paid, and I would say luckily. Several artists soon joined Femke IJlstra's action. The Platform for Freelance Musicians suddenly received new members every day. She gets support from colleagues all over the country. The Platform for Freelance Musicians, which stands up for the position ofzzp'ers in music, receives daily new registrations. We hear through Trouw that the founder of the platform, Dorine Schoon, indicates that the counter is over 1,300 members. My compliments to those musicians for standing up for yourself. Culture exercise at a professional level requires a professional approach and is not a hobby. That's why the Fair Practice Code has been there since 2017. My question to the Minister is what she thinks of Femke IJlstra's plea and the Platform for Freelance Musicians. Does the Minister share D66's view that artists are entitled to fair payment and that the Fair Practice Code should be applied as much as possible? Mr. Chairman. Arts '92, the association for art, culture and heritage, also believes that serious attention should be paid to the labour market agenda for the cultural and creative sectors, including the media. My question is therefore how the Minister intends to deal with this. Does she want this to be made a condition for institutions receiving cultural funds? Question four: Is the Minister prepared to make money available for the Fair Practice Code for the next cultural period, since there is no point in advocating it but then not providing the funds, and thus providing better remuneration for workers in the cultural sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, honest work requires fair remuneration, including in the cultural sector. It is therefore only logical that there should be paid for performances by professional musicians. In the coming years, I will also be working with you to improve the remuneration of workers in the cultural sector. I also mentioned this in my policy letter of last year 'Culture in an open society'. Better remuneration for workers in the cultural sector requires a cultural change from everyone, including those who hire musicians from stages. Mrs Belhaj asks: what are you going to do with it and what are you going to do with the Fair Practice Code in the new culture period? For me, this fair wage is a very important starting point, even in that new period. Therefore, the Fair Practice Code will also be a grant condition for the state-funded institutions. I'll come back later this spring with my letter of principle. In it you will find the details. And of course you have to add butter to the fish; I understand that too, and that is going to cost money. I would also like to refer to the amount of this sum. You also mentioned the Labour Market Agenda. Of course, this is about a broader agenda than just the Fair Practice Code. We support the sector in further developing the Labour Market Agenda as set out, among other things, by Kunsten '92. We are also talking to the director group about its further development. In the meantime, we're not sitting still. You also know that, following Mrs Ellemeet's and Mrs Bergkamp's previous motion, I made sure that extra funding would also be available for musicians playing in ensembles for the years 2019 and 2020. In addition, forzzp'ers who play with the orchestras there is the rempplaçant-cao. It was recently renewed. I think that orchestras should adhere to that collective agreement. So even if you hire azzp'er to replace him, he deserves to be paid according to that collective agreement. Finally, the Platform for Freelance Musicians. That's what the article in Trouw is really about. It is nice that founder Dorine Schoon and Femke IJlstra get so much follow-up and support. And at the moment, in connection with the Ellemeet/Asscher motion, I am exploring the need for new collective agreements in the different sub-sectors of culture, and we are considering whether we should come up with separate OCW legislation for collective bargaining opportunities forzzp's in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm sorry, Minister, your speaking time is up. I call Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I see the positive tone in the Minister's speech and reply, but it is, of course, ultimately in the evidence that will be delivered later. Because D66 thinks that accessibility of culture is important, but there is no culture without artists. They deserve a fair wage for the work they do. Big venues use the argument that it is an honor for musicians to play on a beautiful stage and for a full room. But according to D66, that's a bullshit argument. Musicians deserve the respect to be paid and approached as professionals. Because with a great honor, you can't pay rent and run errands. Musicians should not be the final piece of the budget, but the showpiece. It is therefore good to hear what the Minister is going to do about it, but I also think that this should be the place for all the big stages to just pay their people decently. Mr. Chairman. There are only two questions left for me to ask the Minister. It points out that it wants to free up the funds and see whether there is a need for legal possibilities to enforce the creation of a collective agreement. My question is then how do we deal with the fact that in different municipalities the Fair Practice Code may not be made a condition? Now I do not think that we should impose that from the Lower House, but it seems logical to me that the Minister would like to discuss this with the local authorities. My question is therefore: is the Minister prepared to do so? And finally, the next important question. Of course, there are thousands of professional musicians in this country. Now an action has emerged, after all the attention of various political parties to which the Minister refers. But is she also willing to have a conversation with the Platform for Freelance Musicians, to hear how they experience and see all this themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	The answer to that last question is yes, and those conversations are already taking place. Of course, it's a bit strange when big stages say: musicians must be honored to be able to play here. I would like to say the other way around: the stages must also be honoured that we have good professional musicians who want to play there. So that's not an argument. Moreover, these large stages but also the smaller stages are often subsidised by municipalities. They also receive subsidies to reach out to the public. That also means that you can also spend that subsidy on paying those musicians fairly. By the way, I am actually going to discuss with municipalities whether, like me, they want to use the Fair Practice Code as a starting point for their subsidy. That discussion will take place on May 20th, before the letter of principle comes to the Chamber. I hope to be able to report to you on what came out of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	A free lunch does not exist, at least not for the musicians who have to play for free. It is not acceptable that the cliché of the creating artist is abused to allow well-educated people who do good work to work for free. I'm happy with all the intentions, but the question is this one. The need does not need to be investigated anymore. People are simply entitled to good pay, so I ask the Minister to agree in the talks she is having now that musicians will be paid for their work in future and to inform the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	In my view, I have just explained the lines along which I want to ensure that musicians are actually paid fairly for the work they are doing, through the collective agreement, possibly through new legislation, but also through the grant conditions. That whole package of how we shape it will be reflected in the letter of principle, which will be sent to the Chamber before the summer. I think that's the commitment to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	This isn't just about keeping to the collective agreements. This is also about power. As a self-employed person, you often don't have the power to improve those conditions yourself. That is why independent artists, for example, ask for collective bargaining space. On June 23, 2016, that is more than 700 days ago, MPs Monasch of the Party of Labour and Van Dijk of the SP submitted the proposal to create that space. Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks and Mr Asscher of the PvdA then asked for this. What's the problem now? Why isn't this still happening? And why does the Minister now say that she is examining the basis for the possible extension of legislation? It's just a matter of stricter rules, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	I didn't say I was exploring the basis for that. I am looking at how we can shape this legislation. But you also understand that you must negotiate collectively within one of the sectors of OCW in connection with the discussions that are currently taking place with the Social Affairs colleague and that we are also talking about this with the Authority for Consumer Affairs and the Market. But we are actually working on legislation right now. I hope to inform your Chamber as soon as possible whether I can submit this legislation to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	What's "as soon as possible"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	As soon as possible. Look, we all know here that the wholezzp file is pretty complicated. There's coherence in that. I'm dependent on others for that, too. I cannot put a specific date on that at the moment. As soon as I know, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	Not an indication to the Chamber, either? For the summer recess 2019 or... ?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr President, I cannot do that at the moment. I don't want to raise false expectations either. It's quite a complex file. I intend to come to that legislation, but you know as well as I do that it is related to other dossiers, which are quite complex. So don't pin me down on a date. They're working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	700 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	No, you really can't, Mr. Kwint. Mr Van Nispen has already answered a question.
