ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mrs Van den Berg's question on behalf of the CDA to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about not recording Thijs H. by a ggz setting. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On Saturday we read in the daily newspaper the shocking news that Thijs H.'s parents had asked twice for help from a ggz institution for their son, but that they did not receive that help and that their son was not admitted. As sad as it is for the victims of Thijs H., I do not want to talk about this incident, because we are still having a judicial investigation and the inspection is still working on it. However, I would like to mention the lack of cooperation between ggz institutions and other bodies, such as the police and the Ggd, and the lack of a learning culture within the ggz organisations. It is not the first time we have seen such incidents in the ggz. In addition, I get e-mails from desperate parents, but sometimes also from a neighbor who just cares about his neighbor who needs help. They pull the bell, but they don't get a response. Afterwards, it turns out that they are proved right, namely that those involved really needed help. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: what is he going to do about it and how do we achieve a learning culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs van den Berg says that she does not want to go into the specific situation described last Saturday in the Algemeen Dagblad and I welcome that, however sad and miserable it is for all the relatives and those involved. I can also mention that there are two investigations going on, as is always the case with such emergencies: the criminal investigation by the judiciary/OM and the investigation by the Health and Youth Inspectorate. Apart from this situation, Mrs van den Berg says "it actually happens too often," and she asks: how can we go to a learning culture? I think that Mrs Van den Berg has a point when she says that there is work going on in the ggz side by side. I would like to point out that there is, of course, a lot going on in the ggz. Hundreds of thousands of people receive treatment, in a clinic or in an outpatient environment. I'm glad they're okay. There is also an army of nearly 100,000 professionals, aid workers, daily to offer people the best possible help. That's it? That's it? That's it? No, things are going wrong, too. How do we learn from that? This can be done primarily by changing culture and by putting people in such an attitude that they want to share interesting information with each other and not think in the interest of organisation. That's what I'm talking to the organizations involved. That is also the common thread in the main agreement ggz. The starting point there is that we work together on all fronts and try to give it to each other. But if we zoom in on the situations that have arisen now, I would like to say that we, as a Dutch society and as a legislator, have learned from this by tightening up the legislation in question. We are now working with the BOPZ Act, the Law special admissions in psychiatric hospitals. That law will come to an end soon and from 1 January the law on compulsory ggz will be in force. In any case, it has three major advantages over existing legislation. First of all, people are not only treated against their will in very critical situations and risky situations, i.e. forced, in a clinical setting, because that can be done in an outpatient manner. Mrs Van den Berg knows all about this. This is an important step forward, because it can force people to be treated in more places, for example with forced medication. Secondly, the family, for which Mrs Van den Berg rightly asks attention, gets a heavier voice, a thicker finger in the porridge. The family even gets perseverance. If the local authorities do not want to investigate a case, they can even force a case to be investigated. This is an important improvement in the position of the family of the clients concerned. Thirdly, there is the exchange of information, also an important element that Mrs van den Berg mentioned. There is also a better guarantee in that law that there will be data exchange between care...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	But that law has been dealt with extensively here. So I'd keep it short after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	I was working on my final words, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	That's what I thought. I'm just gonna let you know just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	Maybe I can finish the sentence. In that law, a better exchange of information is ensured between care on the one hand and justice on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Secretary of State says there's a lot of good going on. That is precisely the case for lighter cases. So it's the hard cases that get into trouble. The law put forward by the Secretary of State does give a right to be heard better, but not the guarantee that people's complaints will be taken seriously. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to send a letter to the Chamber for the AO GGZ at the end of January on how we are really going to oblige the ggz to come up with practical research and thus develop a learning culture. The points raised by the State Secretary concern the exchange of information between the judiciary and the ggz institution. But the ggz institutions must have a learning culture and I do not hear the Secretary of State about it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	The first point. Mrs van den Berg says: only in light cases can we see that there is easy switching and that there are no calamities. This may also have to do with the character of light cases, but let me also point out that the number of forced treatments in the Netherlands has increased enormously. In 2003 there were less than 14,000 cases of forced admission and in 2017, the last year we have information about, there were almost 27,000 such situations. That is almost a doubling of the really serious concern. So I think it is taken very seriously by the sector. I can now give a full account of the learning culture, but if Mrs Van den Berg wants a letter on it, I would be happy to give it my word for the general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	I welcome a letter, but the specific question is whether the letter really deals with how the Secretary of State is going to oblige the ggz institutions to come to that learning culture. So I don't just want a letter with a reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	If we send a letter on that, I assume there will be something in it. But I'm trying to imagine exactly what Mrs Van den Berg is asking for. Should I give hands and feet to the obligation to come to a learning culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yes, it is. We believe that you should centrally record certain incidents with each other and then discuss with each other what we can now learn from them. This learning culture should also be shared with other ggz institutions. I hear that one ggz institution focuses on high intensive care and that the other has experience with suicide, but it's all about being very sad cases with a lot of impact on the people themselves or on their families and next of kin. How can we step in this together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	I hear Mrs van den Berg's question very well. I will do my best to give my hands and feet to that request in the letter. We hear in general consultation whether Mrs Van den Berg wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thijs H., Bart van U., Philip O.: This is not an incident, this is a structural problem. The other day, another woman was shot dead in Alkmaar because, while she showed extremely confused treaty, after many reports, she was not admitted. My question is therefore very specific whether the Secretary of State wishes to acknowledge that we are not dealing with legislation that is not good, but with institutions that say: I do not accept this client or patient, but send them away. This happens despite repeated demands from parents or police, with all the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	I understand Mrs. Chicken's question, but I find it complicated, exciting. Of course, we have a lot of situations where we have to consider whether someone is being forced to take a shot, yes or no. I have just indicated in reply to questions from Mrs Van den Berg that there is a substantial increase in forced treatment or treatment. Recording. At the same time, we strive to reduce forced treatment, also under the mandatory ggz Act. We're seeing an increase. When it happens, it's based on considerations that professionals make. That's how we organized it in the Netherlands. We have people who are equipped for this, working in the ggz, who have to make a good risk assessment based on their knowledge and skills. There are very clear protocols to this end, which they must all follow. It is then up to the professionals in the field to make that assessment. If this is not done properly, or if, despite the risk assessment, it appears that a wrong choice has been made and that there is a calamity, then we in the Netherlands also have the system that is being investigated to see where improvements are possible. That is also the case with Thijs H.. There's a criminal investigation going on and an IGJ investigation. I think we should also face the fact that we will never achieve a situation in which there will never be another calamity, however it may be. I'd love to tell you more beautifully, but I can't do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	I understand that we are not all in a good position to prevent it, but we have to see that these things are happening afterwards, which are very serious. I was with a lady last week who also has some really bad mental problems. She said, "I'll be on the street too, but luckily I have a confidant who'll take me away." When I talk to her all morning, I see someone who really wants to get better but doesn't get the help she wants. I think something really needs to happen in advance, before we lose control of people and end up in the street. I was at work in Leeuwarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	There's a Care and Security House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	The question, Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	My question is: would you also like to investigate whether the Health and Safety House as it is now in Leeuwarden is perhaps also an option for the whole of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	In response to Mrs Van den Berg, I have just promised a letter on learning culture. I think we can take this aspect into account. Mrs Diertens refers to the point that, for example, the municipal authorities cannot or cannot take up the care we would like. It is precisely for this reason that additional funds have been entered into the VWS budget next year, which is 65 million, rising to 95 million in order to also give outpatient assistance by the municipalities, so that we can have a more coherent approach for each client.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	New legislation is about to start, and that is good. I think that's what everyone looks like. Of course, we hope that this kind of situation will be avoided. An improvement in the law is that soon everyone can report to the municipality if one considers that a recording should take place. Are all parties sufficiently prepared for this? How do we deal with the bureaucracy that this law will bring with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	That is an important point. We have intensive discussions with all interested parties, with the interest associations and umbrella organisations of the psychiatrists and the municipalities, with GGZ Nederland and with the client side, MIND. We are having intense discussions on how this law can be optimally implemented. That's gonna be an exciting process. We have also agreed in the law itself that we will evaluate after two years whether this is the right approach. We see that the hour is approaching, because we are going to introduce that law on 1 January. It will be exciting how we are going to give them hands and feet, with the corresponding bureaucracy, because this will lead to a partial increase in the burden. We have therefore agreed with the people who have to give this hands and feet that we should keep our finger on the wrist permanently. If there is reason to change the law on a part, so that there is less unnecessary burden, we will do so equally and not wait until the evaluation after two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you.
