ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u1	In the meantime, we also have our second ruler. A warm word of welcome to the Minister of LNV and the Minister of BZK. I'm glad you're both with us. The next item is the Act supplementing the Nature Environment Act, Section 34985. We have nine speakers from the Chamber. One of them, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, requested 30 minutes of speaking time. I'm not sure she's here yet. I don't know what that's gonna mean for her presence. I say this in all neutrality, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr von Martels, with a modest ten minutes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It's great to have at least ten minutes of speaking time. Normally it's four or five minutes. Now I can tell beautiful stories about nature here in peace. This is almost a kind of maiden speech for me, because as the new spokesman for nature of the CDA Group, I am allowed to enter the realm of flora and fauna today. Today we discuss the unchanged transfer of the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act. The CDA agrees with this transfer and will therefore support the legislative proposal. In the Netherlands, we are making progress in protecting nature. Nature indicators show a careful recovery of nature in the Netherlands, including better water quality and increased freshwater fauna. The CDA wants us to proceed together with this improvement, together with volunteers and closer to the people thanks to the decentralisation of nature policy to the provinces. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to take this opportunity to discuss a number of issues. First of all, the CDA, like all other parties, sees that we in the Netherlands are going through the protection of all species and habitat types in Natura sites. As a result, there is too little focus on the most valuable species and habitats, and there are also too many unnecessary constraints for a good balance between nature and the economy. This year comes the six-yearly report of the Birds Directive and Habitats Directive. Is the Minister prepared to look at how the Netherlands can give more focus to the European commitments under Natura 2000 and so really make a difference in certain areas and for certain species? Mr. Chairman. We see that wildlife management and compensation need improvement, because farmers are struggling with damage to their crops due to wildlife, the damage payments are only increasing and wildlife management is apparently not easy. In the note on the basis of the further report, the Minister indicated that he would like to leave this improvement mainly with the provinces. The CDA believes that more is needed for this. Therefore, the CDA proposes to carry out a study together with the provinces to explore how the management of wildlife and the compensation of wildlife damage can be simplified. If you are prepared to do so, my question is: Mr. Chairman. I read an article about the shadows of our light, another subject: "The shadow side of all our light" by Marjolijn van Heemstra. In this article she writes how it gets lighter in the dark in the Netherlands, and that we see fewer and fewer stars. I'm worried about that, too. The Health Council also wrote an opinion on it earlier. On the one hand, enlightenment can enhance our sense of security. On the other hand, the dark is better for peace and nature. It therefore calls for policies to ensure that the balance between safety and landscape and nature is found. With the Environment Act and the Decision quality living environment, there is room for the municipalities to consider how to implement this. I wonder whether municipalities are aware of their task to help find this balance and to give substance to the consideration space. How does the Home Secretary view this? Does the Minister see opportunities to assist municipalities in this? Is it an idea, for example, to draw up a guide, together with municipalities, to show how and when the prevention of light pollution is desirable and what possibilities there are for regulating it? Then something else. The green services of a number of municipalities in the Netherlands have the same challenges, which also have to do with nature. At the moment, for example, in parts of our country, it is not possible to harden by a terrible procession caterpillar plague. Every year, the plague picks up. There are more and more, a triple this year even compared to last year. I am also thinking of the Japanese thousand knot approach, which many municipalities are struggling with. In addition, there are also positive challenges, such as attention to biodiversity, such as bees in greening. We are convinced that it will benefit municipalities if solutions are sought together with the University of Wageningen and with colleges of applied sciences and if we can learn from each other. How's the minister looking at this? Does she want to talk to municipalities to develop a joint knowledge and learning programme on challenges in green management? Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, wolves were born in the wild for the first time in 200 years. It's a special occasion. On the one hand a wonderful sign of the restoration of nature, on the other hand a concern, for example for sheep farmers and also for some nature managers. The CDA tabled a motion at the end of last year to jointly launch a social debate on the wolf with provinces. How did the Minister implement this motion? Have any talks been made with the provinces for this? How will this be implemented? Mr. Chairman. I am at the end of my speech and have more than five minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u4	Oh, that graces you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u6	Let me see if Mr Moorlag can repeat this to you. I call Mr Moorlag. No: Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u7	I had a number of questions for Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u8	You're gonna have to come to the Interrupt Microphone in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u9	I'd be happy to come back and answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the CDA say that the number of reports of damage and the amount of damage farmers have caused by wildlife is increasing. I'd like to ask Mr. von Martels what that's based on. Because the value of rai grass is getting less and less. It has become a monoculture, which is becoming less and less valuable. In addition, hardly any good research has been carried out into the actual damage...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u12	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u13	... and a prognosis is often made instead of taking into account what the actual damage is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u14	As far as I know, this damage is EUR 21 million and that amount has only been incurred over the past year. The claims are filed and also paid. In that sense, it is easy to check the extent of the damage. That's what I'm basing my input on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u15	I note that Mr von Martels has read the hunter's lobby letter very well. I read that too. But what is that amount based on? I still don't hear that. Is it based on objective research or is it a prognosis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u16	It has to do with the submission and payment of the damages. On that basis, those amounts are appointed from the past. In addition, an estimate is made of the amounts in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u17	Fine. Get ready. We are going to listen to Mr Moorlag from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Environment Act seems to be the largest legislative operation since the introduction of the General Administrative Law Act in 1994. Maybe it's even bigger. Today we are talking about the introduction of nature legislation into the Environment Act. Mr. Chairman. The Environmental Act aims at simplification, more consideration space, less control, at least less control through very detailed standards and more direction on targets. These are principles which the Labour Party can endorse. At the same time, however, there is still a decline in nature and biodiversity and the importance of nature and biodiversity is not always well weighed or well weighed. The PvdA believes that nature and biodiversity should be more strongly considered in the planning process. The PvdA does not want to pursue this by including all kinds of detailed rules or by setting further detailed standards. I'm looking for the solution more by analogy with the Ladder for sustainable urbanization that we know from the consideration of whether spatial developments in the outer area are allowed. This ladder requires governments to explicitly motivate it if certain choices are made. It seems to the PvdA to be a very good idea to introduce such a system before the Environment Act. This does not need to lead to a legislative amendment, so you will not find an amendment from the PvdA, but there is still a general measure of governance to be adopted. My question to the two rulers is whether they want to develop a ladder for the consideration of nature interests that is included in the general measure of governance. A ladder like that could be very simple. That could consist of asking a number of questions: is an intervention at all necessary at a location where nature values are present? If so, can negative impacts on nature be avoided? If this is not the case, how can the loss of nature be compensated and repaired in such a way that, on balance, there is sufficient certainty of a positive effect on nature? And how can a positive contribution be made to the restoration of natural and biodiversity values without loss of natural value? Mr. Chairman. In this way, governments are, as it were, challenged to weigh very explicitly, but also to motivate in their explanatory notes on an environmental plan, how nature and biodiversity values contribute to planning. It is a different arrangement from what we usually do so far, because we tend to stack rule by rule and work more and more in detail. Again, my question to the directors is whether they can go along with the introduction of such a system, with an obligation to state reasons by analogy with the obligation to state reasons as laid down in Article 3.1.6 of the Spatial Planning Decision. Again, capital is being spent in this country on planning development costs and on developing new rules. That is not what the PvdA is aiming for, but we do want to contribute to improving the restoration of nature and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you. You've spoken for a little over three minutes. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I told you earlier that she had requested 30 minutes' speaking time. She has changed that period and is now going to speak to us for 40 minutes. I call Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u20	Yes, hold on, Mr. Chairman! Part of it is also for the second term. Mr. Chairman. Can legislation run counter to our nature protection or even contribute to the destruction of nature? I would like to put that question at the heart of my contribution to this debate. More specifically, is there any mention of our nature? Or should we consider nature as a stand-alone value with intrinsic meaning, regardless of its usefulness to man? Does nature deserve protection without being linked to economic interest? Man has developed into the most harmful species on earth and poses a threat to nature, the environment, animals, climate and biodiversity. It would be good if we realised this when discussing the Supplementary Nature Act as part of the Environment Act, a legislative process of unprecedented magnitude whereby in more than fifteen years all legislation relating to our living environment will be compressed into an overcrowded cattle car at 35°C. Much of the current legislation is far less self-evident than is suggested. But before I go into the natural part of today, I'd like to start with a sketch of the situation. Mr. Chairman. We can't just treat this law like any other, as if it's a normal course of action that we're simply going to run a spearhead from the VVD program according to the logic of "lay down a road through a nature reserve and you have two nature reserves." These are win-win situations that lead to minus-min situations for animals, nature and the environment and therefore also minus-min situations for our own species, man. What good is money if the ice sheet melts? What good is new paths that literally die or lead to destruction of nature? Our environment is under unprecedented pressure. We are in an ecological crisis that will have major consequences for our own existence and for future generations. So populations of insects, which are indispensable for our food production, have fallen by 70% to 80%. Soil life literally chokes under the 80 billion kilos of manure that our livestock farming produces annually. Water quality in virtually no place meets European standards. Nature is under severe pressure due to nitrogen emissions. Trees are harvested massively, even in the middle of the breeding season, and then burned. Air quality, which does not comply with WTO standards, is therefore even more at risk. We have not yet discussed the climate crisis in which we find ourselves. I hear the PVV sighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u21	He's gonna sit tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u22	After us the flood is no longer a theme of our history, but a description of the near future if we do not quickly come to very drastic repentance. Sustainable food production, a healthy soil, healthy water and trees that purify and cool our air, it is all not a luxury, not a non-binding political choice, but literally of vital importance. For this reason, all these matters need our undivided attention. It is not just a natural recovery plan or an action plan. There must be a fundamental review of how we deal with our living environment. Not laissez-faire legislation, but the state of emergency. Literally saving what's to be saved. Too long and too often we have seen that moving ahead with necessary choices and focusing on en- and policy ultimately comes at the expense of nature and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u23	I'm actually curious when Mrs Van Kooten will be coming to the point. We're standing here for legal treatment, for the transfer of the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act. Is Mrs Van Kooten in favour of this or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u24	I am very glad that the CDA is curious there and that will be reflected in my speech. It is very comprehensive legislation. There are a large number of laws being compressed into the Environment Act and I would like to take advantage of my time, of these minutes, to explain why we think that is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u25	I like to listen to the argument, but on the other hand I like it when someone is to the point and works for a climax. Do I have to wait another half an hour or can I expect the Party for Animals to answer that in two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u26	I'm afraid you'll be able to sit down for a while. Mr. Chairman. This law does not provide a fundamental review with priority for restoring and protecting our living environment. On the contrary, it's more of the same. This law literally makes change from our nature. The PAS policy, which has recently been annulled by the Council of State, shows that ecology is literally suffocated by our economic ambitions, that economic growth is not the solution, but the problem itself, and that trees that grow into the sky and cows with golden horns are not the result of a happy coincidence, but of unbridled greed at the expense of the life that surrounds us and that is becoming more and more at risk. The objective of the PAS to regulate nature conservation and the area for economic growth and economic activities proved to be a prime excuse for expanding intensive livestock farming around sensitive areas, continuing to expand highways and increasing speeds. Everything at the expense of nature. Nature values were secured according to the principleless principle "who lives, who cares," a wretched political compromise of Ger Koopmans and Diederik Samsom as a ticking nitrogen bomb among everything that grows and blooms. The Dutch merchant spirit with the approval of a former Greenpeace activist who was stuck in what he himself called "the gravel bin of raw reality." The hazing of political ideals, smothered in the political recklessness of the polder model. Mr. Chairman. I am thinking here of this aspect, because this is precisely the same double objective that we are also reading back in the Environment Act. History repeats itself, based on completely unrealistic wishful thinking from the short-sightedness that it will take our time. The Environment Act has two objectives: protecting and exploiting the environment. But can the Minister guarantee that this law is nitrogen proof? Does the Minister see conflicting circumstances which could lead to legal bodies disqualifying this law in the near future, as has happened with the PAS, on which only four years ago the glass was raised as if it were the egg of Columbus? Does this law provide sufficient protection for nature, so we won't be back here in a few years, crying about spilling milk? Mr. Chairman. Looking back at almost ten years of Rutte, but certainly after the coalition parties' statements last week, there is no confidence in my group that protecting the environment in this law will ever be put above exploiting it, that nature will be protected when the economy knocks on the door. According to a MP of the VVD, the sea is mainly meant to transport goods and make a good living. In his vocabulary there is nothing about protecting vulnerable natural areas, the intrinsic value of marine life or protecting everything of value that is defenseless against the unbridled economic ambitions. Money that's stupid makes right what's crooked. Earlier the VVD said that we have enough nature in the Netherlands with the Veluwe and the Wadden Sea and that the rest can be exchanged for the construction of more business areas, residential areas and roads. When the judge made it clear that after years of economic development at the expense of nature that literally suffocated nature in our nitrogen production, his colleague, Mr Weverling, here, stated that the balance between nature and economy had gone missing. We should see if we don't have too many nature reserves and rules in the Netherlands. After all, entrepreneurs must be able to undertake, according to the VVD. Nature is too expensive to protect, nature is there to make change from. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of IenW also said that where economic development came to an end, we should come up with a new ruse. She put an army of lawyers on it. Not to respect the ruling of the Supreme Court and to focus on a sustainable policy change, but to circumvent that ruling. That is total anarchy in the service of commercial interests, ignoring everything that really has value. Greed reigns. The judge says we're causing serious damage to nature. And what follows is no mea culpa and an army of ecologists to repair the damage done. No, an army of lawyers is being rigged to come up with a ruse to murmur and ignore the crystal clear statement of the Council of State. 'Marketing' is called that, in etymology from the Latin'mercatare', in the use of speech mainly 'dealing in the sense of shattering, not taking it so closely', in this case not taking it so closely with the judgments of our highest court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u27	I hear all kinds of Latin terms, I think we are here in the Dutch Parliament. I have read in an interview with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that she voted VVD in her early years. Where did it go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u28	That statement will haunt me for a long time to come. It's better halfway around than completely lost, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u29	I note that this is not an answer to the question. Where did it go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u30	It was the first time I was allowed to vote. I read all the election programs then, and at some point I didn't even know it at all. Then my father advised me to vote for the VVD. His view of future generations was rather shortsighted, it turns out. That's where it went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u31	I'm not gonna go here and dig into the relationship between father and daughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. A political party can create a helpdesk integrity, but if its own minister wants to trickle with statements from the Council of State, the word "integrity" gets a very harsh taste. This is a minister who wants to do everything in his power to open an airport next to a nature reserve, to widen roads at the expense of hundreds of trees and not to block intensive livestock farming, even where nature is literally suffocated. Mr. Chairman. This is why we are opposed to the passing of the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. Mr. Von Martels is not paying attention, but this is the reason, Mr. Von Martels. It is a high-speed train which is pervasive on a track which has been repeatedly made clear that it is dead end. All we can do today is to pull the emergency brake, to ask you all to stop the train, to reverse it and to run back through the aisle, even if that would mean for you as a member of a coalition party that you should give up your reserved plush seat in the interests of the country, nature, animals and the future of our children. Mr. Chairman. We can still turn the tide, even if it's two to twelve. There are parties in the coalition who say they see the urgency of intervening in this catastrophic state of nature and climate, such as D66. I quote from last week's PAS debate: "The time of an economy on natural credit is over. We think we're the smartest girl in the class, but we're walking away from it. We are not going to make that mistake next week when integrating the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act." We're curious. It was also said: "The Netherlands has long lived on the puff of Mother Nature." End quotes of D66. The only problem is that it doesn't seem to have understood that economic growth, or as D66 put it, the "restoring of the economy," nature conservation and restoration, is precisely in the way that the Supplementary Nature Act in the Environment Act is a further erosion of nature conservation, now that the economy and the exploitation of nature are being given ample jobs. How will D66 vote? Will the party follow or deny nature? What will D66 do if it turns out that the coalition interest and the natural interest are incompatible? Mr. Chairman. The Minister of LNV writes in her letter of inquiry that the legal protection of nature is without prejudice to the transition of the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act and that no more room is given for potentially harmful economic activities. Those are fine words that deserve to be held against the light. The Minister quietly simplifies us to sleep with the no-unless principle. The Minister states that an economic activity that is potentially detrimental to nature should not be allowed by the provinces unless conditions for nature protection are met. This would ensure a careful consideration of other interests against the importance of protecting nature. Nature will be equally well protected, according to the Minister, or just as badly. For example, look at the economic activities in the Wadden region, UNESCO World Heritage, which lead to gas drilling, salt extraction, oil stains and container ships that cause a catastrophe when accidents occur like the MSC Zoe. Look at the deforestation in the Netherlands and the intensive livestock farming, which is still growing and literally sowing death and destruction in our meadows with monocultures and green deserts. Look at fertilization, poison, pebble, resulting in the aforementioned ecological damage: insect mortality and an unprecedented loss of biodiversity in our country. In that case, citizens, farmers and outsiders must be pleased with a law in which nature is supposed to remain equally well protected. Nature is not well protected, and will still not be well protected with a policy-neutral transition. Mr. Chairman. The so-called great advantage of the transition from the Nature Protection Act, simplification of the rules, is also not visible. Although the integration of the law brings together the spatial legal provisions, it also leads to a large fragmentation of nature legislation. Even professors state nature conservation law: even after habitation, it continues to look a lot. Mr. Chairman. My group is deeply concerned about the further decentralisation of our nature policy. We have never been in favour of it, and unfortunately we are seeing another shift in the wrong direction with the advent of the Environment Act. The core of the Environmental Act is the wider balancing area for local authorities. The risk is that the focus will be on short-term interests due to lack of regulatory and ecology expertise. In addition, this represents a missed opportunity to take control from the Empire and counter the far-reaching consequences of the biodiversity crisis. Nature does not benefit from provincial boundaries. In addition, there is limited scope for appeal against harmful decisions or participation. Mr. Chairman. The European directives are the minimum nature needs. It is a safety net in the event that individual Member States do not themselves draw up adequate nature protection. The criterion of "favourable state of conservation" is a hollowed-out term, now that the legal text and the explanatory statement do not make it clear exactly what the "favourable state" means, how it can be objectively assessed and how local authorities will fulfil this criterion. What nature really needs is active protection rather than passive conservation with a real risk of deterioration. Given the economic balance made in the past, the Party for Animals with this compressed law sees no guarantee of a robust nature from which it can be harvested in the near future, quite the contrary. Speaking of harvesting, making use of it, what's the logic behind it? Can the ministers explain that to me? How can you harvest from something that is about to disappear, the red-listed species, the last leftovers of nature, the last trees, the last remaining biodiversity? Who thought it would be a good idea to throw away massively the so-called beneficial species of conservation? Without any use or necessity, purely for the fun of a small group of hobbyists who enjoy killing animals. We must note that after the Bleker era it has not progressed much with the intrinsic value of nature and the animals living in it. The intrinsic value of the animal is not repeated often enough. The value of an animal is separate from its usefulness to man. How can you recognize the intrinsic value of a hare, rabbit, pheasant, wild duck or wood pigeon when at the same time only for the fun of a human being can be shot at that animal? Can the Minister explain this in detail, so that, for the history of law, it becomes clear what the legal recognition of the intrinsic value of animals gives to real protection. The Dutch nature is apparently still considered a vegetable garden that needs to be raked and picked up in time. Unwanted intruders can be fought with rugged guns. Man determines who is welcome and who is not. Mr. Chairman. Nature can do just fine without interference from humans and does not need human intervention with the shotgun. The Party for Animals wants an end to the wildly huntable species. The pleasure yacht, just for the tasty trekking and the enjoyment of the shot knows no ID and should therefore be prohibited. Fun is not an ID for killing living beings whose intrinsic value has legal recognition. Mr. Chairman. The provincial exemption lists for killing animals should also be deleted. These lists contain a number of animals which, in the event of often minimal or only foreseeable damage, may be intensively hunted by the hunters themselves on the basis of questionable load calculations and dubious field counts. There are plenty of animal-friendly alternatives. Research after research shows that hunting is counterproductive in all respects. Let me take the wild boar as an example. Each year 70% to 80% of the population is shot at the Veluwe. Yet wild boars on the Veluwe standard get three times as many offspring as in areas where they are not hunted: a logical reaction of nature. The result is that hunters want to hunt with even more extreme means. A floating yacht is already allowed by the province in North Brabant. There is hunting with traps, night vision goggles and decoy food. As a result, the wild boar flee their own territories, sometimes the provincial roads or even highways. A truce would be a sensible response. Let's stop chasing animals before any more accidents happen. Place roadside wild signaling systems and reduce the maximum speed, which is good for the safety of both humans and animals. Mr. Chairman. It would be expected that the risk of introduction and spread of serious animal diseases, such as African swine fever, would reduce common sense a little. But no, zero levels are kept extra strictly, hunters ask for additional opportunities to continue and expand their extremely pointless and cruel hobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u33	My question is, in fact, whether the Animal Party thinks that there should be no hunting at all and we should therefore allow an unbridled increase in animal numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u34	That's a bit of a strange question, because it's said that hunting counteracts the unbridled growth of animal populations. I have just explained that this is completely incorrect. When animals are intensively hunted, they get more young, as shown by all kinds of studies. In the Deerew forest, for example, deer get less young than in areas where they are intensively hunted. That's a trick of nature to keep the species alive. The same applies to geese: when they are actively gassed and hunted, they lay eggs more and more often. So it's totally counterproductive. The Party for Animals believes that hunting is purely for the pleasure of the hunter, without any purpose or necessity, without any danger, and is no reason for disloyal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u35	I agree that hunting is a means of achieving a goal and not an end in itself. But it must be possible for management to take place, mustn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u36	The existence of a list of freely huntable species, which may be hunted without any purpose or necessity, serves no purpose but the purpose of the hunter's fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u37	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u38	From Monday onwards, even newborn piglets on the Veluwe may be killed during the night hours, using poachers, such as night vision goggles and silencers, in order to minimise social control. On the Veluwe a wolf pair with young settles. Rather than leave the territory of the wolves alone and necessarily withdraw wisely and legally, the hunt continues at night with night vision goggles and silencers. This while a hunter's argument has now fallen, namely that man as the controller of nature must take the place of the natural enemy of the wild boar. The wolf is here in the Netherlands. Let us keep it that way and let the animals live for a truly natural balance. Mr. Chairman. What we are also extremely busy with in the Netherlands is the tree hood. The deforestation in the Netherlands is more rapid in percentage terms than in the Amazon region. Hidden trees are piled up high, even in the forests of State Forests. There is self-hacking in the nesting time of birds and the carrying and sucking time of mammals. Cutting and cutting in the breeding season is not by definition contrary to the law. These are semi-legislative rules at most; they are non-binding rules in a code of conduct. Does the Minister want to ban cutting and pruning in the breeding season and in the sucking and wearing season? The Minister recently stated that we in the Netherlands do not stand still when it comes to improving biodiversity. An ecologist and chief lecturer of Wageningen University, Mr Jansen, wrote about it in Trouw at the end of May. The Netherlands has been trying for years to comply with international agreements on biodiversity with minimal commitment. Not only is too little area designated for nature conservation, many of them are also available for wild plants and animals. Protected natural areas must fulfil all kinds of secondary functions, sometimes directly at the expense of natural values. He is right, and I quote: 'if I can characterize the nature policy of the past decade with two words, I choose half-hearted and calculating'. Jansen finds a good example of the state of our forests. Mr. Chairman. The continuous sawing and harvesting from our forests ensures that no natural forest can be created here. Trees should not grow old in the Netherlands, decay, drop their branches, collapse or rot. More than half of forest species depend on decaying trees and dead wood to complete their life cycle. But well before that, they're cut in the eyes of the government. Falling branches, even in a forest, are potentially dangerous and also beautiful firewood for the wood-burning plants. So our forest management, armed with the chainsaw, goes into the woods. Can the Minister explain why the government counts production forest and multifunctional forest as a surface protected nature reserve? That tends to cheat. Really protected nature is nature that is left alone, not nature that has to perform incriminating side functions such as wood harvesting and recreation. Is the Minister prepared to correct this image? Our forests are plannedly transformed by bald cover into production forests of equal age, consisting of one or at most two species of trees. Large empty spaces remain behind and cause a lot of social displeasure. Can the Minister confirm that our forests are becoming more ecologically unstable and climate-sensitive due to bald cap? How does bald cap yield more varied forest, according to the Minister? The open spaces created in the forest make up about 600 hectares of area which is stripped of each year and whose soil is machined. Here again, the result is loss of biodiversity, CO stored in the forest floor and loss of soil fertility. There is a great alternative to the balding of large plains: leave alone, thin out where it is needed and let nature continue its course. Drop those side functions as wood harvest and start protecting our forests. We will not escape if we take the climate and biodiversity objectives seriously. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party calls on the Minister to put an immediate stop to pro-active protection of nature and wildlife, and to defraud it for the sake of short-term interests in all its forms, in the interests of future generations, the planet and all its inhabitants. It's high time and it's high time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u39	It's flew by!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u40	I have some time left, I see, for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u41	Yes, and Mrs. Bromet is going to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u42	I would like to thank Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen for her contribution. It was indeed a passionate speech that I liked to listen to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u43	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u44	I've been asking the Party for Animals for a long time. I think this is a good time to ask him. Does the Party for Animals think that man is also an animal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u45	That man is also an animal? Of course! We're descended from the monkeys anyway. That's evolution theory. It goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u46	I'd like to talk about this a little longer, but I have one more question. The Party for Animals always gives man all kinds of orders. Very often that is the same assignments as GroenLinks gives them. But the Party for Animals does that from some kind of moral superiority. For example, when it comes to eating meat, is the Animal Party there for animals to eat meat, but are people not allowed to eat meat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u47	Well. Let me start with the first point. The human species is the only species that exploits its habitat in such a way that it causes disastrous damage to the ecosystem and the entire planet. Is that what we do with moral superiority? No. We have to decide, now that it's 12:05, whether we're going to continue on the road or make choices...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u48	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u49	...protecting the climate and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u51	This includes a plant-based diet. The Party for Animals is the last one to say: everyone has to stop eating meat. But we want to make people aware of it and show that you can eat equally varied and healthy with a plant-based diet, without harming nature and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u52	We're all getting a little hungry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mrs Van Kooten is clearly not in favour of hunting. She shoots herself with hail with all the arguments that come along. I was just thinking about hunting the pigs. If you went through that philosophy of "the more you hunt, the stronger the population rises" and the hunt worked like that, you'd almost suspect that we're going to promote the shooting of the meadow birds. You'd say, "No, we certainly shouldn't do that." How does Mrs Van Kooten see the meadow birds returning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u54	Let me start with the swine, if you'll allow me. It is true: if pigs are hunted intensively, they get three times as much young as they had before. I have here, for example, an article from De Boerderij, the CDA's bodypage. It says that Brabant invests a ton and a half in pig management, because there are so many pigs. Why is that? There is a graph showing a scale that rises over a period of eight years. In 2010, less than a hundred pigs were shot. That will become more every year until there is an objective: 700 pigs are shooting, because there are so many pigs. We need to work on it with maximum manpower and resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u55	And now for the meadowbirds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u56	Yeah, and now the meadowbirds. The CDA is committed to intensifying agriculture and livestock farming. That's what's gonna ruin our landscape. We have monoculture. What does that have to do with meadow birds? I'll get to that in a minute. We have a monoculture of rai grass. There's no more herbal plant in there. The insect mortality rate is sky high. It is probably 80% in the Netherlands as well. The meadowbird has no food left. We have to add all the use of manure and all the use of poison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u57	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u58	We have almost no suitable habitat thanks to intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. Mr von Martels concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u60	Could it possibly also have to do with the loss of 500 000 hectares of agricultural land since 1960 and the addition of 20 000 hectares of nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u61	These are good figures, but I know that 65% of the Netherlands is made up of agricultural land and that only 15% of our biodiversity is left compared to what was 150 years ago. This is largely due to intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr Moorlag. Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Von Martels addressed the nuisance of the oak procession caterpillar. In the whole series that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen visited, to the losing branches, I thought that the caterpillar would undoubtedly also be mentioned. I'm just gonna use that case as a dilemma that we're facing anyway. How does Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen view this problem, which is experienced by people? To what extent can humanity intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u64	The oak procession caterpillar can actually do damage to eyes et cetera, but there are also areas in the Netherlands where they do not need to be combated and where man does not suffer from the oak procession caterpillar. If there is reason, if there is a danger, which could well be, then the Party for Animals wants to use pesticides that are not harmful to the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u65	Clear. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u66	I see a dilemma. I have also heard Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen say that you should not intervene in nature by definition. From that, I understand you shouldn't catch seals. It would also mean that you can't fight plague animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr. Moorlag, you misunderstood me. There are all kinds of extremes, for example weather extremes, but also the presence of the tiger mosquito in the Netherlands, after it has been exported through the lucky bamboo. This is due either to man's actions or to climate change that has been caused partly by man. So I think we need to see it bigger, we need to tackle it bigger and not say: we are going to fight that species extremely with all the resources we have and which are also harmful to ecosystems and other parts of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u68	Very good. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u69	We need to look carefully at how we can achieve this in the most friendly way possible for the environment, if there is actual damage, such as in the oak processioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you. Then Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Nature Supplement Act of the Environment Act is again a puzzle piece in the new system of spatial planning. It's a puzzle piece that's supposed to protect our fragile nature. Let's go into history and see where we're from. Already in 1880 we had in the Netherlands the Useful Animal Law and in 1912 the Bird Law. Later on, there were also the Hunting Act, Act threatened alien animals and plant species and the Nature Protection Act. In 1998 all the provisions of these laws were brought together in the Nature Protection Act and the Flora and fauna Act. The Birds Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Cites Convention were also implemented. In the end, at the beginning of 2017, the Nature Protection Act, the Forest Act and the Flora and fauna Act were replaced by one law, namely the Nature Protection Act. And now we're facing the next change: the Environment Act. This law will make it possible to better coordinate the different plans and rules for spatial planning, the environment and nature. Articles under the Nature Protection Act are partly incorporated into the Environment Act and partly into underlying acts. And there's a tricky point for D66. The explanatory memorandum to the Nature Supplementary Act states that the Nature Protection Act and all standards and instruments contained therein will continue to be politically neutral in the Environmental Law and the associated general measures of governance, and that the level of protection will not be affected. D66 supports the principle that everything is implemented politically neutrally. It is precisely in view of this objective that particular attention is paid to the legislative text and the legal system. On the basis of the current Nature Conservation Act and the underlying treaties and EU directives, the restoration and preservation of the favourable conservation status is considered to be a result obligation. The Empire is ultimately responsible for this. The national nature vision should pay particular attention to the conservation and, if necessary, the restoration of a favourable conservation status of species of animals and plants present in nature in the Netherlands and the natural habitats of species. The Empire has transferred this obligation to the provinces, and it will continue to do so. The Nature Protection Act does not have the term "environmental value," but neither does the rules on water and air. For example, with the advent of the Environmental Law, we also see other changes in the field of nature that have to do with the system change, for example more powers at the level of the municipalities. Under the Environmental Law, many international and European environmental standards are legally defined as environmental values. This will be done, among other things, for air, water quality and water safety. But for the time being this does not seem to be happening for nature in the current proposal. However, under treaties and European directives, the Netherlands is obliged to maintain and maintain wildlife species and habitat types in a favourable state of conservation. The concept of "favourable conservation status" may be regarded as a relatively vague term. However, like concepts from the Water Framework Directive, which also appear vague but have been worked out in concrete terms, such as 'good ecological status', the term 'favourable conservation status' can and must also have a specific effect. In addition, experience has already been gained in this field. The guidelines on strict species protection of the European Commission and the reporting guidelines for the Habitats Directive specify this definition of a favourable conservation status in four parameters: distribution area, population, habitat and future prospects. For each habitat and species, each of these parameters shall be assessed according to an agreed assessment matrix as favourable, insufficient, poor or unknown, resulting in an overall assessment of the conservation status in four classes. Reference values can be developed for each of these parameters, allowing proper assessment. In the Netherlands, a lot of research has been carried out along the lines discussed into the favourable state of conservation of species at national level. For example, in 2014 favourable reference values for population size and range were developed for the Dutch Habitats Directive species. These values are based as much as possible on scientific data, and when they were not sufficiently present on expert judgement. In addition to this research, several other reports are available which also map the favourable state of conservation along the lines mentioned above. This shows that the concept of "auspicious state of conservation" can be well developed in concrete standards that are quantifiable, comparable to air and water. Moreover, these are also objective standards, because the reference values can only be based on ecological knowledge. When exact scientific knowledge is lacking, expert judgement can also be used, as has been said. Given this quantification and objectivability, as well as the fact that achieving a favourable conservation status is a result obligation, anchoring the achievement of the favourable conservation status of species and habitat types as an environmental value is obvious under the Environmental Act. It also provides more clarity as to what the obligation to achieve that favourable status, a requirement laid down by decentralisation in the province, means. Nature is also given the same status as other European-protected environmental standards, such as air and water standards. In the light of the above, it is therefore only logical to include nature, like water and air, as an environmental value in the Environment Act. This was also promised by the Minister of the Interior during last week's PAS debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'm trying to figure out how to get the environmental value further on hands and feet. With sound I understand that you work with dB; something is 65 dB or 68 dB, which is quite clear to measure. But environmental value is incredibly subjective, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u73	No, that's a scientific profession. As I explained, this is done, similar to air and water, by ecologists who can achieve quantifiable standards and have already gained experience with them. Where that is not possible, the law allows to do so with an expert judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u74	And what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u75	I aim to describe the favourable state of conservation, so that as a Empire you also know which goals must be achieved with the funds, the resources that you make available. I suppose it should appeal to the VVD that we did not just give the money, but have well defined what to achieve with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u76	What particularly appeals to the VVD is that we do not create extra things that are not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u77	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u78	I think we already have a Nature Protection Act and a lot of other directives from Europe that we comply with. Isn't that enough for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u79	No, because these are directives and they do not have direct effect. If that had been the case, we would have had our nature policy in place a long time ago. That is why we now have the Nature Protection Act, which lays down a number of conditions. It is only logical to include them in the Environmental Act. You remember last week's debate on the PAS. Unfortunately, we have noticed that we did not do well there. In the long run, that's gonna mean you're gonna get hit by a judge after all. In that sense it is simply a legal clarification that the VVD should also be pleased with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u80	You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u81	So we come up with an enlightening amendment, Mr President. Indeed, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the consultation of the Natural Environment Act, the Netherlands is obliged to "take measures to maintain or restore natural habitats and wild fauna and flora for the benefit of the Community in a favourable conservation state'. In doing so, the amendment concerns a policy-neutral explication of an important international and European legal obligation already in force. The amendment also aims to increase the clarity and consistency of the Environment Act by applying the same approach to European mandatory water, air and nature targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u82	I note that this is the amendment to item No. 29 is. Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u83	That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u84	There is another question from Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u85	The amendment has been clearly explained, but it is not quite clear to me what this is going to mean for the implementation practice. Is this gonna lock things up or are we really not gonna have to be afraid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u86	No, on the contrary. It is a clarification of the task of the Empire. It does not occur in any way in the agreements we made with the provinces in 2013. They stand at the bar for the implementation of nature policy and for the protection of our nature. But it is something the government calls for, namely to protect nature. The government is already obliged to do so under international law. In that sense, it is simply a legal clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u87	I come to the conclusion that Mr De Groot had doubts about the way in which the government now protects nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u88	We can talk about actual practice. It's a little off the charts. What we are talking about today is a bill to place the current legislation in the Environment Act. We agreed that we wouldn't add anything to that and we wouldn't take anything off it. This element belongs to it according to D66. We are also here of careful legislation. You too have been through all the news around the PAS. That is why we are now particularly alert to the fact that we are simply translating other European obligations into national legislation in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u89	I have a question about the list of species that can be hunted: the hare, the rabbit, the pheasant, the wild duck and the wood pigeon. At the beginning of this year, Senator Koffeman of the Party for Animals in the First Chamber filed a motion to bring that list down to zero. That vote has been skipped on the wrong side and the motion has really not been adopted. What surprises us is that D66 was actually voting against the entire coalition, plus the SGP, whereas D66 has repeatedly voted in favour of abolishing the list of species that are free to hunt, and has even been included in its electoral programme. If I again make a motion or an amendment today to delete that list of species that are free to hunt, to bring it down to zero, will D66 support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u90	I'm getting a little restless anyway, because this seems almost like an invitation to apply to the Party for Animals. You also know how that all happened! But I regret to disappoint you: I feel very at home with D66, because that is a party that is always focused on the future. Your question was, of course, about the wild list. We actually have a very fragile balance in the law between those species that you can hunt on your own hunting grounds and whose beneficial conservation status is not affected either, and... It seems to me to be a very good thing not to change the balance, as we know it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u91	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u92	I hear they're referring to Senator Prast, who's transferred to the Animal Party. We are very happy about that, but my question is exactly: how is D66 going to vote here in the House of Representatives? I ask this because I hear Mr De Groot talking about the intrinsic value of nature, its importance and the need for it to be secured in the law. I am curious to see how you are going to vote, because it was not only a great wish of the Party for Animals but also of D66 to abolish that list of freely huntable species.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u93	As I said, we now have a fragile balance between those species that you can actually hunt on your own hunting grounds and those species for which you have to apply for an exemption from the province. It's not a perfect system, I say, but it's a fragile balance that I think we should leave untouched.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u94	I look forward to D66's answer to the following. I am listening to Mr De Groot's speech and I am listening to a certain fear of the consequences of the Environment Act. Does the Environment Act bring us closer to the desirable goal of more biodiversity and better nature in terms of nature? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u95	It is, of course, ultimately about what Mr Van Gerven is saying. We need to take those measures that improve our nature, because we have a major biodiversity crisis. This law is simply meant to regulate it in a proper way. We're really gonna improve things with measures. So these are different things. We believe that the Environment Act, apart from our amendment, is a good way of putting this legislative system together. However, we must also note that all laws so far have not been able to prevent our biodiversity from deteriorating so much. That's why we share care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u96	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u97	(NL) Mr President, I take it that there may be three-way interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u98	No, I have some bad news for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u99	If I've listened carefully, several people have done it in threes after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u100	No, then you didn't listen very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u101	Then I'll try to finish it. I note that there are concerns at D66, and that brings me back to the question of whether the Environmental Law, as it is now being shaped, does not bring us backwards rather than forward. We have to note that the standards introduced in the Environment Act are coarser than in the laws of nature we now have, the Law of Nature Management. Shouldn't that lead us to turn a blind eye to ensuring that biodiversity and nature are moving forward rather than backwards? And the latter threatens to happen as a result of this transition to the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u102	We're actually just talking about the systematics today. We come to the supplementary decisions to talk about the standards. As D66, we will ensure that we do not make concessions to the protection of our nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u103	Fine. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. In addition to the history that my colleague from D66 just outlined: in 2012 there was a bill called Mooier Nederland. GroenLinks then submitted this together with the PvdA and D66. I was involved in that as an employee. So I was sorry that Mr De Groot forgot to mention this. It has eventually resulted in the Nature Protection Act, as he said, and today we are in front of the Environment Act. The Environmental Act comes about because more freedom and trust will be given to local authorities for the implementation of their spatial planning plans. The purpose of the law is not to protect things, nor to protect nature. The Council of State also says that it is not certain that there will be a balance between protecting nature and exploiting it at the expense of nature. The first question for the Minister is how she will prevent the balance sheet from going from protection to exploitation. This is one of the reasons why GroenLinks voted against the Environment Act, but that does not mean that we are pulling our hands off it now and not interfering anymore. We want to ensure that the Nature Protection Act is as secure as possible in the new Environmental Law and the Supplementary Law nature. Indeed, the Nature Protection Act has been negotiated for a very long time, and it has actually only been in force since 2017. It would be a shame if the clarity and clarity of this law just disappeared. It's now hidden in three giant decisions. So our plea is also to regulate more at law level. This will improve clarity. GroenLinks can live with a policy-neutral transition from the Nature Protection Act to the Supplementary Act and the Supplementary Decision, but the question remains what the Minister considers to be a policy-neutral transition. I would like to highlight a few non-policy-neutral changes. A first non-policy-neutral change I would like to mention is the fact that there are no further rules on the content of the environmental visions, not at the state level and not at the county level. These are now included in the Nature Protection Act but not in the Nature Supplementary Act. For example, according to the Nature Protection Act, attention should be paid to the conservation and, if necessary, restoration of the favourable conservation status of species and habitats, to the proper functioning of ecosystems in the various natural areas in coherence, to research in the field of biological diversity and to the provincial policy to be pursued with a view to preserving and, where possible, strengthening biological diversity and the sustainable use of its constituents. I have two questions about this. Can the Minister confirm that the above mentioned legal guarantees are lacking in the new system? In what way does the fact that nature and landscape are part of the concept of "physical living environment" guarantee that these elements will soon be included in the environmental vision? We want to prevent the different environmental visions from going too far apart and we will soon have to see in practice whether the environmental visions contain the elements of the Nature Protection Act or not. The danger here is that nature conservation will no longer receive the attention it needs. Protection must also ultimately be guaranteed on the basis of international obligations. I also have a few questions about this. How is the Minister going to ensure that we meet international nature conservation obligations if it does not come back in the visions, and how is she going to monitor this? How does the Minister feel about policy neutrality? The rules are not currently in the law and not in the draft decision. For the overview it is so useful that the rules are included in the Supplementary Act nature, for example by creating a basis in the Supplementary Act to include these provisions in the Supplementary Decision by means of instructional rules. How does the Minister feel about this? Then a second non-policy neutral change. Several concepts defined in Article 1.1 of the Nature Protection Act do not appear in the Supplementary Act or the Draft Supplementary Decision. Some of these are concepts of the Habitats Directive, which, according to the European Court of Justice, have to be implemented accurately in all Member States, as the Council of State has already pointed out in the drafting of the Nature Protection Act. We therefore believe that these concepts should still be included in the system, either by means of the Supplementary Act or the Supplementary Decision. This also applies to the other missing definitions, such as those of the terms "animals" or "plants," so that it is clear that the protection regimes apply to animals and plants at all stages of their development. We have tabled two amendments to this effect. Then there is the third non-policy neutral change that GroenLinks sees, namely the policy weakenings of the Dutch Nature Network. At the end of March, the WUR report entitled Nature and Landscape in the Environment Act became public. This shows that with the current instruction rules contained in the Decision quality living environment, there is a policy weakening of the Nature Network Netherlands. The Minister writes in reply to the questions of our D66 colleague that she does not agree with this and that the provinces expect to reach the agreements of the Natural Pact in time. So it seems that the minister is falling back until it turns out that the targets are being met or not being met and that she does not take action until after the deadline to adjust the provinces. Is this a correct interpretation? What is the Minister going to do to correct the provinces earlier, should it prove prematurely that the provinces are not going to achieve the goals? GroenLinks is convinced that the Netherlands Nature Network is essential for the conservation of nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands. The Minister agrees with us. Our nature is under pressure, so policy weakening is something that must be prevented at all times. With the rules in the Decision quality living environment, the national responsibility is released and much is left to the province. That while the Nature Network Netherlands is just a province-crossing. To prevent us from getting twelve different plans and shredding our nature policy even further, protection at a rich level is necessary. That is why we are in favour of supplementing the rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision, so that it is clear that there is still a no-unless approach and that action can only be taken in the Netherlands Nature Network if there are no alternatives and there is a great public interest. Does the Minister agree with us? Could she promise us that these rules will be maintained in the Quality of Living Environment Decision? Then a few more questions in a little more detail, to understand where the minister is standing. Does the Minister share the view that further infringements of the Netherlands Nature Network should be avoided as far as possible? Is it prepared to include additional safeguards in the regulatory framework in order to avoid a policy weakening? The Nature Protection Act did not enter into force until 2017. It took a long time for this law to come into being. It's too bad this law is going to be completely different now. I also have a few questions about this. The Minister writes in reply to our written questions that experience is now being gained in practice with the application of the Nature Protection Act. What are the recent experiences? Does the Minister agree with us that it is essential that these experiences are taken into account in the implementing decision? How fluent is the transition from the Nature Protection Act to the Natural Environment Act? Can the Minister reflect on this? It also writes that most of the nature legislation is prescribed by European directives and international conventions. But what happens to the anchoring of additional steps that the Netherlands is taking, on top of these international treaties? Finally, like the Party for Animals, I come to speak about the trees. Municipalities find it difficult to properly incorporate the tree regulation, which is covered by the rules for the physical habitat, into the zoning plan. How are they supported by the Empire? In addition, it appears that the cutting of trees is now classified as an environmental planning activity, and therefore an environmental permit should be applied for. The objection period is shortened by the Environment Act from six to four weeks. That makes it difficult for citizens to object. Why was the Environment Act chosen for the four-week objection procedure? That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you. Then Mr Van Gerven of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr. Chairman. It is now about four years since the Nature Protection Act was adopted. This law was certainly not undisputed in its treatment. Through the Nature Supplementary Act, this law is almost integrally incorporated into the Environmental Act, which is called policy neutral, in legislative jargon. But that is striking, not least because the original Nature Protection Act was primarily aimed at meeting international obligations, no more and no less. We all read that in the pieces, but there is a great deal of concern as to how that is going to work out. Shouldn't there be a couple of teeth attached while we're adjusting that law? Should we not do more than simply transfer policy-neutrally, with the necessary risks? Because we read a lot about the declining biodiversity in the Netherlands, about species and plant species that are in danger of disappearing massively. Compared to the early nineties, there are only a quarter of the insects left. These are all crucial issues for our ecosystem, of which we, too, are human beings. The Nature Protection Act did not do enough, we can see. The question is, is it going to be better if we put it in the Environment Act? We can take over Bern's and Bonn's treaties and all that can happen very neatly, but will we get there? The SP's view on this is that we need to do more and also be able to do more. This is particularly true in the Netherlands, the land that partly originated from the sea and actually has very little original nature, but still has a wide variety of natural landscapes. Man has almost always been involved in its creation. So we can do a great deal and we could also do a lot to prevent species disappearing and create biodiversity, rather than just complying with a number of conventions. I would like to hear from the Minister or ministers how biodiversity under this law can increase, and I would like to hear more than references to the conventions I have just mentioned. What efforts will be made in this regard? Then there is the research of the Wageningen University, to which others have already referred. The researchers conclude that the rules for the Dutch Nature Network are watered down in the Decision quality living environment. D66's questions have been answered, in which the Minister writes: the result to be achieved is being steered more firmly. Provinces need to achieve the goals with more administrative discretion. How am I supposed to see that? The provinces get more room to go ahead, so to speak. Then why should they listen to the Minister or the agreements regarding the nature network? I certainly ask myself the same question because there are great differences between the provinces. I myself come from Brabant, a beautiful province. That's where they're bulking up the money, for some reason. Well, they sold an energy company, so there's a lot of money there. After the period-Bleker, a black page in our history in which nature policy in the Netherlands has been seriously frustrated and destroyed, Brabant said: we are going to maintain and realize that nature network. But there are other provinces that don't have that much resources, where financial considerations may be more dominant. How are we going to straighten that out and make sure that the nature network does come into being? Then the fun hunt. That remains the SP a thorn in the eye. These two words should not really be linked together. We are not fighting the need for wildlife management in itself, but we must do so through regulated management, the so-called management hunt, not by people who shoot pheasants with a shot of hail in order to make the animal suffer unbearably. As far as the SP is concerned, therefore, this pleasure hunt does not belong in a modern view of nature management. I have therefore tabled an amendment to ban the most aggressive forms of hunting, the pressure yacht and the drift yacht, in absolute terms, as well as hunting in Natura 2000 areas and other special natural areas. Precisely the pressure and drift hunt, in which animals are hunted to the hunters, disturb nature unnecessarily and hunt in general does so in nature reserves. Hopefully, the cabinet endorses this vision. Finally, the municipalities and the provinces. They are already responsible for a significant part of the responsibilities for nature management and protection. The Minister writes in the bill and letters that in that sense the law is also policy neutral. That's what we can read when we go over the pieces. But the question is: is it going to happen, is it? There are a lot of things going on and one of the corks on which it floats is the Digital System Environment Act. That's gonna depend on it. Municipalities, provinces, water authorities and the Empire must jointly manage a single ICT system and everything must be done in this respect: licence applications and authorisations and access. When I read the public information about the Digital System Environment Act, I see that it is being built up gradually. A sensible commitment given the reputation of the government in the field of large-scale ICT projects, but I am still very concerned. I am also thinking of the recent news about the Dutch Food and Service Authority, where an ICT project is also not working properly. The public information indicates that the Digital System Environment Act will have a basic functionality and that it will be supplemented, but it will have to be fully operational by 2021. What does that mean? What does this difference mean, according to the Minister, and what can a citizen or entrepreneur expect on 1 January 2021 if, for example, he applies for a permit for a construction project? Does this go entirely through the Digital System Environment Act, which contains everything, or does it go through the Town Hall or through a combination of it? What exactly does that basic level mean? What will happen if municipalities are left behind and not fully connected in 2024? Will that municipality then be assisted in the implementation of the Digital System? In other words, what guarantees has this minister created to ensure that the change in the system will succeed if this risky ICT project fails unexpectedly? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u107	One more question from Mr De Groot, briefly and on a point-by-point basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven called for a ban on hunting in Natura 2000 sites. In itself D66 can agree, but of course we have had the whole situation with the Oostvaardersplassen quite recently. I am now looking a bit for the contribution of the SP in Flevoland, but I cannot see the position you have just given at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u109	I have to say that what happened in the Oostvaardersplassen really is a tragedy. It is, of course, decentralised, which should never have happened. That was a policy of a previous cabinet. The power should have simply remained with the national government. What should have happened there is the construction of the OostvaardersWold so that the animals could have gained more space. Then I guess it would have looked much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u110	Fine. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u111	Yeah, but we had that situation back then. And if we do what you propose, there's nothing you can do about it. How do you look at that? You say it should have gone to the Empire. Now you're standing here. We have this situation. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u112	What is Mr Van Gerven going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u113	We agreed with the ICMO 2 proposals. They have given an opinion on how this management should take place there, how it should be done. That's what we've been doing. But the problem was that the OostvaardersWold was not constructed, so that the animals did not have the space to seek more space so that they could have a decent existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u114	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u115	That should have happened, and I'm afraid that didn't happen. And then you come up with second best solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr Van Gerven says: if we had kept it as a Empire, it would not have happened. But it was precisely Mr Bleker who drew a line on behalf of the Empire by the OostvaardersWold. The point is that, at any level of government, there are directors who love nature and who are committed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u117	Sure. But the nature network was built including connecting zones, with the idea that animal and plant species could migrate across the country. That's frustrated by Bleker in particular. Then there was the decentralisation, which led us as a government and here as a Chamber to lose control far and wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u118	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u119	And I still have to see what happens now that it's decentralised, and we've actually lost sight of what's happening to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr Madlener of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A little fresh water, that's good for me. The PVV loves our nature, and I think that applies to all parties in this Chamber. But yes, the Netherlands is also becoming an increasingly busy and fuller country, partly because of the massive import of new people who want to welcome the cabinet into our country. So it's getting more and more crowded in the Netherlands. This also gives us an increasing need for nature, to escape the daily, busy life. We therefore consider the natural areas important not only for the animals and plants, but also for the people. That is why we also want to highlight the accessibility and accessibility of nature in the Netherlands, and we want to promote the development of new nature in the Randstad. Because when a piece of land in Zeeland was flooded for nature, then the Zeeuws were not happy with it. They said, "We've got plenty of that here." But around Rotterdam or The Hague we would of course be very happy with some nature and a place where you can walk quietly. You can also live there, and that is also an important function of nature. The recreational forest, which Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen talked about, is therefore very important to get people to know nature and to realize that we are part of nature. Mr. Chairman. For us nature is therefore very important, and the protection of the few natural areas that the Netherlands still has, we also consider important. But it is precisely from the left that there is also a danger. Because there is now a threat of a proliferation of windmills in the Netherlands, including in those nature reserves. That is why, together with Mr Kops of my group, I have tabled an amendment banning new windmills and large solar parks in nature reserves. Because it really makes sense: in a nature reserve you should not build windmills. First of all, bats, birds and also a lot of insects are flying against those wicks. Secondly, the whole atmosphere and experience of that nature is completely ruined when there is a windmill or a huge solar park is built. Mr. Chairman. I therefore hope for the support of many left-wing groups for this amendment, because we should not want these great industrial matters in the scarce nature of the Netherlands. I am glad to see that two groups are also attracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u122	The first is Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u123	Are there any other threats to nature? Because it is now being thrown very much on the plate of the left-wing parties. Usually we are the ones who protect nature and it is the right-wing parties who bounce all kinds of other hobbies in the same areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u124	That is why I particularly appeal to GroenLinks to support that amendment, because GroenLinks sometimes looks the other way when it comes to threats to nature. Yes, of course there are many threats to nature reserves. The Netherlands does not have so many nature reserves. I think that the Netherlands may have the least nature of all the countries in the world. At least we're gonna be high on that list. So we have scarce nature. We also need a lot of nature, because it's just so scarce. We, too, would like good protection. Hence the amendment to ban windmills and solar parks. I'm hoping for your support. And there are more considerations you have to make when it comes to nature, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u125	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u126	I wasn't talking about considerations; I was talking about threats, things that threaten nature. You will find windmills and solar parks a threat. In some cases, that can certainly be the case. But are there any other threats? Last week we had the debate on the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. You weren't there. That was about the nitrogen that threatens nature. Is that something the PVV is worried about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u127	You get the nature you deserve. Nature adapts to us. So if we do a lot of nitrogen emissions, then we get nature that is adapted to a lot of nitrogen. Then you do get other species. So you can see that sometimes one species does it a little worse and the other one does it a little better. The goose is doing very well, but bad with the grutto. The goose has gotten a lot of habitat and the grutto less, so that's what you get. Then parties like yours will say: oh, the grutto is bad! But yes, the goose is doing well. Of course, you can always vary. Nature actually adapts to us, to what we offer nature. That's the way it works. You can't change that either, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u128	Let me start by saying that I welcome the fact that the PVV group is also committed to nature and landscape. But I do have a question. You have to produce energy. You prefer not to do this in Natura 2000 sites; I agree with you. But yes, we simply have very little space in the Netherlands. You either need those wind farms or you need a coal power plant. If you shut down that coal power plant, you'll protect nature, of course. So I wonder whether Mr Madlener does not agree with me that these windmills are not so crazy anyway, but indeed as much as possible outside Natura 2000 sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u129	Windmills mainly cost a lot of money for the time being, and the full land we have is actually ideally unsuitable for windmills. Those few natural areas we have, where we can still find a little peace and where that bat can still fly undisturbed, shouldn't we build up with windmills? Wouldn't that be the worst thing we could do? The PVV prefers no windmills at all, but in the nature reserves, on land or with people in the backyard is the worst possible place for it. You shouldn't want that either. I therefore hope that you will support the amendment and stop building windmills and solar parks in nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u130	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u131	D66 wants to protect nature, also by reducing nitrogen emissions, for example by closing a coal power plant. Well, I guess we have a different view of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u132	With the closure of a coal power plant you don't have more nature in the Netherlands, and with the placing of a windmill in nature you have ruined nature. I would point out to the spokesman, Mr De Groot, that he is not going to support my amendment. I find that very unfortunate, because it ruins the last nature we have left. We want people, including the elderly and children, to go into nature in particular. So we don't want to shut down nature. Let's make sure we enjoy nature. Finally, I have a small point about light nuisance, in the extension of the CDA. I also notice that so many greenhouses emit so much light at night. Especially in winter you will notice, of course, when it is dark early. I wonder, isn't there still something you can do about that? Because it is indeed very annoying for man and nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you. Then Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Earlier in this context it was mentioned that man is descended from monkeys. I must say that I am glad that I do not have that feeling, that conviction, that I am descended from that family, but that as a creature I came from God's hand and that I also look at nature and the environment. That also brings with it responsibility. That's what we like to refer to by the term "restmaster." We have to manage the Earth as steward. This means not only nature, but also the possibility of economic development, the "building" and "storing" as indicated by a few terms. Mr. Chairman. In itself, it is therefore a good thing that the cabinet has opted for a policy-neutral transposition of the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. I would like to use the momentum to name a few points where the nature rules are sanding with practice and where improvement is possible. First, I want to look at the definition of "natural characteristics." Projects can only continue if an appropriate assessment shows that they do not have a negative impact on the natural characteristics of a Natura 2000 site. This is an important provision in the Habitats Directive. Just think of the recent statement by the Council of State on the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. The question is what is now meant by "natural characteristics" of a natural 2000 area. In Dutch practice, all Natura 2000 species and habitats present in an area are included. This is considerably wider than the interpretation given by the European Court of Justice. These should be the species and habitats that directly led to the selection of an area or which are necessary for adequate rural coverage. In the case law of the European Court of Justice, therefore, this is clearly not a matter of nature. I have tabled an amendment to make this distinction clear in the law. Especially now that the PAS has been shot, it is important to define this carefully. Then there is the comparison with other Member States. The government agreement states that the Cabinet will carry out a comparative study on how EU Member States have implemented different environmental directives, including the Birds and Habitats Directives. Reports have been written, there is still research and the big question now is what the cabinet will do with this. For example, I saw in an investigation that although the legal provisions are similar, the application of the species protection regime varies considerably. In the Netherlands research at individual level and strict explanation of prohibitions applies. Other Member States refer to surveys at population level or use a pragmatic interpretation of the prohibitions accepted by the courts. This makes a big difference for renewable energy projects, for example. I am also thinking of the assessment of the nitrogen deposition. Germany deals with this in a much more flexible way than the Netherlands. I would like to hear what concrete steps the cabinet is going to take in order to get more in line with this. Is the government going to change the nature regulations or come forward with proposals to this effect if necessary? Then I come to the codes of conduct and species protection. A code of conduct can now be used to obtain an exemption for species protection bans. If I understand correctly, an exemption in the new situation will no longer be possible and an environmental permit will have to be applied for. What does that mean for working with codes of conduct? If I do, they're looking at an exemption. Does that apply to all the codes of conduct currently in force? I would like a clarification on that. Then the hunting policy, another popular subject this afternoon. The Minister will evaluate the "hunting" part of the Nature Protection Act. The Minister shall hold a survey of provinces and fauna management units. That makes sense, but I would argue for a broader approach. Also invite hunters, farmers and private landowners. Also take seriously the results of research into the regulatory pressure that hunters have to deal with. Then that could be a good report, which could also make it possible to take steps. The extension of the wild list. We've never put it under seats or couches. Responsible hunting is a form of nature management for the SGP to keep wildlife on track. That also means that you have to be willing to periodically review the wild list critically. This list can be extended to include species which can be eaten as sustainable meat, generally prevented and tolerated. When I look at the hundreds of thousands of grey geese and gooses that occur in our country, these species are also eligible for the wild list. They're causing a lot of damage now, including in nature reserves. The patchwork of exemptions does not make it easier for hunters. Moreover, hunting geese in the breeding season, as is happening now, is undesirable. For species on the wild list hunting takes place in the winter season. Goose don't stick to hunting grounds, I heard the minister say. Yeah, that point makes sense. After all, hunting must take place within the framework of a fauna management plan. My question is therefore: does the Minister wish to involve this in the evaluation mentioned and to adapt the rules accordingly? Finally, attention should be paid to the ban on disturbing hunting. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security recently pointed the finger at the growing eco-activism, which is called very euphemistic. In some cases, I would like to mention ecoterrorism. Hunters also notice that. They are regularly disturbed by activists in activities related to damage control and population management. The police can't do that much because the activists make sure they stay within the rules of demonstration law. The hunters can't start much in terms of security. In the past, there was a ban on deliberately interfering with the hunt for the fight against damage. I have tabled an amendment to re-introduce such a ban and to ensure that the implementation of the fauna management plan cannot be blocked on the spot. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u135	A brief question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u136	I'll try to be brief. I don't know where to start to parry all the actual inaccuracies of the SGP. Firstly, on research: we hope, of course, that the SGP will also want to see objective researchers and animal protectors at the table in order to evaluate hunting policy. Then let's talk about the sustainable game, which would be so good because it's sustainable meat. I hope the SGP knows that the vast majority of meat sold as local game has been bred in bio-industrial conditions abroad, under appalling conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u137	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u138	Wild duck that is eaten here, is stuffed together and has no bathing water. How can the SGP describe this as a sustainable game? How does all this relate to the good stewardship that also concerns the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you for this question. I abstained from interrupting Mrs Arissen. But her speech also raised a lot of questions. Let me focus on the last question on wildlife management, which also draws the difference in approach between the Animal Party and the SGP. Precisely in order to prevent improper, careless and dierron-friendly steps from being taken to promote hunting, you should focus on careful management in the Netherlands. Expulsion of pheasants, yes, that happens. As the Netherlands, you can see to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u140	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u141	You can let go of regulations on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u143	But you don't have the ability to enforce that abroad. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Arissen: let us move forward together and ensure that it is better organised for the Dutch situation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u144	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u145	... instead of strictly banning it and going to war.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u146	Rounding up. Short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u147	The point is that the game that is sold as wild is not wild at all. It hasn't lived in nature at all. It was bred in the bio-industry to be sold here as wild. That's not sustainable. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I don't see the Animal Party pulling up in this with the SGP. I would, however, like to suggest that, if the hunting policy is evaluated, objective research results will be involved and objective scientists and animal protectors will also be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u148	Sure. I wholeheartedly support the latter, but these are not usually the figures the Party for Animals is about to present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u149	Clear. Thank you. We are on our way to dinner, but first our appetizer, Mr. Weverling. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u150	You're setting the bar high, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I've never been announced like this. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands has a thing for nature. We heard it again this evening: many Dutch people enjoy our country every day that knows many faces. The Wadden region, the Veluwe, the Biesbosch, everyone knows these areas and comes with great pleasure. But also in cities, more and more attention is paid to nature and biodiversity. For example, the call for more greening in cities has become stronger in recent years. We are talking today about the Nature Supplementary Act of the Environment Act. My colleague Antoinette Laan has already indicated in previous debates on the Environment Act that the VVD is a strong supporter of this law. It is a good thing that responsibility for the physical environment lies with municipalities. Municipalities and provinces have the best view of the challenges and the solutions to matters that play on their territory, including in the field of nature. As I said, everyone has a thing for nature. In a country like the Netherlands, this is almost impossible, precisely because of the relatively small area of our country. In this way we do not escape to intervene in nature every now and then. An example of this is population management. In order to prevent damage to nature and agricultural land, we try to keep animal populations manageable in various ways. In recent months there has been a social debate about whether or not to extend the wild list. Several parties in this Chamber have drawn attention to this in their written contributions. This discussion stems from the growth of the populations of certain animals, such as the dam deer, the red deer and the goblin. The Minister indicated that, at the end of this year, an evaluation will be carried out with the provinces with regard to population management, among other things. Is the Minister of LNV prepared to include a possible extension of the wild list in this evaluation while at the same time broadening the consultation group? It would be nice if the resulting social debate with LNV were to take place, so that action can be taken if there is a need for it. Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday evening we talked in this room about the former Programme Approaching Nitrogen, the PAS. The consequences of the ruling of the Council of State are great. I would like to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the ruling of the Council of State affects the bill we are discussing here today. If this is the case, the VVD seems important to keep the municipalities and provinces well informed. The question is, of course, whether the Minister agrees with me. In any case, it is important that the municipalities are properly supported. My colleague, Mr Laan, has asked about the sharing of knowledge and skills between provinces and municipalities and how the Ministry can be supportive. I would like to put the same question to the Minister of BZK in the context of the Nature Supplementary Act. How is the Minister going to ensure that all the municipalities, big and small, are properly equipped with these new responsibilities? Is there any possibility for municipalities to promote sharing of knowledge among themselves? The Minister states that the level of protection is not affected. How do we ensure that this does not happen? Mr. Chairman. Municipalities currently also have responsibilities in the field of nature. Over the past few weeks we have seen this again in the approach of the oak procession caterpillar. In recent years there seems to be a large increase in this; there is talk of a triple. Despite the fact that the municipalities are leading here, I would like to ask the Minister of LNV if she can be supportive in the approach. It is precisely because this problem is getting bigger and affects public health that LNV's help seems appropriate. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Is it also willing to examine the current guidance that applies when dealing with the oak procession caterpillar to see if it is up-to-date? I can imagine that there will be some kind of central website with information for residents and agencies. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u151	I'm suspending until 8:00. Then we will listen to the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u152	I would like to give the floor to the Minister of the Interior for the first-term answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill for the Nature Supplementary Act to the Environment Act. I am pleased to be here again today with Mr Schouten and to deal with this bill, which has been prepared in the permanent committee on Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Just as in the Cabinet several directors are responsible for parts of the system review of environmental law, this is the case in your Chamber. We deal with products from the committees for LNV and I&W when it comes to noise and soil and those for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. It is good to see that there is a very broad involvement in this system review in the Chamber. With the addition of this law to the Environment Act, an integrated, coherent approach to the whole environment, including nature, is made possible. The Environmental Law is there to help us with important societal challenges: a healthy living environment for humans, nature and animals, but also the energy transition and climate adaptation. In addition, with the Environment Act, we put into practice administrative innovation with participation in advance and with a more equal information position between citizens and government through better cooperation between all levels of government and transparency about rules and decision-making. It is a special route and also quite a complex route, with the Environment Act, the introduction law, the supplemental laws and the AMvBs that go with it. Step by step, we are actually building a new system together with the other governments. Your Chamber is involved in every step, now in integration with nature law. With the Supplement Law nature nature becomes part of the system of the Environment Act. The balance between protecting and exploiting the physical environment is central. Due to the integration of nature, these interests are also consistently and on time taken into account in environmental visions, plans and decisions about the physical environment. For example, nature can be taken more easily and especially at the front of the project or plan and linked to other interests. I would like to give an example, although of course there are many others: the planned zoning plan with extended scope under the Crisis and Recovery Act in the ENCI quarry in Maastricht, a former limestone quarry. It will largely be returned to nature. On the ground there will also be room for smaller activities. Both the protection of the environment and future developments and the protection of the nature to be developed are regulated in the zoning plan with the wider scope. Moreover, it is still necessary to consider the possible consequences of the PAS ruling. Unfortunately, we will now have to pronounce that spelling formula more often. Under the Environmental Act, such developments will be made possible through an environmental plan. Very important is the starting point that the Nature Protection Act is policy neutrally integrated into the Environment Act. I will come back to that in a moment. The Nature Protection Act already took account of the advent of the Environmental Law........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ All these components must, of course, be made appropriate and integrated. Your Chamber has rightly drawn attention to this. For example, there will be a connection to the instruments in the Environment Act. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the system. The Environment Act actually combines all substantive rules into four AMvBs. That basic choice was made in the Environment Act. Why is that? Because it is important to make it all transparent and accessible to everyone who has to work with it: governments, citizens, and businesses. In this way, it is also possible to implement European and international law on time by guaranteeing in the law itself, i.e. key elements that are laid down in the Environmental Law itself. These are the social goals, the most important instruments, legal protection, supervision, enforcement and so on. The same goes for nature. Mr Schouten will go into more detail later on, for example, the designation decisions for Natura 2000 sites, management plans, fauna management plans, hunting and that sort of thing. It is also important to note that Parliament's involvement is always guaranteed, because amendments have been adopted in the handling of the Environment Act which strengthen Parliament's control. There will be a pending procedure for the creation of AMvBs. This always ensures that the Chamber is involved in setting standards, including at AMvB level. These also apply, of course, to the Nature Supplementary Act. In other words, there is an Environment Act that gives guidance to those AMvBs. In doing so, the important principles are enshrined in the law and the main interest is guaranteed at law level. Nature, flora and fauna are all part of the physical habitat. In doing so, we will ensure that there is a system that is transparent and workable for those who are going to work with it. However, I would like to say a few words about the concept of 'policy-neutral', especially since Mr De Groot of D66 emphasized this point. I have just said that the equivalent level of protection is the starting point for the reform of the system. This means in general, not only with nature, but wider, that it does not get better or worse, but just remains the same. There's no other way. But for the supplemental track nature actually has an even stricter starting point: policy neutral. I say that with emphasis. The general principle is: equivalent, an equivalent level of protection. In the case of nature, we have said very emphatically: policy-neutral. This means that it has to be taken over unchanged in substance. That goes for everything. Of course, you may see differences in the legal form. For example, there may be a difference in a definition. For example, what is now called the hunting certificate in the Environment Act becomes an environmental permit for the hunting rifle activity. There are also other examples, where you can see that it is really being taken over unchanged, such as the Natura 2000 permit, the type of protection. That policy neutrality is very important, in particular because Mr De Groot asked for it for nature. With nature we have also defined it specifically because we also think it is important. For Mr De Groot, as he himself has done, it might also be appropriate to explain that the Environment Act translates objectives into standards in three different ways: as an environmental value, for example for air quality, as an instructional rule for governments, for example a safety standard, and as a general rule for citizens in companies. The latter can also be a specific prohibition. There is therefore no order of precedence between these three standards, because as a country you simply have to comply fully with them. As Mr De Groot rightly said, if you are referring to something as an environmental value, then it is required that that standard is quantifiable. So it has to be about measurable or calculating units. A limited number of European standards have been designed as environmental values, e.g. the standard for air quality or water quality standards. If they can't be expressed in measurable units, they're not actually environmental values and instructional rules or general rules are laid down. Those, too, are tough obligations that must be met. My colleague from LNV will deal with the amendment later and with its further clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr Van Gerven has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u155	I have the next question for the Minister. She has indicated that the whole legislative process is actually policy neutral and that it is even sharper in nature. I read in the analysis of this bill the following: "To lay down rules for the protection of nature, which are more severe in comparison with the Nature Protection Act, it is inevitable that the infringement of a number of rules will be subject to a higher maximum penalty." How am I supposed to put that in the statement the Minister just made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u156	May I just ask what Mr Van Gerven is quoting? Then I know where to place it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u157	I think it's an analysis of the Council of State. I thought it was from there. That concludes that, and it is something other than completely policy neutral. That's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u158	I would like to outline how we are putting the system together and how the Nature Protection Act is going to be part of it. One: the system change has opted for the principle of an equivalent level of protection. That is the starting point for the whole reform of the system. For the natural supplemental track, we do this policy neutrally. So these two principles stand out. I am quite prepared to look at the piece from which Mr Van Gerven quotes, in order to clarify that, but that is how this integration has been designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u159	Let me explain. These include "bans for the protection of species of fauna and flora, rules on exotics and provisions on the use of means to catch or kill animals'. It's a little more detailed, so maybe this is also a question for Minister Schouten, but I want to know exactly. Because the way I read it here, it's not entirely policy-neutral. And that must really be the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u160	I don't exactly know the text, but I think this is what's going on here. Policy-neutral does not mean that everything that is now in the Nature Protection Act also ends up in the law. We do the effects in general measures of governance. So it's actually a little rougher in the transposition at the legal level. The fineness is then in the AMvBs, but that does not matter for the level of protection. That's equal. It doesn't matter for policy neutrality. It does matter for the insight. At the moment, it is sometimes very difficult for people who, for example, have to apply for a permit for something, to find where what is written. The idea of the whole system change is that we always choose the same thing. What does the law say? What's in the AMvBs? This makes the system accessible and transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Van Gerven, would you be willing to give the piece you're quoting to the messenger so that the minister can prepare for the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u162	Sure. I'm gonna go get the source, and then the text comes through to the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u165	Then I give the floor to Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u166	I have a question in response to the Minister's answers. She says: not everything comes into the law; some things come into AMvB's. But what about the withdrawal of those AMVBs? Is that what the Chamber's gonna do? We come by speaking of the AMvB's by a veil, but is that also true when we withdraw them? I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u167	That's a very good question. I think it is, and if it isn't... Yes, I am happy to reply in the affirmative to Mrs Bromet, I understand from my officials. Among other things, Mrs Bromet also asked questions about certain procedures and time limits for objections. Her first question, I think, was about the cap permit in the environmental plan, and especially about how the Empire supports the municipalities in transferring those rules to an environmental plan. That happens very intensively. Help will be provided in drawing up example rules. For example, the VNG has already issued a casco-environment plan and made steel maps with example rules, including for a hooding permit. A course has also been started for creating an environment plan. The Empire is actively involved in this and provides assistance. I did not understand from the municipalities that they have experienced or expected specific problems on this point. Then there are the objection periods. In itself, the Environment Act does not alter time limits for appeal or appeal. Those deadlines are laid down in the General Administrative Law Act and they do not change. But I think Mrs Bromet is referring to the fact that something is changing about the entry into force of an environmental plan and an environmental permit for activities with irreversible consequences. I think she was talking about that, because she talked about a four-week period. And that's right: these kinds of decisions come into effect after four weeks. Previously, that was different. Sometimes the term was six weeks, sometimes it was two weeks, sometimes it was four weeks. It has been chosen to propose a four-week period. If someone wants to prevent a decision from coming into force, that person has four weeks to apply for a provisional application. Mr. Chairman. Mr Von Martels of the CDA asked about the problem of light and the scope for consideration that exists there. Light pollution belongs to the local balancing area of municipalities. They can set rules for that in their environmental plan. They can identify locations to prevent light pollution. Mr von Martels' question was, I think, whether municipalities know and whether they do. We have a great deal of attention to this in the implementation programme of the VNG, which I have just spoken about. We will continue to do so. So, even after entry into force, we will continue to do so for a period of about one and a half years to bring that to the attention of the public. So I think there's a lot going on with it. There are hand-outs from the IPO and attention is paid to it on the VNG website. I would like to see with IPO and VNG whether further updating is needed, or whether the integration of the two things that IPO and VNG are doing might be helpful, because I think it is a good point of attention. Mr Madlener asked more specifically how to deal with light pollution from greenhouses. I think we all understand in the Netherlands that this is a point of interest. There are also rules to limit light pollution in the Decision activities living environment. For example, emission rules for lighting, such as taking measures to prevent the light from spreading. This can be very simple, namely by working with canvases et cetera. The goal is to protect the dark landscape. Since the current activity decision already has rules for this, it will also become part of the new system and the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u168	I asked that question because, in my view, it is inadequate. When I drive home in the winter, and it's a bit of a dreary winter day, it starts when I drive out of The Hague and I drive past the Westland.Of course that's obvious.Then I come to my island of Voorne-Putten. I see everywhere of these enormous ones, that is what I always call Chernobyl-like lighting. It's actually very spooky, very nasty. That is precisely the reason for my question. I would like to ask the Minister: do you also give the municipalities a hand in technical possibilities? I'm just making a suggestion. I think there are solutions, like another color light, or actually working with canvases or something like that. Perhaps the entrepreneurs in conversation with the municipalities can find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u169	What Mr Madlener is asking is actually in line with what I have just said. IPO and VNG, in consultation with the Empire, try to reach the companies in a variety of ways and assist the municipalities in doing so. Furthermore, it is mainly a consideration that needs to be made locally. If this still does not happen to a sufficient extent here, in this region or in specific municipalities, it is primarily up to those municipalities themselves to take real action. I do not really know the specific situation that Mr Madlener is talking about. The municipalities where these greenhouses are located must encourage and help companies to do something about this. Mrs Bromet asked about the so-called Nature Network Netherlands. That is the cooperation in which provinces book natural profits. Mrs Bromet asked whether the provinces would be called upon to do so, but of course there is no policy weakening or anything like that in that network. The Empire steers on the result to be achieved. That's what it does with instructions. I am very much concerned here with Mr Schouten, but since this is about provinces, I do the answer anyway. After all, she can always complement me. So we do that with instructional rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. With these rules, we control improvement and stricter demands for compensation. These are requirements such as cohesion, surface, quality and timeliness. In the Natural Pact there are also agreements about this. So we don't take a wait-and-see attitude. I have no evidence that the provinces do not properly protect the nature network. Mr Weverling wanted to know how the PAS pronunciation affected the bill. Actually, he wanted to know if there was any influence and whether the municipalities and the provinces were kept well informed. That's an important question. In the supplementary bill of nature, the ruling as such has no consequences. That is because there is a basis in the Supplementary Act. The Supplementary Act therefore lays down an obligation to adopt an approach to nitrogen. This is a basis that is neutral in nature and is not included in the programme. In other words, that basis is good. It is also part of the law, and therefore no irreversible steps are taken towards a future new approach to this problem. We need that basis anyway, and we need to resolve the issue that has arisen in any way. The elaboration of this basis takes place only in the Supplementary Decision nature. As we discussed here last week, together with Mr Schouten and Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen, we are actually mapping everything. Furthermore, we also think about how to deal with it. The supplementary decision therefore also offers the opportunity to include it in it. Municipalities and provinces are very well involved in this work. In fact, we need them very much. So we work intensively with them. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions about the so-called DSO, the Digital System Environment Act. Mr Van Gerven asked about it. Actually, he asked about the basic level and whether it would all be ready in time. We have agreed that when the Environmental Act enters into force we can provide the basic level of service in that digital system. This is similar to the current service level of the Environment Window online, the Activity Decision Internetmodule and spatial plans.nl. In the national facilities, digital applications for permits and notifications can be made under the Environmental Act. The activities of the current Nature Protection Act that have no spatial impact, e.g. hunting rifle activities and falconier activities, can not yet be requested through the DSO but via the National Entrepreneurship Agency. We will, of course, organise a reference over and over again. Will it be ready in time? Yeah, I expect so. We monitor that very closely. We aim to ensure that the basic level of national provisions is ready a year before the law enters into force. For example, all governments that have to work with them have plenty of time to adapt and connect to their own systems. So they can also practice in that year to see if it works well enough. The main digital standards are already available, and that means that governments and the software providers needed to do so can already start with these systems. We also have the Inter-Governmental Program Getting started with the Environmental Act that is clear with an online development portal to support governments and suppliers. This year I was there in Lelystad this spring, a try-out version of the rural facilities has also been delivered. There is therefore a great deal of attention to be paid to it. We are very aware that not every digitization exercise has always gone well. It is very important, because it is really supportive of the system that this route is delivered on time and operates on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u170	I'm a little more pessimistic. I hope the signals aren't on deep red. The Minister says no, but can I conclude from this that the national system will be ready on 1 January 2020 and that the municipalities will have another year to join it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u171	Yeah, that's exactly what I just outlined. It's true. In that year, of course, you can also practice, experiment and ensure that any problems are identified and resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u172	How can we control this as a parliament? Are we going to be able to get a report on exactly how things are going through the Secretary of State on January 2nd or perhaps a little later? I find it extremely optimistic what the Minister is putting forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u173	I'm an optimist, but I'm also trying to be a realist in this process. I have agreed with this and with the Senate, which also has a great deal of interest in the subject, to report progress periodically. You are one Chamber and the progress report goes to all Members of Parliament. So also this committee, sitting here in plenary, can see in that progress report whether we are on track. If we are not on schedule, I will of course report that in those progress reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u174	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, the only thing I wanted to add is that I have answered the questions about the system and related matters, I think that we will, of course, also pay sufficient attention to the introduction support and so on for the Supplementary Nature Act. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr Moorlag is still here. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u177	Let me put this first: here is a broad eye for the importance of nature, its values and its protection. I have also wrestled with the question of setting additional standards. This does not relate well to the system of the law, which is aimed at more weighting space, nor at policy neutrality. For this reason, I have come up with the proposal to include a duty of justification in the explanatory memorandum of environmental plans, in order to make it clear exactly how the weighting of nature interests takes place, and possibly to introduce a ladder for this. This affects the regulatory system. I am therefore curious to hear the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u178	I need to take a look. That was about nature, about policy content. That is why I assumed that Mr Schouten would answer this question. She nods. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u179	Then I suggest you wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u180	One remark: this is a system in the footsteps of something that is also included in the ro-system, namely the Ladder for sustainable urbanization. That is why I thought that this would be in this minister's area of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u181	Perhaps I should suggest that you wait and see what Mr Schouten's answer is. Then, of course, you can always assess whether that was insufficient in your view, also from the perspective of spatial planning. But I have every confidence in it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u182	Well. We're gonna hear it. A little changement. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As my colleague Mr Ollongren has already pointed out, we are talking today about the Supplementary Nature Act to the Environment Act. That's a big law. I was just talking to Mr Van Gerven about the fact that it is quite extensive what we are doing. But it is also just the first step in the process of integrating the current Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. I can say to Mr Ollongren that we ensure that this happens in such a way that the level of protection of nature remains at least the same as that of the Nature Protection Act. Nature is incredibly important; some of your members have already mentioned it. Nature is necessary. It's the basis of our existence. Nature is also beautiful. We all enjoy it and sometimes even get moved by it. But nature is also vulnerable, and therefore deserves protection. Mr. Chairman. With today's discussion of the bill for the Natural Environment Act, we are taking another important step in this respect. It's only been two years since the Nature Protection Act came into force. That law already provided for an important simplification of nature legislation and also a better connection with environmental law. That law also provided for the legal anchoring of the decentralisation of territorial policy and the implementation of nature policy to the provinces. So now we are on the next step, the integration of nature rules into the Environment Act. I understand that there is a discussion about whether to do so in this way, but I would like to emphasise the importance of this integration. This immediately makes it clear that nature is an integral and integral part of the living environment. If you had to apply for a permit now, the competent authority had, so to speak, to impose the law itself to see how that all relates to each other. You'll see that in one go. And that is incredibly important, also to show that nature is simply full. It's not wrong, it's part of the game. We'll make that possible with this. It is thus also more involved in the integrated policy visions of municipalities, provinces and the Empire, as well as in the further development of these visions and in the concrete decisions. The Environmental Act is also based on participation. It is not only the Empire; we are also doing this with each other, with the provinces but also with the agricultural sector and the whole of society, for example. Once again, this must be done politically neutrally, because the law is mainly a different system, but not one in which we are going to ignore the rules that we have already set with each other. The substantive framework of standards and the instruments are the same and the powers remain where they are now. Mostly in the provinces, then. Nature rules must be incorporated into the system of the Environment Act. That can lead to small differences. A number of your Members have already noted this. These differences can be seen, for example, in the terminology: "derogation" becomes "environmental permits." The Environment Act also assumes trust and cooperation between the competent authorities. That is also the way we are already working. Questions were asked about the role of the Empire vis-à-vis the provinces. We are not hierarchically over the provinces; it is not that I can say to the provinces: you must do this or that. But that's not the way we work together either. We have agreements with each other, for example about how we want to shape Nature Network Holland and what its ambitions are. This cooperation will only become more intensive with this law, because we must continue to shape it with each other. After the summer I will have a conversation with the newly appointed delegates to discuss this type of matter. Just by looking at nature in such an integral way and by involving other ambitions and tasks, the importance of nature and the need to cherish and protect our nature are only strengthened. The scope for balancing European rules is also maintained, with a good balance between protecting, exploiting and experiencing nature. Mr. Chairman. That was my introduction. I now come to the specific questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u184	Mr Moorlag has a question for you about the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u185	That introduction sounds like a warm bath. But if you look at the state of nature... I agree with the terminology used in the Minister's circles: the concept of stewardship, Genesis 2:15; I spoke about it with Mr Bisschop recently in the margins of a note-taking meeting. The core of it is that you keep the natural capital and that you only harvest the interest? My question to the Minister is: if you look at the development of nature in recent decades, can you say that the capital has been maintained and that we are only reaping?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u186	"The past few decades" is a rather extensive timetable, let me put it this way. I see that we have problems with nature. And then not "calls" in the atmosphere of "must," but also the task to ensure that we shape nature well. I mentioned the Netherlands Nature Network. There are still some tasks to be accomplished, I repeat that to Mr Moorlag. So that's what we're working for. Can you always say that in a certain area there is nature, that you can only harvest from it and that you can't do anything else with it? I believe that Mr von Martels has already indicated that some places have had a living environment. And then living environment in the literal sphere: that people have gone to live or work or whatever. These are always considerations that you have to make at a decentralised level, sometimes at a rich level. Well, that's the discussion you're having. Do we still have a task for our nature? I believe that Mr Moorlag mentioned 'preservation and processing'. It's also management and editing, so to speak. We have to keep it together, absolutely. We have to take action on that, absolutely. And that there are still some issues, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u187	I'll keep it shorter for the sake of time, but you can see all the reports on biodiversity decline and you can read that the quality of some parts of nature is deteriorating. In line with the concept of stewardship, which assumes that you maintain the capital and that you only harvest the proceeds, the products, can you not say that the stewardship requirement is met?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u188	But I also point out that we have a lot of things to do, don't I? The same applies to biodiversity. Last Monday I talked to you about our implementation plan for the LNV vision. I also said at the time that the best nature policy is a good agricultural policy. We need to look at things much more closely, not all as loose pieces, "we need something on nature," "we need something on agriculture," "we need something on housing" or whatever. No, the art is to look at this much more integrally. I really believe that what we are doing here with the Environment Act is contributing to this. Because nature is an integral part of decision-making. Perhaps the problem has been that we have all done so far too fragmented before and that it went side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u189	I am pleased that the Minister indicates that there are still very great successes to be made in the realization of the Netherlands Nature Network and the nature goals. But doesn't the Minister agree with the Animal Party that there is indeed a risk if you decentralise the responsibility for achieving the nature goals, so if you decentralise the elaboration of permits and exemptions to provinces and municipalities? There could be a risk of decisions being taken there earlier on the basis of short-term interests or of limited expertise on European frameworks and legislation, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mrs Van Kooten assumes that there will be a change now, but that is all already decentralised. It is already largely located in the province or with local authorities. This law doesn't change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u191	Well, I can see that certain land management frameworks for the provinces are now also being decentralised to the municipalities. My question to the Minister is whether she sees a danger or a risk that, because of the limited expertise of municipalities, nature objectives could not be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u192	No. What we are going to lay down are the standards. What we are going to record, and what is going to take place in the decisions, is a practicalisation of how to include everything that is in the law in the licensing and that sort of thing. Especially if you want to give a licence as a competent authority, you will really have to go through those steps in order to be able to issue that licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u193	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u194	Yes. I come to Mr von Martels' questions. I'd like to be the first to welcome him as a new naturalist. It's a beautiful wallet! I hope he enjoys it as much as I do. He asks if I am prepared to look more closely at the implementation of the Natura 2000 sites. How are we supposed to apply it? In Natura 2000 sites, management shall aim at restoring and developing the special habitats and species for which that site has been designated. In doing so, the quality of the area is also dealt with selectively. So the selectivity he advocates is already being worked on. Am I willing to look for a better compensation for damage in hunting? The Fauna Fund is managed by the joint provinces. That is already the case. The provinces may also choose to place more species on provincial exemption lists. That's their jurisdiction. In addition, interested parties will no longer be able to rely on the Fauna Fund for compensation for the damage. The provinces make this assessment. This law does not change that, but I will look together with the provinces at the functioning of the current fauna management system to see if any improvements can be made. Do I want to talk to municipalities to develop a wild and green management program? I actually heard Mr von Martels go a little wider, because he also linked it to the question of the oak processionrups. I don't know if he wanted to see that separately or together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u195	Mr. Von Martels, an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u196	I would indeed like to see it broad. It is not just a question of the Japanese thousand knot or the oak procession caterpillar. It is also about improving biodiversity in municipalities. One municipality deals with it, the other like that. It would be welcome for certain learning projects to be made available or for more direction to be given. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u197	I'll come back later on the oak processioner. Other Members have asked questions about this. Just as specific on this point: the province is now the point of contact for the municipalities. It is also the province that knows what is needed in a particular area. It is competent to do so, but it also sets out, for example, the fauna management plans for the province, from which you can deduce what that means for a particular municipality. I think, on the contrary, that the distance from the Empire to the municipalities is very large, and that is why I would like to keep it with the provinces. I can talk to the provinces and ask them to give a little more direction, even to the municipalities, to do it. But to play a role in that now as a Empire, the distance is very large. So it also depends on the specific fauna management plans in the provinces, but I will include this in a discussion with the provinces. Then the execution of the motion on the wolf. That's always a popular subject, including the naturalists. There are always some differences between the natural speakers about how the wolf is looked at, but we like to talk about it. How's it going? There is now consultation with the provinces to hold a social debate on the wolf. That's what the motion asked for. It is agreed that there will be another public investigation into the acceptance of the wolf, as we did before the wolf returned to the Netherlands. The implementation of that motion is therefore ongoing. Mr Ollongren has already mentioned a number of issues on the subject. Then I come to Mr Moorlag. He had more of a core question about the ladder. Shouldn't you be developing a ladder to weigh nature's interests and include it in the AMvB? In that context, he also said: now we are stacking rules on rules and that makes it more complicated. I'd like to nuance the latter. We do not stack rules on rules, where this can be closely linked to what is required at European level. That only makes it clearer in that sense: if you know what European is required, you know what we are actually taking with us. The Birds and Habitats Directives already provide a strict assessment framework, both for Natura 2000 sites and for all wild birds and vulnerable species. That framework of standards of the Birds and Habitats Directive is again included in the Natural Environment Act. That is exactly what we are going to do. That decision will include a specific duty of care, in which a number of elements will return, as I have just heard Mr Moorlag mention. There is no need for a separate ladder, as the general principles of good governance require that each decision be justified. It's double-crossing to say that you have to go back and include motivational requirements. The legislation is already strict, and in that sense it is clear what needs to be followed. If we now have to add this again, it will lead to additional administrative and administrative burdens. It's locked in the system. This was just gonna get back on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u198	I see that Mr Moorlag feels differently. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u199	I do not simply share the view that this leads to additional burdens, because every environmental plan needs to be explained. It would simply fit in well with the integral consideration that the explanatory memorandum should also be well motivated in how nature is protected and restored. On the contrary, I want to get away from the urge to regulate more and more by standards. That's the reflex, isn't it? I understand that very well, because the quality of nature is still not in order, but I think it would be very helpful if fellow governments made very explicit in their explanatory statement how they want to protect and improve the quality of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u200	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u201	Perhaps I could make a very brief comparison, Mr. Chairman. In the past we thought we could arrange the spatial planning for the outside area well with the red contours of my party colleague Jan Pronk, with red contours everywhere around the built area. We let that go at some point. That's what the Ladder for sustainable urbanization came back for. It's in that thinking, so not working with red contours, but just working with a good motivational obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u202	The time of the red contours was a little bit before my time, but I actually hear Mr Moorlag say two things. On the one hand, he says: you have to motivate it properly. I agree, but he says himself that it's already in the environmental permit, so what do you add? On the other hand, I hear him say that you should also give some consideration to the competent authority at the decentralised level. That is just the discussion I had with Mr Moorlag. We're not there yet. We still have quite a few goals to achieve around nature. If you say that we do not have to abide by these standards and that we have to give the competent authority some sort of room for manoeuvre, then I think we are going to have another discussion here next time. I think you will ask: 'Why are these standards not being met? They're in the law, aren't they?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u203	A brief interruption, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u204	It is not my intention to let go of the standards immediately. Then let me put it this way. Would the Minister be prepared to discuss this with the co-governments? Because the Ladder for sustainable urbanization is well internalized in provinces and municipalities. So is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the co-governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u205	That's what you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u206	I'm still looking for what this adds to what we have now. We have a duty of motivation. At the same time, we have the set of standards and also what that means in practice. Applying a balancing framework or ladder suggests that there would still be room there. I think that is a complicated one, precisely because this law clearly outlines that framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u207	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u208	Then I come to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who had a passionate story about the importance of nature. That's how we know her. She has talked about this quite extensively and involved all kinds of things. I'm trying to put the focus in the answer a little more on the questions that relate to this law. She asks: can legislation contribute to the destruction of nature? That suggests this law would do that. I really want to fight that, because the supplemental track nature takes over the existing framework of standards for nature protection unchanged in the Environment Act and related AMvBs. This also involves the strict framework of the Birds and Habitats Directives. That directive is based on a high level of protection, as the European Court of Justice regularly repeats, and on a strict precautionary principle. In other words, the law protects; it does not destroy. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen also asks if I can guarantee that the law is nitrogen proof. I think that Mr Ollongren has already mentioned this in relation to the PAS statement. What is the logic behind harvesting with the robust nature that is intended? The idea behind it is that if populations of species are strengthened and natural areas are improved in quality, the whole is also more robust against degradation. Mrs. Van Kooten knows that, too. If you make it stronger, it could have more. Social developments and economic growth cause effects on nature. Nature must be able to carry and for that it is important that it is more resilient and resilient to ensure that we can maintain it. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has asked some specific questions and has also tabled amendments to them. I shall come to the amendments later, because that runs through a little bit. Sometimes that is also taken into account in the question. It is about the cutting of forests in the breeding time of birds and the carrying time of mammals. She says that there are now non-binding rules and a code of conduct and asks me to ban it altogether. Tree cutting requires an environmental permit, because it is a flora and fauna activity. It's not like they're all non-binding rules and codes of conduct. It's also a matter to include in the laws and regulations. The breeding time of birds and the carrying time of mammals should then be taken into account. How can the intrinsic value of animals be recognised if they are also allowed to be shot at, asks Mrs Van Kooten. What does recognition of intrinsic value in the law mean for protection? The law recognises the intrinsic value of nature as part of the objectives of the law. Partly against this background, rules are drawn up, under the Environmental Law, to protect vulnerable species and areas. That does not mean that an individual animal should never be killed. For example, other interests, such as the fight against damage or aspects of security, must also be taken into account. This is subject to a strict European balancing framework. In the case of hunting, there is also the fact that the hunting right is part of the right of ownership, and that also has a certain recognition. So the law is broader, which means that it is not the case that an individual animal should not be killed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u209	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u210	I have two more questions from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u211	Yes. You want to wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u212	Yes. She is also asking for a banishment of forests, or I can confirm that this bald forest makes forests more environmentally unstable and climate-sensitive. Bald cap doesn't happen very often in practice, but sometimes trees have to be removed, for example because there is a disease. The ash branch mortality is unfortunately very topical at the moment because of the achievement of nature goals or for other reasons, such as safety or the expansion of residential areas. That's what happens. Making forests built for wood production varied by promoting a more diverse composition that reduces the vulnerability of forests is really a goal, also to ensure that ecosystems are more resistant to climate change. On the contrary, it is always those considerations that need to be made. Sometimes there are good reasons why you have to cut down forests. At the same time, the awareness of the need for a varied forest and the truly selective removal of trees is certainly present. Then there is the more specific question about the production forest and the multifunctional forest. Why should this be counted as a protected nature reserve, asks Mrs Van Kooten. With regard to Nature Network Netherlands with the decentralisation of nature policy, the limitation and protection of the nature network is to the provinces. Multifunctional forests can in principle be part of a nature network. Production forests are forests which are not subject to the obligation to replant and are therefore of an agricultural nature. Such forests do not have the function of nature and will therefore not be part of a natural network.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u213	And with that, you have passed through Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u214	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u215	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u216	I had another question about the boar hunt in connection with the wolf, but I have two other questions on the Minister's answer. Shall I ask it first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u217	Let's see. The wolf. Was it no longer generally about hunting and about the intrinsic value of the animal in relation to hunting? I wrote that down. Wasn't the question specific about the number of animals that increase when you hunt them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u218	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is going to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, it was the example of a wolf couple who settled on the Veluwe with their young, while the wild boar hunt started on the Veluwe on 1 July, with night vision goggles and other equipment. With rough guns the wild boar is hunted after, but we also have a duty to leave the wolf alone. So if you're gonna hunt the pigs, you're gonna get into the wolf's habitat or territory. This does not seem to me to be very consistent with the precautionary principles. I do not come to the word, I am sorry, or with what is laid down in the law for the protection of the wolf and the territory. Let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u220	It's not like because there's a wolf couple now, the whole hunt can't go on in such an area. You have to take other natural values into account, including hunting and the like. One wolf pair doesn't mean you can't allow the whole hunt anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u221	I understand that the wolf is a protected species, that you must leave it alone, and that you must not disturb its territory with hunting activities on swine with silencers, night vision goggles and coarse artillery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u222	The wolf itself is a protected species, so you can't actively hunt it. You're welcome to take measures to prevent that from happening to you. That requires something from the hunters themselves. They have to pay attention, but they already have to, because there are even more protected species in such an area. They can't hunt them either. They must therefore always take this into account. It's not like there's suddenly no more hunting in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u223	You had two other questions. Are you immediately interrupting the other issue in the following direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u224	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The Minister talks about the intrinsic value of nature. Isn't it about the intrinsic value of the wild animal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u225	I just need to get my answer. You have the intrinsic value of nature and in the Animal Law we have recorded the intrinsic value of the animal. The intrinsic value of the animal is thus already in the law, but not in this law. I don't have it like this right now. Nature itself also has a value, an intrinsic value. That's why we treat that nature very carefully. Where that is not yet done, we must improve it. That's what this law sees as well. I do not really understand what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is referring to with her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u226	I think it's about animals being part of nature. If nature has an intrinsic value, you would say that wild animals also have an intrinsic value, a value in themselves. To intervene in animal populations through hunting and to hunt these animals without purpose or necessity, especially when it comes to the list of species that are freely huntable, seems to me to be in great contradiction with the value of nature and the intrinsic value of the animal that follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u227	The intrinsic value of the animal is already established in the Animal Law. You don't need this law for that, legally. I think Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question is whether you want to hunt in such an area. I've indicated that there are several reasons why you should go hunting. This has to do with the management of a population because there may be diseases or for other reasons. It is therefore not true that because nature is protective, that automatically means that there should be no hunting in such an area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u228	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u229	Yes. I come to Mr De Groot's questions. He actually made one big argument about his amendment. I hope that Mr De Groot will agree with me when I come back to the amendments. I think that's the most obvious thing, because otherwise we're gonna double-up. Then I come to Mrs Bromet's questions. She has asked quite a few more specific questions. She's talking about the no-unless principle. She asks whether I can promise that these rules will be retained in a decision and not lost in this change. The no-unless the principle is developed in the rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision for the assessment of applications for the environmental permit for flora and fauna activities. That is also in line with the Birds and Habitats Directives. This will also include the Supplementary Decision nature. The veil of the Supplementary Decision will be after the summer. Then Mrs Bromet can check whether that is sufficient. She says the rules are not in the law, but they are in the draft decision. She asks if we can include this for the overview in the Supplementary Nature Act and whether we can include provisions to include instructional rules in the decision. Some rules were mistakenly not included in the consultation version of the AMvB. This was also mentioned in the comments. In the front page version, that will be restored. Mrs Bromet's question looks at something broader; I also think about the amendments she has tabled on the definitions she wants to include in the law. I propose that I also deal with this when we go through the amendments. Can I confirm that the law lacks a guarantee for the rules on the content of the vision? And in what way is the fact that nature and landscape are part of the concept of physical habitat a guarantee that they come back in the view of the Environment? She wants to have a little more clarity about the certainty. In the explanatory memorandum, the cabinet made a commitment that the aspects mentioned in the Nature Protection Act, which should be dealt with in the nature vision, should also be addressed in the Environmental Vision. This means that, among other things, we need to focus on the preservation and restoration of a favourable state of conservation, conservation and restoration of landscapes, sustainable management of forest fires, biodiversity research and the consequences of climate change. We explicitly included that commitment in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u230	Mrs Bromet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u231	Does that mean that these aspects will also be reflected in the Environment vision? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u232	These aspects may come back, among other things. It can also go a little wider than that. In the explanatory statement, we have indicated that this is part of the legal history of the company that these aspects should also be taken into account in the Environmental Vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u233	So you don't mean "among other things" but "at least"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u234	Then I'll just have to get the explanatory statement. But what it says here is that "among other things" these aspects are addressed. It seems to me that it can be wider than that. But in concrete terms, what exactly does Mrs Bromet mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u235	It's about the terms nature and landscape. They're pretty crucial. We, as GroenLinks, believe that they should also come back in the Environmental Vision and not "among other things" but "at least." Because with "among other things" you can put anything in it, except nature and landscape, which is just so important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u236	I'm just gonna take a look back for a second. I'll get back to you, Mrs. Bromet. I want to know very specifically how to read "among other things." We'll check it out. How do I deal with rules on top of international treaties? In Dutch nature law, we know one part that goes beyond what the EU or a treaty requires. That is the protection of mammals that are not protected by the Habitats Directive. They are reptiles and amphibians. You should think about the tie, the squirrel and the hedgehog, for example. For these species conservation in itself is not at stake. Protection is nevertheless desirable, because of the broad social conviction that these animals need special protection. There is therefore more to it than is required in the European or international treaties. Mrs Bromet also asked how I am going to ensure that we meet international targets if they do not return to the Environment Vision. How am I going to monitor this and is there still policy neutrality? The international targets have been translated into the next Habitats Directive and into concrete obligations for the protection of sites and species. They're being legally transposed. These objectives are also taken as a starting point for policy. Think for example of the policy for the Netherlands Nature Network or the approach for the meadow birds. This policy must be integrated into the Environment vision. Nature is an integral part of the environment. How am I going to prevent the balance from protecting to exploiting? That was one of the first questions Mrs Bromet asked. The rules laid down under the Nature Supplementary Act provide protection for vulnerable species and areas. Harmful activities are only permitted if it is ensured that the quality of the areas is not affected. For the species, all harmful activities are prohibited, unless there are specific justifications listed by law: there should be no alternatives and the sustainable survival of the population should not be compromised. So we're back to the no-unless principle. So the balance doesn't go too far. And then there's another check, because the PBL monitors on this, too. This will enable us to determine whether this is the case in practice. How do I want to prevent policy weakening from taking place in relation to the Nature Act, because provinces, for example, do not achieve targets? For example, is the formulation in the Quality of Living Environment Decision a policy weakening in relation to the Nature Network Netherlands? The planological protection of the Netherlands Nature Network in the Decision quality living environment is broadly in line with the current provisions in the so-called Barro. Some improvements have been made as a result of a recommendation from the 2013 Nature Compensation Steering Committee's opinion, the 2014 General Court report and the 2016 Van Veldhoven motion adopted by the Dutch Parliament, inviting the government to ensure that high-quality compensation is guaranteed. One of the recommendations of the General Court was that the protection and thus the sustainable survival and quality of the compensation nature should be guaranteed. The Quality of Living Environment Decision meets this requirement. This not only strengthens the protection of the Dutch Nature Network, but can also be steered more firmly on the result to be achieved. We therefore do not believe that there is any question of a weakening of the WUR that would have said so. At the same time, the decentralisation of nature policy has been taken into account. In the Decision quality of living environment is not so much defined as the mode of protection as what, in addition to adequate planning protection of the essential characteristics and values of the nature network. We believe that this has been sufficiently secured in this way. Mr President, those were Mrs Bromet's questions, as far as I have been able to check. So I shall come back to the amendments. I come to Mr Van Gerven. He had first put a question to Mr Ollongren concerning the equivalent level of protection. This is also mentioned in the note on the report. That's what it's about, among other things, the measure of punishment. That is what Mr Van Gerven was referring to. He asks if the Supplementary Act is coarser than the Nature Protection Act. The law is indeed. After all, it is a framework law. That is, of course, also the whole system of the Environment Act. But at AMvB level, the standards of the Nature Protection Act are very accurately transposed. Only the criminalisation of acts takes place at a legal level. Then some facts are included in more general categories. There is therefore the difference which Mr Van Gerven rightly points out. This can lead to smaller acts being sometimes provided with a slightly higher level of punishment as part of such a category. But that is very limited. So it really is in his mind that the penalty is not in the AMvB, but in the law and that you get a sort of categorization there. Punishment is even a little higher in that. I can imagine that Mr Van Gerven would agree with that. It doesn't weaken the penalty. Then he asks how this law can increase biodiversity. The legal protection of nature is only one aspect. In addition, active measures are needed to achieve nature, recovery and development. For this purpose, the Environmental Act also contains instruments, such as programmes. For the time being, we are focusing on the international conventions based on the no further deterioration of biodiversity, but that is already a considerable task, I regret to say. In the nature pact, we also made clear agreements with the provinces about the achievement of these tasks. Why should the provinces listen to me? Mr Ollongren has also mentioned this. I just said it in the beginning. It is not the case that we are now in a hierarchical relationship with the provinces. We do work very well together. I myself think that cooperation is getting better and better. Of course, provinces aren't on their own either. They're being checked, too. If they make agreements with us and also make agreements with their own States, they will ultimately have to answer for them. But we are very good at talking about this kind of thing. If things get really, really, really out of hand, then I am looking at Mr Ollongren in particular, in the extreme, I have the instrument of inter-administrative supervision, but I do not want to bring that up here. We are really doing this on the basis of mutual understanding and mutual understanding. Mr Van Gerven argues that there would be no role for the pleasure hunt in a modern nature policy. As Mr Van Gerven knows, there are currently five species on the wild list that may be hunted: hare, rabbit, pheasant, wood pigeon and wild duck. For years, the Netherlands has limited this right to the five species mentioned, which are also known to be used as a barrier to the favourable conservation status of these species, because that is, of course, crucial. The hunter is obliged to prevent or limit damage that these species may cause, but the pleasure hunt we have thus described quite strictly in the Nature Protection Act. This law doesn't change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u237	What does fun hunting have to do with having respect for the animal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u238	This is a discussion that keeps coming back, so to speak. Policy neutral is policy neutral. In this sense, this law does not change anything that has been codified in this respect. It is important that these species have a good conservation status in order to remain on them, but it can also fit in with the management of an area. We have established here that these five species are huntable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u239	I know that's what the law says. I've also made a distinction between management yacht and pleasure yacht. In society, there is really no basis for that. A large majority of society sees nothing in this pleasure hunt and opposes it. Isn't this something of past times? Has the ethical standard no longer evolved towards the principle that we have to show respect for animals, so there is no place for pleasure hunting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u240	In any case, society's opinion was not reflected in the recent vote in the Upper House. That is where this motion from the Party for Animals has indeed taken place. If that was "the opinion of society," the vote in the First Chamber was not a reflection of that. I have seen that Mr Van Gerven himself has also tabled an amendment on this point, although I see that not on the pleasure hunt but on the pressure and drift hunt. It will be clear whether there is support for this amendment in this Chamber as a reflection of society. My guess is that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr. Chairman. Mr Madlener also made a whole speech. I am really pleased to hear that Mr Madlener is so concerned about nature. He has even tabled an amendment to it, which I am going to deal with in this way. On the subject of light, Mr Ollongren has already replied. Mr Bishop asked if I wanted to expand the wild list, Mr Van Gerven, there we have it; the SGP is already going the other way with the hunt for sustainable meat. In the context of damage control, a number of species can be hunted, including geese. These animals also produce meat in practice, and I note that this meat is also intended for private use. Sometimes it also comes on the table in restaurants. Damage control takes place at a higher level than that of individual hunting grounds of landowners. I do not therefore have any reason at this time to consider the edible nature of wild meat which is there; we do not deny that as a criterion to extend the wild list. Do I want to broaden the scope of the evaluation survey in terms of questioning and include hunters, individuals and landowners? That is what Mr Bishop is asking. My intention is to examine, together with the provinces, the new system of fauna management through a survey. I already announced that. In addition, the fauna management units are asked about their experiences. Landowners, hunters and civil society organisations are present on the boards of these fauna management units. They are therefore already included in the survey by this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u243	To avoid misunderstandings, this means that the Minister will also ensure that the hunters, landowners and so on are actually represented through that channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u244	They're in those fauna control units, too. So if I ask the fauna management units something, I assume that they themselves are able to involve these people. A code of conduct rather than an exemption for species protection; can I clarify this? That is what Mr Bishop is asking. In the current system of the Nature Protection Act, an exemption from the species protection provision applies to activities in accordance with a code of conduct approved by the Minister of LNV. Then there is no need to apply for an exemption. Such an exemption will also be reflected in the nature supplement decision, which will therefore still be in the Chamber. For activities which comply with this requirement, an environmental permit for a flora and fauna activity need not be applied for. Existing codes of conduct are brought under the new exemption through transitional law. Unlike today, codes of conduct are no longer adopted by means of a separate decision. They are designated by ministerial regulation. Mr Bishop asks what I am going to do with the study of habitat types and prohibitions, also in view of the Court's ruling, and what concrete steps I am taking to bring it more into line, for example with Germany. We also had this discussion last week during the debate on the PAS. I think that at that time I tried quite thoroughly to explain to Mr Weverling exactly what is happening. I'm gonna take another shot. Various studies, including the fitness check, show that the Netherlands has implemented the Birds and Habitats Directive well. I intend to carry out a comparative legal study into the implementation of a number of European environmental directives, as we have included in the government agreement. I will also include the study of habitat types and prohibitions. I'll see how Germany handles that. I believe that last week I tried to point out that the general view that we are all so much stricter than is requested from Europe is not entirely our experience. Every time we came to Europe with that, it was rather decisively rejected. But we will look at a number of issues further. Then I come last but not least to Mr Weverling. He began to support the approach of the oak procession caterpillar. He had a bit of the impression that many municipalities themselves are trying to give some direction to that and asked if we could support that a little more broadly. I myself have noticed in the very near vicinity that the oak procession caterpillar leads to some irritation, literally and figuratively. I see that the nuisance can take on significant forms. This applies not only to humans but also to animals and pets. In a large part of the Netherlands there is an explosion. The nuisance has increased and that is really very annoying. We will see how we can support municipalities in this. I think a few things are important then. Firstly, it is important for us to be able to provide information in one central place. Information on the oak procession caterpillar and its control is now available in several places. We will see how we can put it together in one place, so that it is clear where that information can be found. We can give some sort of directive on how to combat the oak procession caterpillar, so that it can be clarified. Secondly, we can contact the VNG. I am now looking at my colleague Ollongren. I think that we can do this together, or perhaps it will if we have done it properly. VNG can also pass on to its own members where to find the information and what business you could do. That way, you could handle it. I'm trying to do that very quickly. I'll see if we can work that out by the end of the week. Maybe it'll be just after the weekend, but it'll be around that course. If there are any further questions coming forward, then we can always act on things to see how we can offer more help in doing so. For the longer term I can also see what knowledge is available about what is behind it and how to deal with it. I'll also see if I can give the WUR a little more insight into that. In this way, we gain more insight into, for example, spreading trends and future patterns. Hopefully, we will be able to act more effectively in the following cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u245	Did you answer the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u246	No, because Mr Weverling had another question about the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u247	Answer them and I will then give the floor to Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u248	That's the last question about the game list. I have just told Mr Bisschop how we intend to design the wild list survey. Mr Weverling also asks if I would like to extend the evaluation of population management by not only involving more parties but also by including the extension of the wild list as a survey question. Let me just call it that. The purpose of the survey is to ask all those involved in the management of fauna for their experience in the management of fauna, as it has been since the entry into force of the Nature Protection Act. These are the parties represented in the fauna management units. I would also like to see how we can do this together with the provinces and take their experiences into account. The extension of the wild list can, of course, go both ways, I would just like to say to Mr Weverling. It may also be that the conclusion is that the game list should be restricted. That could also come from the survey. I do not know whether Mr Weverling wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u249	We're not gonna provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u250	But I'll give him a moment to consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u251	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u252	Two questions. The fauna management units are not representatives of the TBOs, the land-based organisations. I don't think there's anyone in there who's not bothered. I don't think there's anyone in there. You just said in reply to Mr Bishop that the hunters are involved, but there is therefore no burden and no backs-up for a board of such an FBE. So they're not directly involved as a hunting group. Would you mind taking that up for a second? The guidance for the oak procession caterpillar should be reviewed. You have given a nice answer to the questions about the explosion of the oak procession caterpillar, thank you for that, but we actually think that the current guidance is far too old and should be kept in the light.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u253	Minister, these two questions remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u254	I can't tell by heart what exactly is in the guide. That's just too much to ask, because I haven't looked at it yet. We have said that we are going to see what information we have now and what steps we can take to combat them. I can imagine that this kind of thing is also described in that guidance. If we indicate that, we will also immediately check whether it is up-to-date information. The fauna management units. I have talked about the parties represented in the fauna management units. These are organisations of landowners, hunters and civil society organisations. So it's not so much about the boards as it is about who is represented in the FBEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u255	Thank you. That's what brought you to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u256	Should I do the amendments immediately, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u257	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u258	I hope I have the right numbers. If not, then you should... I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 13. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u259	I've got them in front of me. That is the Bromet amendment on adding definitions of plants and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u260	These definitions are given a place in the Natural Environment Act. So Mrs. Bromet wants them in the law, too. It was our preference to do so in the decision, because there are really the protection regimes for animals and plants. Then the concepts and the rules are put together and that is so clear. In itself, there is no fundamental objection to inclusion in the law and I can therefore give this amendment a Chamber's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u262	The same goes for the amendment on item No. 14, because that actually has the same reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u263	Fine. Then we'll go to part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u264	That can also be done by judging Chamber. Number 17. I have already indicated that the ban on hunting in the period when there is a risk that animals may be nesting or suckling is a result of European legislation. So that is already the case, and that makes the amendment superfluous and I do not recommend it. Number 18 is in line with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's previous amendment. This also applies to the fact that the instruments of the Environment Act already provide for adequate safeguards. That makes the amendment superfluous and I therefore advise against it. The amendment in part No. 19 wrongly restricts the appropriate assessment to habitat types and species that have led to the selection of Natura 2000 sites. This would lead to conflict with the Habitats Directive and the Directive requires that the authorisation of projects with significant impact on a Natura 2000 site should take into account all Natura 2000 habitat types and species that are more than significant and for which a designation decision therefore includes targets. The European Commission is also clear about this. This discussion has been going on, I believe, ever since Mr. Van der Vlies was a Member of Parliament here. I know the views of the SGP on this, but we have actually checked this with the European Commission before, also because of questions from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u265	Is that an amendment that has been dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u266	The information letters from the Commission service to the Netherlands from 2015 and recently the directive on the Habitats Directive, Article 6 of 2018, really does not say a word of Spanish about that. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr President, this is indeed a long discussion. We are not giving up on that very quickly either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u268	But we're going to make it short now, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u269	We're going to make it very short. The point is that certain small snippets, which do have a certain habitat but where this has not been the reason to designate them as Natura 2000 sites, cannot be an additional burden. We therefore consider it desirable to develop a more precise definition of natural characteristics on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u270	This has nothing to do with desirable or undesirable on our part. This really has to do with the fact that the European Commission has been quite clear about this to us, recently, last year. If this amendment is accepted, then we will be in a position to deal with Europe in the same way. That is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u271	Thank you. Then we go to 20, a ban on drift and pressure hunting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u272	Yes. It is special, because just last year I authorised the hunting of wild boar, including at the request of provinces, including a deputy of the SP in Brabant, Mr Van Gerven's own province, who asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u273	And with that, the amendment has been dissuaded? I'm going to hunt a bit, because I notice that it's very extensive, while I think the Minister is already giving the explanation. We still have a very second term, and after that, we're gonna have another legal procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u274	However, I would point out that this method is sometimes necessary from the point of view of effective wildlife management. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The amendment in part No. 21 questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u275	A categorical ban on hunting in nature reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u276	Okay. I think I've already indicated why hunting is necessary. A categorical ban is not one of them. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. The amendment in part No. 22...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u277	A ban on the construction of wind turbines and solar parks in nature reserves, the Madlener/Kops amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u278	Yes. It is not so easy to do so in the Natura 2000 sites. There really are strict rules for that. But there may be a reason to do so. If it appears that the installation or use of wind turbines or solar parks has a negative impact on the natural values of a Natura 2000 site, the province shall not grant an environmental authorisation. The beauty of the landscape is also mentioned as an interest. The value of landscapes is already protected through the regular instruments. But with a complete ban, there could be other issues. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u279	I don't understand any of that. The landscape beauty, which we all enjoy in nature reserves, would not be affected by wind turbines according to the Minister. Of course you can't. There should be no wind turbine in a nature reserve, as simple as that. So it's always affected. That is why my amendment should not be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u280	Landscape beauty and the value of landscapes are already protected through the regular instruments, namely in the environmental plan. That is not why we need this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u281	Thank you. You're not gonna agree. Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u282	So, effectively, wind turbines will no longer be built in nature reserves, as my amendment describes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u283	No, I'm saying there are different safeguards already in different places. This must be taken into account by the provinces, or those issuing permits. But there can also be other issues involved in this consideration. This amendment is therefore not necessary to make it very strict; it already contains that rigour. But sometimes there may also be reasons to deviate from that. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 23 by Mr De Groot...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u284	And Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u285	And Mrs. Dik-Faber. Achieving a favourable conservation status is a result obligation of the Habitats Directive. That is what we are talking about. The Habitats Directive does not set a deadline for achieving a favourable conservation status. Nature is not forced in this sense, and the pace is also determined by what is feasible and affordable. The Nature Protection Act, as well as the present bill, states that the provinces together take the necessary measures to achieve the favourable conservation status. With the provinces, the cabinet wants to reach a higher target range. For example, we already do this in the Nature Pact, in the Intergovernmental Programme Vitaal Countryside, in Region Deals and in the Approach meadow birds. In his term, Mr De Groot set out exactly how he meant this amendment, with the standard and with the hook that he put in it, and then worked it out in the decision. I have to say, however, that we should at least take a close look at this. It wasn't just realized and done. It needs to be looked at carefully. But as it has now been formulated, including in the explanatory statement to the amendment, I believe that we have a destination in which to read it. With that I can give this amendment judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u286	Thanks to the Minister. I have one more question. The Minister is given a little time in this amendment to define that favourable conservation status. Does the Minister have a year in mind, for example 2021, in which she did so and this amendment can enter into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u287	The amendment itself refers to a "separate time" so that "the favourable state of conservation can be worked out first." I think we really need to be careful first. So I think it's a little risky to hang on to that now for a year. We're gonna work on it, but we're gonna have to do a good, scientific basis on how we do it. But it's definitely not gonna be this year, I'd like to give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u288	Short, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u289	I can understand that. You say "not this year." Is that 2021, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u290	We're really working on it. You can hold me to that. But if I mention a year now, and we're not going to get there, that's complicated. But we're actively working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u291	Do you have a question about an amendment, Mr. Weverling? Yours? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u292	Certainly, on this amendment. The cabinet is judging Chamber. So we're going to take an advance. I think that's poorly worked out for something else, and I'm going to be referring to the PAS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And in two or three years, we're gonna implement something we're gonna adopt tonight, at least, which you're gonna "judge Chamber" on. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u293	What this amendment is doing is that it sets out in the law what the favourable conservation status has to comply with. Only its effects have not yet been fully realised. Mr De Groot and Mrs Dik-Faber asked for further work to be done. But that's what you do in the decision. Well, that's gonna come back. So then you can all see with each other what the effect of the implementation of that standard is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u294	Thank you. I'm gonna... Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u295	Before this amendment is put to the vote, is the Minister prepared to discuss with the provinces whether they consider it desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u296	The law is ours, it's not from the provinces. So we decide here. The standard that Mr De Groot now mentions was already mentioned in the Nature Protection Act. So there's nothing new in that sense. What is now being worked out is about how to fill it out and concrete it out. Of course, we do that with the provinces themselves. The provinces have a role in that, as do your Chamber. I'm sure we're going to have a lot of debates on that. So that's what they're getting involved in. But the fact that this standard on the favourable state of conservation and what is covered by it, now in the law, is not new, that was already stated in the Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u297	Thank you. Well, there will be. Finally, I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to deal with the amendment to item No. Mr Bishop. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Bishop on his report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u298	That amendment calls for a ban on disrupting the management of fauna. There is a balance between different issues: freedom of expression, right of demonstration, the rights and interests of the hunter, population management, the fight against harm, the public interest. There must always be a balance between all these interests. It will vary on a case-by-case basis. General criminal law, administrative law and civil law offer sufficient opportunities to deal with any disorder and imminent damage; it is very well formulated. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u299	Dissuade. Thank you. This brings you to the end of the first term of office. I assume there's a need for a second term. We're gonna find out which flora and fauna are gonna show up tonight in the various motions. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u300	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. I have three further motions and one more question on a motion of 1 November 2018. That motion was tabled by Mr Geurts, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr De Groot. It is a very nice motion which advocates the importance of green cities. The motion calls on the government, in cooperation with municipalities, provinces and nature organisations, to come forward with proposals for nature-inclusive cities for biodiversity. I'm very curious to know what's going on with that motion. Then there are the three motions I was talking about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is a small and densely populated country;]] [[Whereas nature, as well as human beings, may be affected by the increase in artificial light;]] [[Whereas municipalities are given scope for consideration in order to implement the prevention of light nuisances;]] [[invites the government to come together with municipalities and provinces with a guidance on light nuisance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that municipal green services face shared challenges such as pest control, such as the huge increase in processioners and Japanese thousand knots, and the promotion of biodiversity in the public green;]] [[Whereas the approach of municipalities can be improved by developing and sharing knowledge;]] [[invites the government to discuss with the municipalities and provinces a joint knowledge and learning programme for the challenges of green management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the damage to fauna paid is increasing and the actual damage is much higher;]] [[Whereas fauna management is becoming more complex and a simpler system to prevent damage to fauna is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine jointly with the provinces the possibilities of simplifying the management of fauna, the prevention of fauna damage and the application and allocation of fauna damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-25]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels, Mr Weverling, Mr De Groot and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-26]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels, Mr Weverling and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On one point of satisfaction: the commitments made by the Minister to Mr von Martels on combating the oak processionrups. I would like to suggest to the Minister that she should also take a special look abroad, because this will probably be a cross-border problem. I think we should also see how they deal with this issue abroad. That is my request to the Minister. Further, a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legislation in force so far has not been able to prevent the continuing loss of biodiversity and should therefore pay particular attention to the restoration of nature and biodiversity in the development and implementation of the Environmental Law system;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the general administrative measure to be developed the provision that the explanatory memorandum on environmental plans provides a testable and insightful justification for the extent to which degradation of natural values is prevented or compensated, so as to ensure, on balance, conservation or improvement of natural values;]] [[calls on the Government to consider with public authorities the possibility of developing a monitoring ladder for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u302	Mr President, to clarify the motion, the motion is really super light. It concerns the inclusion of an explanation in the zoning plan and consultation with co-governments. Where I have had no tendency to change anything about the law, because I accept policy neutrality as a starting point, I would appreciate it very much if this were looked at with goodwill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u303	As a third speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals. Mr Moorlag spoke on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Many thanks for the answer given by the ministers, although I regret to note that we have not really come together in terms of nature, biodiversity and hunting. Mr. Chairman. I have only tabled two amendments. The ministers have already responded to this. I'm gonna file 15 motions. Fifteen, yeah. We understand from the Bureau of Legislation that there is still a great deal to be said in the AMvB, which means that it has to be put into motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u305	Well, go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u306	I'm gonna do it fast, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the IPbes report demonstrates an unprecedented loss of biodiversity at a staggering pace;]] [[Whereas the Nature Protection Act already meant a deterioration in the protection of vulnerable nature in the Netherlands compared to previous laws;]] [[Whereas the protection of nature in the Natural Environment Act is further undermined by the wider consideration space for local authorities;]] [[calls on the government to repeal the bill of addition to the Nature Environment Act and to make a natural law that is committed to active conservation and biodiversity restoration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the intrinsic value of the animal was recognised in the Flora and Fauna Act and as a guiding principle is laid down in the Animal Law, but is not included in the current Nature Protection Act nor in the Bill of Supplements Nature Environment Act;]] [[calls on the government to include the intrinsic value of wildlife in the Natural Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas five species of hare, rabbit, wild duck, pheasant and wood pigeon are hunted without purpose or necessity;]] [[Whereas the legal recognition of the intrinsic value of animals is at odds with the indiscriminate killing of such animals;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the wild list of free-hunting animals to zero species and to allow discards only in cases of danger to public health, significant damage or identifiable problem situations within the population or for flora and/or fauna that cannot be solved in a less serious way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the national exemption list is a coarse instrument because no species is "always and everywhere' harmful;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the national exemption list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fox is a protected species in the Nature Conservation Act;]] [[noting that the fox is on the national exemption list, which means that during the whole year, including during carrying and sucking time, discharge may take place anywhere in the Netherlands without needing to be demonstrated that there is damage or nuisance in an area;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the fox from the exemption list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rabbit has been identified as a species of wildly hunted species and is on the national exemption list, which means that shots may take place throughout the year throughout the Netherlands;]] [[noting that in large parts of the country the rabbit is still not doing well, including due to deadly rabbit diseases;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the rabbit from the exemption list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State considers that the Benelux Agreement and a decision based on it provide that artificial light may never be used in fox hunting, since artificial light is not a "mean" permitted in the Benelux for hunting;]] [[noting that the Netherlands applies the Benelux agreement on hunting only to the capture and killing of hares, rabbits, wild ducks, wood pigeons and pheasants for hunting purposes, but not yet to the capture and killing of wild animals for the purposes of "population management" or "harm control";]] [[calls on the Government to apply Benelux rules to the capture and killing of wild animals for the purposes of population management or damage control;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of artificial light in fox hunting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-29]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-30]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-31]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-32]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-33]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u307	I actually have a question about the previous motion, because we have had the rabbit and the fox, but there are more animals on it. I thought you'd be taking all those animals off that list by motion. That made sense to me. Why protect the rabbit or take it off that list, but not the wood pigeon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u308	If you have been careful, you know that I have also tabled a motion to abolish the entire exemption list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u309	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u310	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u311	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hunting has a serious disruptive effect on all animal species in the area;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow hunting in Natura 2000 sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u312	My time has stopped, I see. Maybe... yeah. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hunting time is regular;]] [[Whereas a competition element increases the risk of a selective discharge;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit hunting matches,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a zero level of wild boar is not real and not sustainable;]] [[calls on the government to instruct the provinces to release the zero-stock areas for wild boar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u313	It's about the list. The Animal Party wants it to be brought all the way back to zero, but what if road safety is at stake? What should happen in Mrs Van Kooten's eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u314	Road safety is often at stake because there is intensive hunting of all kinds of big game. They end up on provincial roads and sometimes even on highways. We say: no hunting also ensures that the animals stay in their territory and do not flee. If there is a risk to road safety, good results can already be achieved for humans and animals by means of wild signaling systems and by reducing the speed limit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that provinces extend the possibility for the use of cages in wild boar hunting;]] [[Whereas it is very cruel to catch animals in cages and then shoot them in the cage;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of cages for hunting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for the first time in 200 years wolves have been born in the wild in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that wolves feed mainly on wild animals such as deer, boars and deer and thus occupy an important place as top predator in the nature reserve;]] [[noting that hunters are nevertheless authorised to launch wild boar piglets on a large scale in the wolf's habitat;]] [[calls on the government to immediately impose a hunting ban during the sucking period of the wolf in a radius of 100 kilometres around the habitat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas bald hood, i.e. the machining of a large piece of forest to create a clearing, is still used by forest managers despite major social unrest;]] [[Whereas it takes decades for the replacement young forest to absorb as much CO as the cut-off forest and, in addition, it is less attractive to flora and fauna, especially insect and bird species;]] [[Whereas bald cover causes a loss of soil fertility, biodiversity and CO uptake;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit balding as a rejuvenation and wood harvest measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-39]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-40]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u315	I've got two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u316	Oh. Then you have more than fourteen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u317	I'm almost there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that production and multifunctional forest are included as a protected nature reserve while these forests have secondary functions as an intensive wood harvest that are directly at the expense of climate and biodiversity objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to stop counting production and multifunctional forest as a protected nature reserve;]] [[calls on the Government to designate all forests in protected natural areas as natural forests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u318	And the final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 60 nature organisations and forest-based organisations want a clearer forest policy for the Empire;]] [[noting that the Minister is working on a forest strategy to improve the coherence between forest, nature and climate policies;]] [[calls on the Government to make the exclusive competence of the Empire the establishment of rules for the protection of the forest and the felling of trees outside the built-up area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u319	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u320	Thank you. We shall then turn to Mr De Groot's next question, which has no motion. At least, he may have signed with others, but he doesn't carry a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u321	Mr President, I shall be brief. A further debate is scheduled for next. I would like to thank both ministers very much for their comprehensive response and for the assessment of the D66 amendment and the Christian Union amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u322	Thank you. Then I'll go on to Mrs. Bromet. You don't have a motion yourself, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u323	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the positive opinion on my amendments. For support for the bill we will have to consider, because GroenLinks has been very critical of the Environment Act itself from the beginning. We're gonna discuss it in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u324	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u325	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. The SP remains unabatedly critical of this entire environmental law operation, so to speak. I shall now turn to the Netherlands Nature Network and the role of the provinces. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, compared to the rules currently in force for the exploitation of areas within the Netherlands Nature Network, the Quality Regulation Decision creates more administrative balancing space for provinces;]] [[Whereas the difference in financial capacity between provinces may give rise to a difference in the importance that provinces attach to the objectives of the nature network;]] [[considers that the re-voting of nature should not have any financial consideration;]] [[calls on the Government to set up the instruction rules for the provincial NNN test in the Quality of Living Environment Decision in such a way that they correspond to the rules in the current Decision on general land use planning rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u326	Mr. Chairman. I am afraid that the Minister's rejection of my amendment to ban windmills and solar parks in natural areas has made me and the Chamber wrong. The minister says, "It almost never happens. It's very well protected." It turns out that's not true. I just got an email from a good nature organisation in the Netherlands saying that the minister didn't tell the truth, "because the two largest wind farms are located in Natura 2000 areas: Windpark Friesland and the Krammersluiten." I also received the tip that State Forestry is currently actively integrating wind and solar parks into nature reserves, including within Natura 2000. That's a very different story than the Minister just pinned us on the sleeve. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u327	Thank you. Mr. Bishop? You're gonna get rid of it. Mr Weverling as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain animal species cause considerable damage to nature and agricultural land and pose a danger to road safety;]] [[Whereas the legal objective of the National Exemption List and the National Wildlife List is inter alia to prevent and reduce damage;]] [[noting that the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality has indicated that a survey will be organised this year among provinces and fauna management units on the experience with the system of hunting, damage control and population management;]] [[Whereas direct stakeholders such as ground-based organisations, private landowners, farmers, game management units and hunters are not involved in this survey;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine, within the framework of the survey, what measures could contribute to better prevention and reduction of damage to nature, traffic and agricultural plants caused by wildlife;]] [[calls on the Government to involve stakeholders directly in this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Bishop and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u329	I have another question about the amendment tabled by Mr De Groot and Mrs Dik-Faber. My question is genuinely what that amendment adds, because we already have a Nature Protection Act and a lot of other laws. Other amendments have already been rejected this evening. What does this add to the law? Of all these 350 habitat types, the objective environmental value should be investigated. And that has to be established. So the question is to the Minister of LNV: isn't that impossible and arises by investigating and establishing that not just a freak? And a question to the Secretary of State. The system change is: there are one law and four AMvBs. Then how are we gonna do this? Are we going to wait for one of those four AMvBs to introduce this amendment or will we have a fifth AMvB? What about the change in the system in relation to this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u330	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I would like to make a proposal to my fellow Members. We are going to hear either the appreciation of the motions orally or I ask the cabinet to provide a written appreciation for the motions. It's up to you. Is the wish to do it orally? The wish is to do it orally. In doing so, you have also indicated to your colleagues that they still need to be patient. I'm fine with it. This is an important law and we deal with laws. Are you in writing? Everyone is okay with doing it in writing. I see the cabinet is a little displeased. I am truly sorry, but I am going to do so unless there is an objection from the Chamber to doing so in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u331	I have no objection, Mr. Chairman. The question is only when this written answer can come to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u332	I'm looking at the cabinet. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u333	I'd just like it verbally, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u334	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The cabinet strongly indicates that it wishes to do so. Fine, I'm fine with it. I just wanted to make an order proposal. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes to give the cabinet the opportunity to provide you with a decent appreciation, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u335	I would like to give the floor to the cabinet to give an appreciation to the 21 motions and to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u336	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 25 does colleague Ollongren. As regards the motion in part No. 26 I have indicated that the provinces have a task in it, so I advise against this motion. What the motion in part No. 27 requests, I am prepared to do so. So judge Room. The motion in part No. 28 does colleague Ollongren. The motion in part No. Twenty-nine, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 30, I advise. The motion in part No. 31, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Thirty-two, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Thirty-three, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 34 I don't recommend. The motion in part No. Thirty-five, I'm telling you. The motion in part No. Thirty-six, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Thirty-seven, I'm not sure. That's not gonna happen, by the way. The motion in part No. 38 I don't recommend. The motion in part No. 39 on the discharge of wild boar: that is not hunting, but population management. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 40 is the county's trade-off. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 41 I advise against. I have indicated that bald hood hardly occurs. I'm not going to ban it at all. The motion in part No. Forty-two, I advise. The motion in part No. 43: that's in the provinces. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. I also advise 44 of Mr Van Gerven. On the motion in part No. Forty-five I said I wanted to look into that in that survey. So I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u337	Would the Minister please explain to us why they have tabled the motion in part No. - Forty-four? - Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u338	The protection's just as good. That is what I think we discussed in the debate. The result must be consistency, quality and size must not be affected. There is also some room for how the provinces are going to realize this. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u339	Thank you. We are not going to repeat the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u340	No, but I don't understand, Mr. Chairman. With this motion I want to ensure that what is the result of the Nature Protection Act is fully implemented and what has been agreed in it. I just want to see that clearly confirmed. I don't see the difference between what I'm trying to do and what the Minister's saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u341	It suggests that the protection is not as good, otherwise you wouldn't be filing this motion. I've been here all night saying that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u342	Thank you. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u343	I understand it's late. I've filed 15 motions. I understand that that also requires a lot from the Minister at this hour. However, I would like to ask her whether there can be an explanation for each motion, which I shall be able to do in writing, because this is all very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u344	I can put them under one heading, and that is that these motions all require changes to the law and the system and to what we have regulated in the Nature Protection Act and its transposition. We have always argued that this is being implemented neutrally. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks for a policy change on all points. That's not at the heart of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u346	Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions. Mr Von Martels asked about the motion on nature in the cities. We have joined the climate adaptation strategy and the sustainable urbanisation agenda of Mr Ollongren. These routes are still under development and therefore it has taken some time. After recess, I'll inform you how to proceed with the motion. Then there is a response to Mr Madlener: it remains with what I have indicated. There are strict framework conditions for the development of wind farms and solar fields in Natura 2000 sites. I can't rule out it happening. That is also in line with my answer. But there are really special reasons for that. It is not that this is the case automatically. Mr Weverling's question: what does Mr De Groot's amendment add? In fact, that is what Mr Weverling himself just said. It implements the standards already included in the Nature Protection Act and indicates environmental values. That adds it. Those environmental values are then included in lower regulation. On another part, colleague Ollongren goes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u347	Then I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two more motions. The motion in part No. 25 by Mr von Martels and Mr De Groot, on the problem of light and guidance. I would like to point out that there are already hand-outs and that IPO is already offering guidance. I am prepared to consider whether there is a need for clarification. If that is the case, I would like to take up that point. With that remark, I can leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 28 by Mr Moorlag. I appreciate his attempt and would like to see whether we are perhaps a little more in agreement than Mr Moorlag thinks by returning to the question behind the motion. I would like to give an explanation to the Ladder for sustainable urbanization and to what he is asking here. There's a big difference. For nature, there is a very strict framework for standards. There's a trade-off framework. This comes from European law and it is taken over one-on-one in the Supplementary Nature Act. When it comes to building houses, to further designing spatial planning and to the agreements we have on this, there is much more space. There is much more decentralised space, because it is often decentralised policy. Sturding through such a balancing framework or, for example, the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation then has added value. My point is that this does not apply to nature. I understand the comparison made by Mr Moorlag, but because of the strict standards it does not really apply. That is why the motion is superfluous and an additional burden for the other governments. I would like to explain this in detail, because I have heard very well what Mr Moorlag said. But I hope that we may agree and that he will no longer find the motion necessary. As the motion now stands, I must dissuade her, in particular because of the extra burden, but also because of the superfluousness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u349	I don't think the motion is superfluous. In my first term, I mentioned four points which could be used in the assessment. So you're not just looking at whether you're up to the standards, but you're also looking at the possibilities of nature recovery, for example. It does not go beyond an explanation in the zoning plan. Nor is it a question of pushing the standards out of the law. It is an explicability in the explanatory notes on the zoning plan. How, of course, have nature interests been balanced in this respect, in accordance with legal standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u350	I would like to thank Mr Moorlag for his explanatory statement. I've given mine. I would like to remind you once again of the strict framework of standards and the lack of further burden on the other authorities. I'm sticking to the verdict. Finally, Mr Weverling's question. Mrs Schouten has already answered this question to a large extent. As Mrs Schouten said, it is legal. The environmental value is now being recorded. Then we have to work on the quantification. Only when it is completed will it be incorporated into the legislation. But it has to be after, so that will be after the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u351	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the treatment of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-7.u352	We'll vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments for a change of cabinet.
