ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Mass Damage Resolution Act in collective action, Section 34608. I welcome the Secretary of State for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	We will start immediately with the first term of the Chamber, with Mr Van Gent of the VVD as the first speaker. He has seven minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, his officials and all those who contributed to the drafting of this law. Today the House of Representatives discusses the Mass Damage Resolution Act in collective action. This law is the result of a Dijksma motion, which was already adopted by the Chamber on 8 November 2011. This illustrates once again that legislation is a long process, with care and prudence of great importance. In this process, the Lower House must also take its role as co-legislator to heart. It is, as they themselves say, a long-cherished wish of consumer organisations that a law be introduced that makes it easier for the injured to collectively claim damages. This need is understandable and the VVD also considers it very important for consumers to be able to exercise their rights together if businesses or governments fail to fulfil their obligations. But we must also learn from the experiences of mass damage claims elsewhere in the world. In America, for example, it is a common practice that external financiers call on people to engage in a mass cause and demand high sums of money. They don't do that out of compassion for the doomed, but just to make a deal out of it. After all, if the lawsuit is won, the victims must give part of their damages to the financier. The VVD believes that we should use this bill to counter such a claim culture. That is why, together with the SGP and in part with the CDA, I have tabled five amendments, including to keep foreign investors out of the door. The first amendment submitted by the VVD together with the SGP and the CDA is intended to strengthen the condition that the mass claims must have a close link with the Dutch legal sphere. Of course, claims must be settled in the Netherlands if they concern a Dutch company or if the victims are resident in our country. However, we want to prevent claim tourism. If the damage was caused outside the Netherlands without the Dutch being hurt, then the fact that a company only has a small Dutch daughter is not sufficient ground to recover the claim in our country. The applicant must therefore demonstrate that there is a close link with the Dutch legal sphere in order to make his claim admissible in the Netherlands. In this way, we prevent foreign disputes from being fought in our legal system. We also believe that the legislative proposal before us today should not have retroactive effect. Therefore, the second amendment states that the VVD has submitted together with the SGP and the CDA that only damage caused by events that after 15 November 2016, the day on which the law was sent to the Chamber, can qualify for a mass damage claim under this new law. This not only creates legal certainty, but also prevents multiple procedures from getting mixed up. The bill lays down conditions that a legal person must meet in order to be admissible with a mass damage claim. However, exceptions are made for progress with an ideal purpose. We believe it is right that ideal claims should meet fewer requirements, but we do not want this to open the door to profit-making and/or claims without a close link with the Dutch legal sphere. We want to combat claim inflation. The third amendment submitted by the VVD together with the SGP and the CDA therefore aims to ensure that an ideal claim cannot be profit-making and must also fulfil the condition of close relationship with the Dutch legal sphere. The fourth amendment tabled by the VVD together with the SGP and the CDA also aims to ensure that ideal claims should not result in damages expressed in money. That is not the primary purpose of these lawsuits. The claim must be aimed at countering the social failure or achieving the ideal objective. Finally, the VVD and the SGP want a fifth amendment to enable the judge, if he so wishes, to determine exactly how many of the victims are. The Australians have a procedure for this, namely the so-called optional opt-in. They have had good experience of this. That is why we want to introduce this system in the Netherlands. We expect a party that caused the damage to be more willing to settle if it is clear what the financial consequences will be. Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants mass damage procedures in the country to be more efficient and effective, without creating a claim culture. With these amendments, we want to make a constructive contribution to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. Then we will continue with Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	We need to make it easier for people who suffer massively the same damage, for example consumers, to achieve their rights. This has been under consideration for quite some time now. It is not useful if everyone individually has to sue against the same opposite party. That would be an excessive and unnecessary burden on justice. But perhaps more importantly, people themselves are not really waiting for the red tape, the hassle and the uncertainty. The core is: we have to make it easy for people to get their rights. We have a lot more to do about that. This morning, we had a rather wide-ranging general discussion on this subject. We're not gonna do that again. However, in that light, we must take a positive view of this bill, namely access to justice. It is indeed the result of the Dijksma motion, co-signed by the SP, from 2011. Now, eight years later, we're discussing this bill. We already have a procedure, but there are two main problems. At present, a consumer interest organisation may ask the court to declare that the telephone company, the company or the factory has acted unlawfully, but no compensation can yet be claimed. The judgment of the court shall not be binding on the parties. That is only the case if the harmdoer agrees to a collective settlement. If not, consumers and businesses will still have to sue individually in order to be compensated for their damage. Consumers can therefore be confronted with unwilling harmdoers and lack a stick behind the door to force them to cooperate. The second problem, in our view, is that at present different collective procedures can be carried out side by side over the same event and for about the same victims. That's unclear for everyone. So the SP thinks what's ahead is a good bill. It has taken years of consultation with various stakeholders and expert lawyers on how this could best be organised. I understand that both the business community and the Consumers' Association are in agreement with this proposal, the current proposal. That is quite special and above all a very good sign. It provides greater legal certainty for entrepreneurs and consumers. Consumers get more clarity about where they can go with their claim. This bill will ease the pressure on the judiciary. It also provides more certainty that there will be no frivolous claims, and thus avoids dealing with interests representing purely commercial interests: foundations that have been set up to rake as many claims as possible instead of defending interests. On that last problem, the SP also pointed out in Parliamentary questions, even some time ago, on which the Minister also acknowledged that the disabled do not always have sufficient insight into the way in which the organisation with which they join. Some mass damage claims organisations do not take sufficient measures to prevent the misuse of money or conflict of interest. Of course, that's bad for trust. If, on the contrary, we want it to be easier for people to get their rights, then it is a bad thing for their representatives of interests to do everything with money except to defend their interests in a good way. So we have to prevent that from happening. This is improved by the legislative proposal, and so there are more good points. I do have a few more questions for the Minister. In 2010, a code of conduct for claims foundations was established. At the time, much was expected of this, but is it true that it is inadequate in practice? Can the Minister answer that? Or let me put it another way: can the Minister outline the necessity or, in fact, the handle of this law, precisely in terms of the rules governing the claims foundation? Is it true that this bill gives the Netherlands a unique system for filing mass claims, or are there similar experiences abroad? Would it not be wise to continue to discuss the drafting of this bill with, among other things, the case-law and business and consumer organisations, so that any bottlenecks can be identified and resolved? I don't want to suggest that we start monitoring and evaluating everything, but I think it's good to keep an eye on whether it works as we hope and expect. Mr. Chairman. Several amendments have been tabled. I am not going to walk them all by, because Mr Van Gent has just explained them. I don't think they're all positive. In particular, I do not think that one of these is a good proposal, namely the amendment of transitional legislation. As far as SP is concerned, it is important that the new law also applies to cases of mass damage that have already occurred before 15 November 2016, so that the law can actually be used. That is what the Minister has proposed; that is not for nothing, I suppose. I hope that the Minister will be able to say a little more about his reasons for submitting the proposal as it has been done on this point. We do not believe that the arguments put forward by the VVD, namely that it would unduly extend the powers of the applicants and that it would be at odds with the principle of legal certainty, are correct. The draft law does not change the substantive liability law. It is, of course, a long time ago that damage caused unlawfully must be compensated by the causer. Companies, organisations and other parties who have in the past been guilty of unlawful injurious practices knew, at least they should have known, that they could successfully be held liable for such damage. They could easily avoid this risk by complying with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr Van Nispen has already stopped for the interruption of Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	Is it not a form of legal certainty that when the damage is caused, the laws in force then apply? Secondly, is it not a problem that it can confuse procedures? Is it not problematic that, while an old procedure is in operation, an old procedure can be restarted on the basis of the new law, but under the new law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	Obviously. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	I do not think that the latter problem is solved at all by this amendment, because, as I understand it, you have the same problem with the current law. If you change a law like this, you always have old law and new law, and sometimes procedures get mixed up. It's possible. I do not think that will solve the amendment. Normally, I am sensitive to the argument of legal certainty. I've really thought about that, too. In my view, this law does not change substantive liability law, but the Minister will have to correct me if I am wrong on this point. In my opinion, companies, large organisations and factories should simply comply with the law. If they cause damage, they have to compensate for it. That is the case now, and it will continue to be the case. Only with this legislative proposal we are trying to establish a procedure whereby people can collectively make such a claim for damages. On the contrary, the legislative proposal serves legal certainty. It ensures more legal certainty for consumers and also for the harmdoers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u11	Again, the harming parties could easily avoid this risk by simply complying with the law. The Consumers' Association also says quite clearly: to protect those who have willingly taken this risk with the argument that they would not have had the opportunity to prepare for the advent of a new law if it also applies to old events... that is not a good argument. Therefore, I do not understand why we should be taking on the cause of damage, often large companies. In this case, the SP really chooses the interests of the injured. There is a second amendment, and that concludes me. That is the amendment to item No. 16. That's about the opt-in when there's a view on reaching a settlement. If I read it correctly, the VVD suggests that, in certain circumstances, the judge can offer the possibility to ask the injured parties in writing if they want to be bound by a settlement. Those affected are then expected to take action in order to give their consent in advance to a settlement the content of which is not even established and whose completion is still uncertain. We do not think that this is a desirable situation either. For this amendment stipulates that the interests of those who do not at that time, for whatever reason, will no longer be taken into account in the collective procedure. This too is too rigorous with regard to the SP and I do not think we will support this amendment either. Of course, the Minister is going to respond to all the amendments, but specifically with regard to these amendments, I would like the Minister also to respond to the arguments I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Then we'll continue with Mr. Grotehuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. As I said in last year's budget debate, our rule of law needs permanent attention. Effective access to justice and legal certainty for the accused party are central to this legislative proposal. It's about access to justice, because as a corrupted person, you want to be easily compensated for your damage, and for legal certainty, because you don't want to get involved in all kinds of claims too quickly as a lawyer. Mr. Chairman. This proposal has a long history. It started with the Dijksma motion in 2011. Science at the time was very critical of the preliminary draft with which the minister came three years later. The NSA found it "hardly readable" and the Council of Justice said it was "inefficient and ineffective" and "not to be executed before the courts." As a result, the cabinet had to return to the drawing board. After extensive consultation with the practice, this led to a much better legislative proposal, as far as I am concerned, especially after the first letter of amendment. It included stricter safeguards for the interests of the injured, a second possibility for the injured not to participate in the proceedings and an obligation for both parties to try to reach a settlement. Mr. Chairman. I told you, as far as I'm concerned, the bill is well thought out and balanced. I read sufficient safeguards against a claim culture, the burden on the judicial apparatus is taken into account, and there seems to be plenty of possibilities for non-damaging. At the moment, therefore, I do not think that a great deal of work on the law is appropriate. We will have to see how it works in practice, and we will evaluate it in five years' time. In doing so, I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to the question whether this legislative proposal has in the end had an effect on that claim culture which several colleagues have spoken about and on which I can also imagine the concerns. I would like a response from the Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. When reading this bill, which was also a bit exotic to me, I thought of the daughters of women who used to swallow the des hormone during their pregnancy. Those daughters became seriously ill at a later age. They then started a collective action against pharmaceutical companies that had made that hormone. In the end, I think they were compensated for this for a very long time in 2006. Since 2005, it is possible that one party will negotiate on behalf of all those injured daughters about the remuneration to be paid. But the question remained, of course, what do you do if parties don't want to negotiate? This bill is actually a stick behind the door. If, after a while, it turns out that the parties aren't coming out, then the judge himself can provide for the case. I think that's a win. Mr. Chairman. Now that there may be good money to be made with this bill, the judge should also take a close look at the reliability of the party acting on behalf of such a group of injured people, for example. This reliability may come under pressure with third-party financiers who exercise influence and have a self-interest. As far as I am concerned, due to the last amendment, this influence has been sufficiently limited. The court also has the opportunity to assess whether the interests of the injured are sufficiently guaranteed. Thus, a frivolous collective action before the judge will end on the summary test and the judge will not come to a substantive examination. The only thing that wasn't quite clear is that it doesn't seem to me to be explicitly stated in the bill, which shows precisely that the judgment must be "inadmissibility'. If the judge concludes that the summary test is not being passed, where exactly do I read that "inadmissibility" is the judgment? I couldn't quite find it here. A bit of a technical question, I admit, Mr President, but I would like a reply from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Yet there remains a certain feeling that third-party financiers with dubious interests can get too much room for manoeuvre: the claim cowboys. This raised the question as to why a firmer cost assessment was not chosen if a claim was not properly substantiated, for example by claim cowboys. I'd like a response to that point from the Minister. I have also tabled an amendment on this. I told you, I don't see any reason to work on the proposal very much. But specifically on this point, a possible punishment for over-inflicted claims by people who are primarily looking for financial gain could be punished by condemning them to the costs of the proceedings. I initially tabled an amendment to that effect, which I amended after a number of people pointed out to me that it was better not to do so at the very back of the procedure, but to do it correctly with the briefness test and the admissibility judgment. That is the most obvious moment when the claim ends. I hope that this amendment will be tabled shortly. At least we're working hard on it. I hope the Minister can still take this with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. Mr Van Nispen has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u15	It's more of a enlightening question. We got the amended amendment. I have not yet been able to read it in full and understand it, so I do need a little more explanation of this amendment. At what stage of the procedure should the judge be given the power to impose a higher judgment on the costs of proceedings, if I understand correctly, and what exactly is Mr Groothuizen trying to avoid?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u16	That is a fair question, because that is exactly where the change is. At first, I saw that in front of me at the end of the procedure. But people who know more about it have pointed out to me that the following is much more obvious. The judge shall determine whether the claim is sufficiently substantiated and whether all those persons meet the requirements of the interim admissibility test and summaryness test. The judge has to give a judgment on that. When he comes to the conclusion that the claim is not sufficiently substantiated and says that the claim ends, probably on the basis of inadmissibility, you could, as it were, give an extra tap to those defenders of interest who did not comply with it. That is why I asked the Minister the enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u17	I'm gonna look at it and think about it. What I have understood so far is that it is often very difficult for consumer organisations to obtain funding to start a business at all. Of course, I'm not in favour of frivolous claims either. We need to do something about that and we need to prevent it. But should we not also fear that the threshold will be so high that there may be a deterrent effect? Because, of course, the D66 amendment could lead people to think: it is already so difficult to get the funding around and then I run the risk of getting a very high trial judgment. How does Mr Groothuizen weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u18	I get that question. Therefore, the judge can do so and must always take into account fairness. In that respect, there are enough valves in it for the judge to really distinguish between people who have had to go to a lot of trouble to justify that claim where they have not been able to do so and people who have really tried to cheat, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u19	That also provokes an interruption from Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u20	It's more of a question for clarification. I have just understood in this whole legislative proposal that the judge will only be required if the parties do not come out of it themselves. Especially with the parties, the primacy lies to get out. But with this amendment you are asking the court at the front, so at the entrance to the shop, to give a preliminary assessment of what is likely to be found at the end of the story. I find that complicated when you look at the intention of the law, which is that the judge is more like a trial counselor. If it doesn't work at all, the judge does his job, but preferably parties have to come out of it themselves. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u21	I shall read the proposal differently from Mr Van Dam. In my view, the claim is filed and the court must then consider a number of admissibility requirements and see whether the claim is sufficiently substantiated. The judge's gonna have to give a judgment. If he thinks that bar has been passed, he'll send the parties in the hallway to settle. It is precisely that moment before the settlement that this amendment sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Just because you're in your right doesn't always mean you can get the right. That is also what we discussed this morning in the debate on legal aid. I also very much hope that the debate will run better here. I can say that the omens are favourable, because the legislative proposal before us is well in place as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Well, that's a good thing to say. I agree with the solution and also with the problem analysis underlying it. It is now very difficult for the injured to go to court if, for example, they have taken financial products, usury policies, causing enormous damage, or medicines. Like Mr Groothuizen, I was thinking of the desdaughters who, to this day, are suffering the terrible consequences of what turned out to be a very harmful medicine. I also thought of others, such as soldiers who have become sick from the use of chromium-6. All these people have the right to justice. Facilitating an easily accessible course of justice is the least we can do. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that all those affected can easily achieve their rights by bringing together similar cases. This, in the words of the Minister, offers groups of citizens who have been disadvantaged by the same event a coordinated and effective resolution of their case by the judge in collective proceedings. We support that principle. I do have one more question. First of all, the EU has a "New Deal for Consumers" presented a proposal for a directive on the collective settlement of mass claims. In the further report, GroenLinks asked to what extent this bill is in line with that directive or that proposal to that effect. The Association of Securities Owners pointed out earlier that the proposed directive does not rely on exclusive advocacy in the resolution of mass damage. It seems that the directive wants to leave it to the courts to assess whether there are conflicting interests between groups of victims of similar cases. So, while the draft directive assumes that the judge will have to decide how to deal with it, the proposal that we are discussing today, in my opinion, requires that one exclusive representative be appointed and that there are only limited possibilities for some sort of opt-out if you want your interests to be represented elsewhere. I would like some clarification on how this bill relates to that proposal in Europe. I have also seen that there is an evaluation clause. In five years' time, we will start to evaluate this further. That seems very important to me. At the same time, of course, we want the cabinet to keep its finger on the pulse in the meantime. I would like to know from the Minister what he thinks of the idea of providing a sounding board group which discusses the experiences with the settlement of mass claims, so that, for example, we as a parliament could be informed on an annual basis about how it works now. I do not have any further questions with regard to the legislative proposal, but I do need a genuinely comprehensive examination of the Minister's proposals made by the VVD. Let me at least ask a question about that. With regard to the proposal to ensure that there really is a connection with the Netherlands, to keep the letterbox companies outside this bill and to ensure that no claim is made against these parties, my first tendency is not necessarily to support the letterbox companies. It may be necessary. I therefore want to understand whether this can have effects on people's rights elsewhere. I don't know what international law is like. Could it be that in that country it is said: if there is a profession or a corridor open in the country where it is located, then you should not be with us? I actually want to know very well how to prevent this from becoming some sort of mouse hole for the letterbox companies. With regard to transitional rights, I share Mr Van Nispen's view. The argument states that parties have now had no opportunity to prepare for the coming of the new law. I too do not really see the material change. I do not think that we need to help parties who first deliver bad products in order to prevent them from facing consumers. The last thing I want to ask is about the proposal that you can't claim money. I understand the idea in itself that it applies to the part of the ideal claims, but it can of course also be that claiming money is ultimately part of the punishment for a company. Then it is not so much a matter of satisfying consumers, as part of the punishment for companies for having supplied a defective product. My question to the Minister is to deal in detail with these proposals from the VVD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. Now we're gonna listen to Mr. Van Dam from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Chairman. This bill originates from a motion by former colleague Dijksma of the Labour Party. At that time the CDA did not stand on the benches to applaud the proposal, but we actually do today, because in the end the bill has become a good product. It is a good legislative proposal, which contributes to the legal protection of citizens, who are increasingly faced with large companies providing mass products or services today. I'm thinking service providers, big companies or a bank. This bill offers the opportunity to make a fist against companies like this, with an investor in the background. The law includes mechanisms to prevent us from developing an excessive claim culture in the Netherlands, but in particular the active review role assigned to the judge can to a large extent receive our approval. Mr. Chairman. The collective action has a history of origin that goes back to the 1990s. At that time, it was not possible to achieve a collective settlement of the damage. This has been tried to accommodate this in the current law collective action mass damage, by enabling some sort of collective settlement to be made. However, there is still no possibility of collectively enforcing or receiving compensation. If the injured party does not wish to cooperate in any form of settlement, it is currently causing problems. The present law is a solution to that. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not a country with a clear claim culture, and my party would like to keep it that way. The average amount of compensation is relatively low and, for example, in medical care, less than 0.2% of the money for hospital care goes to the compensation of medical misses. This is very different in a country like America, but the Netherlands is also part of a rapidly changing world. What I welcome about this proposal is that it has been developed in close consultation with interest groups. It has thus become a compromise, with guarantees for both parties in the process. This is also evident from the opinions we have received. In principle, all organisations can live well with the current proposal. I do, however, have a few questions for the Minister, in particular to clarify, for example, on the relationship of this bill to claimants abroad and a possible withdrawal effect. It is important that we avoid claims hopping, even in the case of ideal claims, hence the support of the CDA for the amendment of the VVD on this point. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. How does he look at this? Several colleagues have already preceded me to call on him to comment on the VVD proposals. Mr. Chairman. My group would also like to see a clarification of public liability in this legislative proposal. The case of chromium-6 has already been mentioned. In the past, there have also been court cases involving citizens who, as ex-worker or ordinary citizen, suffered damage by public authorities. That didn't turn out very well. How's that gonna run under this new law? Some questions have been answered in the written round, but I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees any consequences for mass damage claims addressed to the government and, if so, which ones. One objection that existed in the 1990s with regard to collective actions is the question of the compensation calculation. The principle was always that damage could not be assessed collectively but only individually, because compensation is calculated in concrete terms on the basis of an individual claim. The Minister states that mass damage can be dealt with collectively by categorizing the damage. This differs from the current concept of harm in civil law. Can the Minister confirm this? Or does the Minister insist on what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, namely that the bill does not alter the right to compensation in this respect? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the role of the exclusive representative in relation to the other interest groups, I ask the Minister what has been arranged for the cases where there is disagreement between the various interest groups. That's not entirely hypothetical. What if, for example, it turns out that various interest groups did not agree from the outset with the way in which the procedure was conducted by the exclusive representative? Is it possible to appoint several exclusive representatives of interests? Is there a limit on that? The second letter of amendment also raised a single question on the review of judicial funding. Is my reading that the judge always automatically assesses the extent to which a third party may have a influence on the procedure, but that it is up to the judge himself to do so? And is it true that the judge can ask for the financing agreement but is not obliged to do so? Mr. Chairman. We support, to a large extent, the VVD's amendments, but we have a few comments on the amendment on transitional rights. Yes, it is true that in general substantive law does not change until the date of entry into force of the law and that formal law has retroactive effect. If you change anything in the Code of Criminal Procedure now, that also applies to the murder to be solved that was committed years ago. Of course, that adagium also applies to this story. In the case of legal protection, of course, it is also very important that individual citizens should have extensive legal protection, which is also the charm of this legislative proposal. We believe that companies must also have a floor to stand up if they are to be able to do business. This legislation is also widely applied worldwide to give people the means to deal with mass damage and bring it to justice. It is true that it is formal law, but it does mean in material terms what the financial risks that companies can run. In this context, we support this amendment of the VVD, knowing that the existing legislation applies to cases prior to 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u26	For the sake of clarity, Mr Van Dam says that it affects the financial risks a company would have taken if there were no transitional right. I'm trying to understand that. Does the CDA suppose that perhaps more care would have been taken for certain products if one had known that otherwise it could have led to mass damage claims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u27	No, what I really want to say is that no matter how much it is formal legislation, the citizen who is harmed and united with others, has much more material control over this law to appeal to companies. The old legislation will continue to apply to those old cases. It's not like there's nothing left. I believe that, especially because of the influence of investors who can support these actions, this type of action will be much more frequent. I think that is a material change to the situation. I attach great importance to the fact that people with major damage caused by a company that has offered wrong products in the past are able to go to court. But I do think that it will change the playing field enormously if you allow the new legislation to apply to those old damages. That is a material change for those companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u28	I'm still trying to understand what's gonna change. There will then be a claim about a product that was absolutely inadequate and I understand that this will cause damage. We are giving consumers more tools now, but I find it difficult to understand that we are saying that it does not apply to consumers who have been harmed before. I do not quite understand the argument. It seems that it is sad that consumers have these resources in their hands, because they did not know about them before. The point is that companies knew earlier that they were not allowed to supply defective products.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u29	I fully agree with you on that. I just think that legal certainty is not something that only citizens can share, but also businesses in what they are trying to do. I can imagine that companies that make mass products or offer mass services will make other reservations in their financial reserves, given that this legislation applies in the Netherlands. This is legislation that is really different from what we had and what countries have around us. That is also to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u30	I welcome the fact that Mr Van Dam says that it can be done legally. What the Minister is proposing can also be done with some retroactive effect. Because it does not change the liability of producers or factories, which remains. Well, then I have one more question. In fact, Mr Van Dam says: when it comes to an old situation, people who have suffered damage for which another person is liable, must actually all of us individually go to court to get their rights. In fact, we are denying them the possibility, which is contained in the Minister's proposal, of doing so jointly with a collective action. I don't understand why the CDA makes that choice. Because then you actually keep the harmdoers over your head, while you can also say that we are broadening access to justice for people in the way the government once suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u31	I understand that on this day you are in very different systems and worlds and I am with you. However, I think you should mention what I just said to Mrs Buitenweg, namely that the old legislation that people can make use of leads to a different result. This leads either to a settlement, a collective settlement, or to a judgment that allows people to go to court themselves. If that were the difference, I might still go with you. But the fact that private investors can come on board here, which I am all in favour of, also means that people's position is becoming many times stronger and different from what companies have taken into account in the past. I think that's the difference that's in here. I therefore believe that it should be a balanced thing between the legal protection of citizens and the legal protection of companies. This is very important when it comes to whether you can run a business in the Netherlands in a responsible way. Because if the signs are suddenly moved halfway through the game, that means an essential difference for your business operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u32	The signs would not be moved until we did change the substantive liability law, so if we were to say: you are now liable for everything and everything. But of course it isn't. Those parties were already responsible and remain responsible, only we make it easier for the injured to join forces. I don't have a question anymore, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam, please reconsider your support for this amendment, precisely in order to make it easier for the injured to get what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u33	If Mr. Van Nispen asks me to reconsider something, all I can say is that I will. I think I was at the end of my term. Maybe it's also good to... no, I'm at the end of my term. We've said so much today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you. Then we'll continue with Mr. Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u35	Madam President. On behalf of the SGP Group, I would like to say that we agree with the thrust of this legislative proposal. It has been many years since the Dijksma motion was cited. At times like these it happens that MPs grumbling that it all took so long. I do not think this is appropriate in this case, because this time has been used to gain greater support from all parties involved for this bill and also to make further clarifications and improvements. I therefore think that the time has been spent in this respect. It is precisely that common actions are possible for citizens and businesses who have suffered the same type of damage, so that they are streamlined more strictly. That is, of course, a good thing. But especially for the situations in which toasters explode, agricultural tools fail or any other unpleasant things, I hope that the first reaction of the company itself is always to try to find out as many of the victims as possible and to compensate for their damage. That is the first thing, but unfortunately it is often a bit more complicated and is being put on trial. Then it is good that there are procedures like those we are talking about today. The point is to strike a balance between the interests of those who suffer damage and the persons or bodies to whom the damage is recovered. I believe that no contribution has been made today in which the word 'claim culture' did not come back. And indeed, the SGP Group also says that we must ensure that we do not end up in a claim culture where every small point becomes a major issue from which we try to benefit financially. On the other hand, a justified claim must be able to be handled properly and quickly. We believe that the main thrust of the legislative proposal is good. Mr Van Gent has tabled a number of amendments. Having heard the broad support for the legislative proposal, I think that today's debate will focus on the amendments that are still before us. I do not wish to go into them in detail, because I agree with most of the explanatory statement put forward by Mr Van Gent, both in writing and orally. He clearly stated in his amendment that he wanted to counter claim tourism. Then there is the amendment in the area of the ideal goals, the so-called opt-in, and finally that on the transitional right, which has just been the subject of the most extensive discussion. I think it is clear that you are actually making a choice and that there are not necessarily compelling arguments for choosing one or the other. For each choice you can also argue again. I'd be happy to admit that. Or you can say: material doesn't change anything, so why don't you go back as soon as you can? You can also say that the SGP Group also gives the greatest weight to the fact that, in any case, it is a question of the legal certainty of the parties involved. This also involves financial interests. We actually liked the way in which we chose the line that Mr Van Gent had in the amendment to item No. 13 is worded. That is why we have co-signed this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you. Finally, from the side of the Chamber in the first term, we are going to listen to Mr Markuszower's contribution from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mr President, for the danger of any repetition, because I am the last speaker. Following the 2011 Dijksma motion, which our group supported at the time, we are discussing this proposal today. The PVV, like the cabinet, sees that the need for collective resolution in mass damage has increased over the last decades. More and more large groups of consumers face collective problems when the seller fails. The collective action was already governed by the law, but not by the collective action to date. The PVV welcomes the fact that this bill adds a missing link to consumer protection. However, my group still has a number of questions. In cross-border cases, collective action is often complicated. The PVV wants to rule out the possibility that large organisations, such as NGOs, can start Ideal claims against the Netherlands, for example for insufficient action against climate change. In this way, the law can have unintended effects in the eyes of the PVV. Does the Minister also see and share this concern? I'd like a response. My group also shares the concerns regarding the requirements of a sufficient link with the Netherlands to start a mass damage procedure. A mass damage procedure is only accessible if there is a sufficiently close link with the Netherlands. Under the proposed law, this is already the case if only one of the conditions for a relationship with the Netherlands is met, for example only if the defendant is established in the Netherlands or the event has taken place in the Netherlands. The spokesperson of the VVD Group, and as a result other MPs in this debate, have already spoken about this. My group sincerely shares the same concerns. My group is therefore very interested in the Minister's answers to the questions put by Mr Van Gent. Not everything the VVD says is always unwise. We await the Minister's response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. We're gonna suspend until 3:35. Then we will listen to the answer of the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u39	The Minister for Legal Protection is ready for his first term, so I will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the bill Settlement mass damage in a collective action. This bill introduces a collective compensation action in Dutch law. Why? Citizens and businesses may be harmed by similar events. For example, they have all bought that one defective product, or patients suffer damage by using the same type of medicine. In such cases, we speak of mass damage. Now it is not always easy to hold the person who caused the damage responsible. Sometimes the cost of a procedure does not outweigh the damage suffered, or someone simply does not have the time and energy to go through such a very long process on his own. As a collective, you're stronger. We have a number of arrangements for this in the Netherlands. In 1994, collective action was incorporated into the law, the possibility of initiating collective proceedings for a group of victims of similar interest. Moreover, since 2005, the court has been able to make a settlement between an accused party and an interest organisation binding on all injured parties. This is a good instrument in itself, but it also has an important disadvantage: the settlement can only be made binding if both parties agree. Sometimes it is not clear with which interest organisation an addressed party can settle, for example because several interest groups act for the same group of citizens. Or the accused party won't settle. In that case, he can stretch the procedure endlessly. Without a collective settlement, citizens and businesses will have to claim their damages individually, and that is costly. Social costs are also high. The judiciary can face a huge influx of actually similar cases. For example, the usury policy case involved several tens of thousands. The party addressed must also take into account a flow of procedures for many years. That makes it difficult to put a line under the past and continue. This bill will change that. It introduces an efficient and also more coordinated procedure to deal with the whole mass case at once. The court will be given the opportunity to determine a collective compensation for all the injured. Some of you have already referred to it: we have not gone ice in one night. This proposal has been worked on for a long time. There has also been hard work to see with many parties whether we could come to something that everyone feels comfortable with. I think it's worth a compliment. And I will also pass on the compliment immediately because I believe that it has been working for almost six or seven years, and I am only sitting here for another year on the officials who have been working on it. They have succeeded in achieving something that the Consumers' Union, as well as VNO-NCW, the business representatives, say is so good. Thanks also to them for the many useful and valuable advice. Very briefly, what are the benefits of this new procedure? It provides citizens and businesses with a common, efficient course of justice that will compensate for their individual damage. Secondly, appealing companies are given an efficient course of action with guarantees. They know where they stand and can then focus on the future, with a sustainable solution that has ended this matter in the end. Thirdly, the judicial system is relieved by the coordination of cases and the streamlining of procedures. I can tell there's a lot of support for the bill. That's good. However, a number of proposals have been made to amend it on a number of points. I shall go into the amendments a little more in detail, because questions have also been asked about them. The question has also been asked to consider it a little more extensively. And then there are a number of additional questions, which I will deal with afterwards. I want to start with the band with the Netherlands. The new procedure is intended for matters affecting the Dutch legal sphere. Therefore, the collective claim must have a sufficiently close relationship with the Netherlands. This is the case if the majority of the victims live in this country, if the defendant lives in the Netherlands or if the event took place in the Netherlands. Degraded people outside the Netherlands will only participate if they actively report this. Mr Van Gent has already referred to this. Along with the CDA and the SGP, he has tabled an amendment, namely No. 12. This has the same purpose as the legislative proposal, namely to allow only cases sufficiently connected with the Netherlands to be eligible for this specific scheme. The amendment strengthens that requirement and states that if the defendant resides in the Netherlands, additional circumstances must indicate that connection with the Netherlands. Thus, for example, the mere fact that a subsidiary is established in the Netherlands is insufficient. I believe that the wording chosen is justified. It leaves the judge room for a interpretation that does justice to the demands of community loyalty. I can therefore also live with this proposal. I think it also appeals to the concerns that lived with Mr Markuszower of the PVV: how do you ensure that people, because there is such a good arrangement here, find no improper way to start a business here anyway? I can live with this proposal and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Secretary, there is a question from Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u42	The word 'letterbox company' has also been mentioned, and I would like to ask the Minister if he could say anything about it. I have a huge need to name brand names now, but I shouldn't. But, of course, there are best firms which, for that very reason, have a legal entity in this country where, in fact, not so much activity takes place, but where perhaps the entire capital of the company flows through. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u43	Eventually, a judge has to check whether there is indeed grounds for such a procedure, when one comes from abroad to the Netherlands and says "we want to start this case here and we want to hear the damage done by company X or Y" through this Dutch procedure, whatever company it is. The judge must then see if it has indeed been a Dutch problem and whether a Dutch company has stood up for it. As a cabinet we say that we need to be more critical of letterbox companies, because they are often empty companies that are only set up for tax constructions. So we have to be critical about that. We have to ask ourselves whether such letterbox companies have played a substantial role in the whole. But to rule it out categorically, I find something. Leave it to the judge to see if there's any substantial ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u44	I would not be in favour of excluding it either, just to clarify it. What is the construction? One has rights to goods, for example the right to develop a certain bookcase, to name but a few. This is the legal person in the Netherlands. The production companies have to pay money for that. So there's more to it than just money; there's rights in it. I could therefore very well imagine that this is a basis for involving or not involving in collective action in this way. Of course the judge has to test that, but I think it is very important in the development of law and lawmaking that we should also give that judge a hook on which he can then possibly hang that interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u45	I imagine that you will then look at exactly what the role of that company has been in the Netherlands. To what extent is it filled with capital, duties or other items? To what extent did people work? To what extent has this company in the Netherlands had a truly obvious role in, for example, a scandal that has played in which people have suffered damage? I believe that this amendment is intended to say what we should be careful about. Suppose, so to speak, something happened in Brazil to a large company that happens to have a subsidiary here and that people in Brazil say: this is interesting; the Netherlands has a very good redress procedure, and we are now coming to the Netherlands to follow that procedure. In my view, that would be improper use of that regulation. This amendment is a little more stringent than the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u46	It is indeed important that a judge can see if it is appropriate. But is it not true that in the current legislative proposal there is more room for the judge and that the amendment of the VVD restricts it? Isn't that why it's better to just stick to the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u47	The bill says that there is sufficient ground if the defendant is established in the Netherlands. That is also the case, for example, if, in a manner of speaking, there is a subsidiary here, even if it has nothing to do with the substance of the case. This amendment tightens up a little bit more that the judge should look beyond just the address. He needs to see if that subsidiary really played a role in the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u48	Do I understand correctly that in the current legislative proposal the judge is obliged to initiate proceedings if a letterbox company is established in the Netherlands and a case is brought against it, and that he then has no room to say that it is actually inappropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u49	I think it's the other way around. I believe that the judge should check whether there was a letterbox, just an address, or whether the organisation that has an establishment here has also made an active contribution to the tortious act that caused the damage. For example, the simple fact that a company has a subsidiary in this country is not enough to start a business here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the requirements that an interest organisation must meet. A collective redress action may be initiated by a representative interest organisation. The bill contains strict requirements for organisations wishing to initiate this procedure. The quality of these organisations is thus guaranteed in Article 305a. People with disabilities will soon know who they trust their interests with, and the interested parties will know who they're doing business with. The demands are for transparency, financing and organisation of these organisations. It's a real shame. Organisations must have a supervisory body. The victims must be informed about the purpose and the way in which they work. The organisation itself must have sufficient control over the claim, even if there are third party financers. Drivers involved in the establishment of an interest organisation shall not be allowed to make a profit. I think that's very important myself. The claim must have a sufficiently close relationship with the Netherlands; we have just discussed this. And an annual report must be drawn up. These requirements are not necessary in all cases, because what we ask interest groups to establish is quite a construct. Certainly in some difficult cases, even where financial compensation is claimed, I think it is right, but you should see if it is always right. For example, take Bureau Clara Wichmann, which makes a claim to allow women over 75 to participate in population research. You have to ask yourself: do you have to make all these demands to such a foundation? Or what about a residents' association that says: we all suffer from a roof that leaks; that needs to be repaired? Does that association have to have a supervisory board? That is one of the reasons why the judge can make an exception to one or more of these requirements. It is possible for a claim with an ideal purpose and a very limited financial interest or because of the nature of the claim. For example, these types of interest groups also have access to collective action under the new law. An amendment has been tabled, in part No. 14, of VVD, CDA and SGP. They want some admissibility requirements to always apply. This applies to the requirement that directors of an interest organisation are not directly or indirectly profit-making. And there must be sufficient links with the Netherlands for every collective claim. The bill leaves to the court what requirements apply and do not apply to a particular ideal claim. The amendment lays down a number of requirements in advance. We agree that a resident organisation that has the stairs repaired should not spend months trying to set up an organization. As far as I am concerned, this will also ensure access for this type of organisation. I could give this amendment 'Room of Justice'. What can an interest organisation claim? Suppose the judge made less demands on an interest organization, say through the first hoop. VVD, CDA and SGP, with the amendment to item No. 15 to ensure that no compensation can be claimed. In the event of a claim for damages, an interest organisation must comply with all the admissibility requirements. I can understand that amendment in principle. In any case, it gives clarity to the parties on the front. If the court has not applied all the admissibility requirements to an interest organisation, it cannot claim compensation at a later stage. So it's really about an ideal purpose. I can leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. I also say immediately that if an organisation says 'we also want to make a financial claim', that road is not closed, but that you have to meet all these security requirements. I think that's enough room. Then I come to promoting settlement. The bill aims to promote the conclusion of a collective settlement. There are strict eligibility requirements and there will be an exclusive representative, the principal, one might say. In any case, the party addressed knows who is doing this business with. After designation of that exclusive party, parties shall be granted a period of time to settle. Bad guys have to get out of the car if they don't want to play. That's the opt-out that's in the bill right now. If the parties succeed in reaching a collective settlement, the judge may approve it immediately. There is a certain speed and efficiency in this way of working. Mr Grothuizen asked why an opt-out regime was chosen instead of an opt-in. An opt-out regime promotes a solution for as many people as possible and has the advantage that the affected party also knows that it removes the case, at least for the parties that have not opted for the opt-out. If an opt-in is successful, only those who have been affected will benefit from the procedure if they have actively indicated that they are participating. The accused party may then still be confronted with the claims of these injured parties. That makes it difficult to settle. Then there's not enough of a line under the past, you might say. VVD and SGP want something extra. The amendment in part No. 16 proposes that the court may apply an additional opt-in before a collective settlement is reached. Anyone who wishes to participate in that possible settlement should report this actively. That is the Australian example mentioned by Mr Van Gent. The idea is that the interested parties will know better for whom that settlement is now being concluded. Sometimes you know who opted for the opt-out, but you don't know who's actually signing up from the opt-in to claim the damage. That can bring some uncertainty to the process for the party that has to pay and who may want to settle, but needs more clarity in order to reach a deal eventually. According to the amendment, the judge may apply such an additional opt-in, but subject to a number of strict conditions, namely that it is necessary to reach a settlement; that it is in the interest of all the parties involved not only of the company making the settlement, but also of the injured party, so to speak, and that the contours of that settlement are sufficiently defined. The amendment does mean, I would add, an additional round of calls for parties, and that also costs money. And if there's a settlement, harmdoers who haven't responded in time can only claim individual damages. They have not lost their rights, but they fall back on the individual damage story. You notice a little bit about my story that this is a choice with both sides pros and cons. I myself prefer the choice in the bill. Now I am assuming that we will be dealing with real exceptions with a possibility clause. It is therefore up to the court to grant it; it is not an obligation. So I do not find the amendment destructive either, and I can therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide. Mr President, then there are the other safeguards. In addition to the strict receptivity requirement, the legislative proposal contains a number of safeguards: the collective claim must be more efficient and effective than individual claims, and the collective claim must not be succinct. So it shouldn't be about bullshit claims, you might say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr. Minister, I think Mr. Van Nispen has a question about the judgment of the previous amendment. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u53	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I got up a little late, but thank you. However, I would like to comment on the Minister's assessment of the previous amendment. I understand him and I think the Minister is also very honest when he says: on the one hand, the amendment has advantages, but I do prefer the legislative proposal. The Minister then said: the amendment is not destructive, i.e. it is not destructive for the objectives of the bill, and so I leave it to the Chamber. I don't mind the Minister being lenient in the Chamber. For example, I also like it when my motions get Chamber judgment or even are taken over, but this is actually a bit too easy for me. When the Minister says that he prefers what he wrote in the bill, I find it a little strange that the Minister says about an amendment: because it is not destructive, I give the judgment Chamber. By the way, I complimented him on what he wrote in the bill by saying: that seems to me to be a really good choice in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u54	Perhaps then I expressed myself a little heavily, because I understand what Mr Van Nispen is saying. He rightly says that you should not only discourage yourself in destructive amendments, but also simply say what you think is best. I hope he tastes a little bit in my weighing that I think it is a good arrangement on the one hand. If this were the default option of some kind of extra opt-in just before settlement, it might be unnecessarily delaying. It may therefore lead to unnecessary additional costs, but because it is a possibility and the courts can bring it under a number of very strict conditions, I think it will only be used in real exceptional cases. You could also say: you actually leave it to the judge whether this has added value in exceptional circumstances. I have a preference for the baseline, the basic option, but I believe that this basic option will still be maintained even after the amendment has been adopted, because it is a can-determine that is strictly conditional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u55	But that doesn't make sense, does it? If the Minister says he has a preference for what he has written in his own bill, the Minister can say to the Chamber: "I have submitted a better proposal myself. If you make a different choice, that is a choice that does not undermine the entire objective of the law." However, I find the Chamber's judgment a little strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u56	I say Court judgment, because my assessment is also that it is an exception route, which will be applied very limited in practice and on the basis of the judge's judgement. This actually leads you to the standard route, which is the route that describes this bill. It's actually an extra option for the judge. I do not think that is so difficult that I would advise against it towards the Chamber. This is a real choice. I think I have outlined both sides of this and said what the benefits could be. I see Mr Van Gent now walking to the interrupting microphone. You may be able to come up with arguments as to why, in some exceptional cases, with such an extra opt-in at the very last moment, you can come to a settlement easier, because that offers more certainty for those who have to settle. I leave the choice to the Chamber, hence judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you. Mr. Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u58	The Minister has already replied to what I wanted to say, but just to be clear. If it's an exception the judge has to apply and it's probably just going to be applied... that's what I hear from your words. If it has an added value, then this addition always has an added value to the law, because that can lead to a faster settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u59	Yeah, that's the other side of the story. You can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yeah, every story has multiple sides. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u61	I hope that I have given cause for thought and that all the groups can make an informed choice. Other guarantees. The bill contains a number of safeguards. I have already mentioned them: a more efficient and effective flow of the process rather than individual claims and the requirement of summary impropriety. It is only when the court is satisfied that the action will also be dealt with in substance. Moreover, the losing party is ordered to pay the costs. This will encourage only sensible claims to be made. D66 with the amendment on item No. 17 add a number of additional safeguards against unnecessary or nonsensical claims, especially when an external financier is involved or may be involved. He would like to see an organisation of interests which is declared inadmissible because its claim is merely inadequate be ordered to pay higher costs in the case-law judgment up to a maximum of five times the normal winding-up rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u62	The amendment to No. 17 has been replaced by No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u63	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u64	I'll take a look at the petitioner. What exactly has changed so that the Minister can give his opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u65	The Minister's reaction was a good response to the change, but it is indeed No. 18 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u66	And what is the amendment to No. 18 compared to No. 17, so the Minister can respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u67	I told you. The substantive response was to the right amendment. He just mentioned the wrong number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u68	I only have the old song myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u69	Obviously, I'm sorry. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. In addition to all the safeguards in the legislative proposal, I do not think that the additional guarantee in the amendment is necessary in all cases, because it can also work to raise the threshold. At the same time, application is not mandatory here, and this may also be exceptional cases. Actually, you're giving the judge an extra opportunity to reach judgment. This is also the case where I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an amendment which I expect to have some more discussion, or at least some discussion about, namely the transitional right. The bill contains transitional rights. Cases brought before the entry into force continue to be governed by the old law. This prevents, for example, all kinds of more stringent admissibility requirements for a collective procedure in progress or the courts still have to designate an exclusive representative of interests. Mr Groothuizen also asked about this. In any event, if a case is brought after the entry into force of the law, the new procedure will apply according to the proposal now before us. This applies regardless of the time of the event causing the damage. So it could have happened in the past. With effect from the new law, the new procedure will apply. Similarly, mass damage from previous events, past events, can be dealt with efficiently and co-ordinated. Mr Groothuizen also asks what happens if there is a collective action when the bill comes into force, for example for a declaration of the law that the accused party has acted unlawfully. Can the interest organisation then use the new procedure to claim compensation collectively? The answer is that pending procedures are being completed on the basis of the old law. The judge has sufficient possibilities to avoid a cross-over of proceedings. For example, he can continue the new procedure until the old one has been decided. Then an amendment has been tabled, the amendment under No. 13 of the VVD, the CDA and the SGP, which actually wants to tighten up that transitional provision even further. The new procedure will then only apply for events from 15 November 2016, the time of filing of this bill. The bill offers advantages over current practice. So you can argue on the one hand that it is a pity that things prior to that date are not eligible and that the old procedure should be followed. On the other hand, you can opt for security for all parties, including parties who are called upon to do the damage, so that they have clarity that it starts from a certain date. In the end, I think that's a choice that's up to the Chamber. That is why I would like to give this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u71	The Minister began his story so beautifully by saying that it is very good that there is a proposal. That is very much what I have mentioned in my contribution, but that is not for nothing. So I find it very difficult that that balance is a little disturbed by this amendment from the VVD. I was actually hoping for a more critical response from the Minister. It contains precisely that hard-won balance that so many parties agree on, from the Consumers' Association to business. Why would you upset that balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u72	I don't know if it disturbs that balance, because in material terms, you don't change the new procedure or the new way of working. You're just changing something at the time it was supposed to go in. That's why I'm saying the choice is up to the Chamber. I think it's a good procedure. It doesn't change the law of liability. There was a discussion about that. At the same time, it may be a choice to give a certain security to the companies or other institutions that are called upon to pay for damage they have caused, and they also did not know before that date that this law was there by saying that you are only letting it go on the day of submission and submission of the bill. That choice is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u73	That is true, but the Minister is giving advice on such an amendment. It is a political choice: do we follow the Minister's proposal or do we opt for the VVD amendment? The Minister is well aware that if he gives an amendment judgment, Chamber, it is more likely that such an amendment will succeed than if he says he prefers his own proposal. The choice is actually quite simple: do we choose to protect the companies causing damage or do we choose to allow people who have suffered damage for whom another person is liable to be compensated for their damage? Why, then, do we choose the business world and not the people who have suffered damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u74	I'm really throwing that far from me. We do not choose business here. We leave the arrangement as it is intact. The only question is, when do you let her go in? That choice must ultimately be made by Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u75	However, the Minister for Legal Protection has the right to express a preference for this. It is very important. It does not change material liability law. Those companies remain liable, left or right. The question that lies ahead is whether you make it easier for people to get their rights. Yeah, we're gonna do that, because that's why we have that proposal. But does that also apply to the old cases or not? That's a choice we can make here. It would be nice if the Minister for Legal Protection said that I would advise the Chamber not to accept that amendment from the VVD, because that is something that keeps those harmful companies out of control, and there is no reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u76	We do not keep them above our heads, because they are not waived from the duty of damage in individual cases, but they are covered by the old regime, which now also applies. That's a fine line. I have tabled a bill that will allow it to be applied retroactively in any case. But if the Chamber says it is important that the law and the procedure for damages claims have been known to parties who will be called upon, it may choose a different starting date. In that case, the date of 15 November 2016 seems logical to me. Again, in the end, the choice is yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mrs Buitenweg, on the same point, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u78	Yes, I want clarity now. This means that the Minister has a preference for his own bill and that he therefore does not like the VVD amendment as much as his own bill. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u79	No, I think there is something to be said for both points. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u80	I think that's really weird. You can't say, "I like it both equally"? That's what I'm telling my kids. When they've made something beautiful, I say, "I like it both equally." But I'm looking at this a little bit more in terms of content. We've been working on a bill for years, and that's what's going on. You can make different choices, but I would very much like to know from the Minister what his preference is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u81	In the end, it is the Chamber that makes the choice for or against. The Minister advises us in that. He stays, I think, with his proposal judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u82	Yes. Sometimes things don't matter. Then you say, "Let Parliament choose."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u83	Let us make that difficult decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr. Chairman. Evaluation and monitoring. The bill has an evaluation clause after five years. In any case, I think it would be a good idea to take a thorough look at the legislative proposal. Mr Groothuizen asked for the evaluation to include the impact of the law on the number and type of collective claims that have been brought. I think that's very good. I can promise. Mrs. Buitenweg asked: Are you not going to watch for five years or are you also going to hold your finger on the wrist in the meantime? I believe that Mr Van Nispen suggested the same thing. We have been sitting on the table with a number of parties. I find the suggestion to pull that through so that we can see how things work out a very sensible one. So I can promise we'll do that. I'm also willing to inform you annually about what we see happening. What claims have been received and what does that mean, for example, for the judiciary? Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked. Mrs Buitenweg asked how this relates to the debate that is taking place in Europe. Mr Van Nispen asked whether this is a unique arrangement. How does it relate to similar laws abroad? In drafting this law, we have learned from experience abroad. In other European countries there are also other arrangements for the resolution of mass damage. Portugal and England, for example, have an opt-out procedure. France and Belgium also have a procedure, just like Germany. There are also several countries outside Europe that have it; for example, there was reference here to Australia. So it's not unique what we do here, but every country has its own way of thinking. Mrs Buitenweg's question was: is this interfering with the directive that will be coming from Europe? Not in my eyes. The Commission's starting point is that each EU country has a scheme for collective resolution of damage, but this may differ in its impact. The EU proposal therefore leaves sufficient room for this legislative proposal. That is always the touchstone for us, too, to take a critical look at what they are doing in Brussels. Mr Van Nispen asked: what is the added value of this bill compared to the claim code, which already exists? We have been inspired by the claim code; parts are reflected in the bill. This bill only regulates a number of requirements for the admissibility of the procedure. You can only do that by law and make it compulsory. So this is just a little stronger and it gives a little more grip or guarantee. Mr Groothuizen asked another, as he also pointed out, a bit more technical question, about the sumptuousness or impropriety. Article 1018c (5) of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that substantive treatment is to be carried out only if the claim is not succinct and meets some other requirements. If the claim is not admissible, there will be no substantive examination and the procedure will end. That follows from the article I just mentioned to you. That concludes the procedure. Mr Van Dam asked about the judge's test on third-party financiers and whether that was an automatic review. Yes, that's the case. This is one of the admissibility requirements that the judge will review with the new legislative proposal. There was a follow-up question: how does he do that, can he fill it out himself? Yes, he can, in principle, fill that out himself. But I can very well imagine that in practice, for example, a judge is now asking for a little bit of a financing agreement, or for a budget system of lawfully increased costs, because it is precisely the profit-making that needs to be cleared as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam also raised the question of whether this bill also applies to the State, or to the government. It also applies in principle, but in those cases where compensation is claimed in civil courts. In that case, there must be unlawful action on the part of the State. Where civil servants make a claim to the government as an employer, this is governed by administrative law. Then this scheme does not apply. Then there is the question of what is regulated if there is disagreement between exclusive interest groups during the procedure. That too is a question from Mr Van Dam. The judge may designate one or more organisations to represent such interests. The idea behind this bill was, in principle, to appoint as much as possible one exclusive organisation. But sometimes you see that in certain claims interests may differ so much that although they are the same type of claim, they are of different interests, for example from citizens and businesses, and it is justified to appoint more. That exclusive representative of the interests shall be the principal and also the exclusive performer of the procedural acts. The other interest groups will therefore have to agree to this. But if they do not agree with the way they act, then they can do a number of things: appeal to the exclusive defender of interests and try to adjust them. There will also be consultations. Or if this leads to insufficient results, they can ask the court to file additional procedural documents themselves. That possibility exists. In the extreme case, the right to complain can be used and the exclusive defender of interests can then be replaced by the judge. Is there a limit to the number of exclusive interests? The answer to that is no, but the judge will always be critical, because it really has to be about different interests that can sometimes conflict with each other in a particular claim case. So that shouldn't happen too lightly. Mr. Chairman. I am assuming that I have assessed the amendments and answered the questions, although I am starting to doubt them because I see Mr Groothuizen running to the interrupting microphone. Then I will talk very slowly, so that you can give him the opportunity to ask a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u86	It's more of a clarification. Maybe I don't read it right, and I admit right away that I'm not a civilist, so I may be lost because of this bill, which is sometimes quite complex. My question concerns the following. Article 1018c (5) states that the substantive treatment takes place only after the court has ruled that the admissibility requirements are not met. If the court finds that that is not the case, I assume that the judgment is: inadmissible. But then there are two further requirements, namely that of making it sufficiently plausible and that of the summary requirement. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says: even if the judge concludes that those two requirements are not met, should the explicit judgment be that it is inadmissible? Or is there anything else? That also has an effect on the amendment I tabled, which should be taken into account at that very moment. I am therefore trying to ascertain precisely whether the judge's judgment on all the circumstances mentioned in paragraph 5, if not complied with, is: inadmissible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u87	Would it be okay if I did that in second term? Because now we're really gonna look at it at member level and I don't have the bill here that one-two-three at hand. When it comes to very precise matters, I also want you to have an exact answer. That's what we saw this morning. Sometimes that can help. I will return to that in the second term. I have one short afterburner of my own. It is more of a technical nature, because this bill is, as it is called, KEI proof written. We are currently considering how and when the new procedural law can enter into force. We are also discussing this with the judiciary. I am not yet in a position to clarify it precisely, but that may mean that I will submit a letter of amendment to ensure that this bill is brought into line with the applicable procedural law at the time of entry into force. So this is a conditional adjustment of the proposal which, in my view, does not touch the core, but ensures that it is technically well adapted. I will make sure that this is before the vote in the Chamber, but I just wanted to say that here so that you are not surprised by it and so that you can also assess the nature of that letter of amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'm done with my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you. With this we are done with the first term on the part of the cabinet. The amendments to documents Nos. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 18 have been judged Chamber. Does the Chamber need a second term? That's the case. Can we proceed immediately, or do you still need a suspension? No, Mr Van Gent is already shaking his head. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u89	I would like to use the second term to make a comment on the process. It has just been noted: it has been a long and careful process. I also think it is very good that all kinds of interest groups have been involved in writing the bill. That is quite understandable, of course. I think it is very good that you are also exploiting the knowledge and expertise of such organisations and that you are thereby building support for the proposal. What we are somewhat less happy about is that the appeal is then made to the Chamber. These are the literal words 'that it has been a careful process with the stakeholders involved, with a nice compromise, in which all parties have put their hands on the wine, saying 'change, torment the bill is then undesirable in our view'. I understand that appeal in itself, but, from a constitutional point of view, it is really our role and responsibility to look at that law again and, if necessary, to table amendments. So I think it is equally important to make that announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen waives his second term. The same applies to Mr Grothuizen. I call Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. I have prepared a motion which is in line with what the Minister has said, but which may be even clearer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Mass Damage Resolution Act in collective action will be reviewed five years after its entry into force;]] [[Whereas it is important to also be informed in the interim about the practical functioning of the law and whether the law actually contributes to the strengthening of the legal position of groups of injured persons and whether the law accelerates effective justice in cases of mass damage;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a sounding board of representatives of various professional interest groups and to inform the Court of the first five years after the entry into force of the law in the presentation of the budget documents about the experience of dealing with cases of mass damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34608-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u92	That's it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u93	Thank you. I call Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u94	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions, including all the questions I had put on his plate. There are actually two things I want to say. First of all, I would like to return to the way in which the Minister appreciates the amendments. I have also discussed this with Mr Van der Staaij. What I expressly do not hear is that the Minister accepts the amendments. So he really leaves it to the Chamber. I still think this is important in this debate, because, as Mr Van Gent has just said, it is ultimately our role to express our appreciation, even though all kinds of parties have interfered. To be honest, I think that we should congratulate the Minister on offering that space rather than having to fill it out altogether. That was my first point. I'll hold back before I make my second comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u95	A brief reaction. I can really understand this point from a state-law point of view, because it is the case; the Chamber is ultimately also about it. The chairman himself said something about that. However, it should not be the case that amendments tabled from a particular political party are assessed differently from those tabled from the opposition. I can remember many examples from the past of very good proposals which I myself happened to have tabled, motions or amendments, which could not count on the same kindness. Then the Minister said quite explicitly: my proposal is better and so I do not recommend it. That's actually more...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u96	Your heart cry is clear, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u97	Right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u98	Do you still want to respond to it, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u99	Well, it's a purely personal wish to Mr. Van Nispen. I can only hope that he too will get into the situation once his party is in the cabinet. I'm sure he'll have other experiences, too. But that's more jesting than content. At least it's supposed to be collegial. I come to my second comment. I would like to say a few words about the letterbox companies. I would like to hear it from the Minister very clearly. I'm sure it has something to do with my participation in the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions. Take a letterbox company that hardly contributes to an operating result, for example a pension - for example from a foreign organisation. I make it up here on the spot, because I'm not very well trained in that area in the Netherlands. This seems to me to be a legal person who has little to do with the production or service of such an organisation. Of this, I can imagine that you say: he has an insufficient connection with the Dutch legal sphere. However, I also mention a letterbox company which runs through the full capital of a large international company and which contributes substantially to the operating result of such an organisation. Surely it can't be that such a company, although it doesn't have a production company or a sales department here, is not qualified as being sufficiently close to the Dutch legal sphere? I think, of course, that the judge should check these things in the end, but I also think that the judge can derive clarity from a legislative process. I therefore call for an explicit response from the Minister on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u100	Thank you. Mr. Van der Staaij doesn't need a second-term contribution. Neither is Mr. Markuszower. Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. Let me look at the Minister, because he had an answer in preparation. Five minutes? Shorter? Two minutes, you say, and I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u101	The Minister is already ready for his second-term response. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mr. Chairman. I promised in the first term to come back to Mr Grothuizen. We took the legal text with us for a while. I think he was wondering whether the amendment was technically correct. I can answer in the affirmative. If you look at the reasons for inadmissibility in Article 5, then it's either-or-or, so it's not cumulative. One of those reasons is that shortcoming. I think that's the point where he says: if you come up with a bullshit claim, then the judge should also have the opportunity to get extra firm into that court fees. In that construct I can at least say that Mr Groothuizen has chosen the right point of reference in his amendment. The second point was made by Mr Van Dam. It's about the mailbox companies. When is it, and when isn't it? It's about the involvement in the harm-making event. A letterbox company, a subsidiary organisation, a daughter-NV or -e.g. here in the Netherlands must have played a role in the unlawful action of the organisation that is being sued. That is what the band with the Netherlands has to prove. I think that will vary on a case-by-case basis. Then the judge should also consider whether tax involvement, which is often the case with letterbox companies, is part of or has played a role in the event or situation that has caused damage to the victims. Finally, I come to Mrs Buitenweg's motion. She said, "Get a formal sounding board with representatives." I could do very well with that, in such a way that I would like to take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u103	Is there any objection to takeover? I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u105	Then we came to the end of the second term on the part of the government of the treatment of the Settlement of Mass Damage Act in collective action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-6.u106	I thank the Minister for his reply. I thank the Chamber for the input. The vote on the amendments and the law will take place next Tuesday.
