ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the report on general consultations Premature school leaving and young people from the labour market. General consultations took place on 31 October. First of all, Mr Smals has the floor. Mr Smalls spoke on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister has previously solemnly promised that the number of early school leavers would fall below 20,000. We see the opposite. The number of early school leavers is increasing again. We were on the right track, but it looks like we're letting it go. We are therefore wondering what the Minister, when she saw these disappointing figures, did to reverse the tide. There are plenty of reports and clues that something really needs to happen, so I expect her to do something with it and not like an apathetic archivist putting the investigations in a drawer. In order to push and steer the Minister in the desired direction, we will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that education is important for the development and future of young people;]] [[noting that the number of early school leavers is increasing;]] [[noting that only 40% of the MBO institutions have a policy of parental involvement in relation to the failure of learners;]] [[Whereas parental involvement is proven to be effective in preventing absenteeism and associated early school leaving;]] [[Whereas parents are responsible for their children at least until they reach the age of 18 years and may continue to be decisive in motivating their children to obtain a starting qualification;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the MBO Council, to develop policies to encourage parental involvement in order to reduce early school leaving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smals, Mr Bruins and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26695-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	I have the question as to which direction the VVD is thinking of. A while ago we saw that a colleague of Mr Smals, Mrs Tielen, tabled a motion and suggested that parents cut child allowances at the time when children had been in contact with justice. So that's about punishment. Does the VVD, for example, consider the financial punishment of parents in this motion or does the VVD have a different direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	As the motion states, 40% of the MBO institutions have parental involvement at all. I do not want to go so far as to make that a punishment at once, but let us at least start by involving parents in absenteeism and accordingly leaving early school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the general discussion on early school leaving, we talked about internship discrimination as one of the causes of that early school leaving. Unfortunately, internship discrimination remains a persistent problem. We know that in this context the Minister is working closely with her colleague, Mr Koolmees, and we also know that there is cooperation with JOB, among other things, to try to increase the willingness to report which is still low, but my concern remains that we do not always have enough vision of the scale of the problem. Should we not therefore look at how we can better monitor the progress of this effort in line with the Minister's commitment? Is the Minister prepared to go into consultation with JOB and MBO Council to see how internship discrimination can get a better place in their monitor or benchmark, which we do not think is sufficient at the moment? That was my question; I have no motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, to speak on behalf of her colleague, Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. I, too, do not have a motion but a few questions. We know that whatever funding system you set up always assumes the effect that institutions act on it. The number of early school leavers has increased. Our question here is whether there can also be a relationship with the funding system in this respect. Mr Van Meenen said in the previous debate that 20% of the funding is graduation. Of course, that can have a positive effect, because it motivates someone to get a diploma, but it might also be possible that institutions focus more on the students who are already successful. I would like to ask the Minister how she sees it. My second question concerns the number of young people who have psychological problems. I'm a social worker myself, so I talk to these kids a lot. I know it's often a problem for them to finish education. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is a relationship between that, because we also know that more and more young people are using youth care and that more and more young people are having more and more problems and that stress and burn-out but also other psychological problems are a reason for doing so. Is there a relationship between education and its institutions sufficiently capable of ensuring that these students, those young people who need extra support, can finally finish their training? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a group of young people with a starting qualification who do not come to work in the sector for which they are trained and who do not achieve financial independence;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to early school leavers, to monitor young people with initial qualifications in the labour market so that the Chamber is aware of whether they are finding suitable jobs and achieving financial independence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26695-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add one more thing. Of course, we've seen recent research. That is also the reason for this motion. As with an early school leavers, my group would like this to be a constant question for ourselves. As in the case of early school leaving, we have to regularly check whether this is actually being achieved. I would stress that even more in the light of the extended initial qualification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik. She speaks on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. During the AO we discussed among other things the extended qualification obligation to 21 years. As an instrument, this can help to counter school drop-out. This is also part of the coalition agreement. The letter now states that this bill will not come to the Chamber until the summer of 2021. Then there's been an election, so it's too late. The Minister was right to state that she is not in charge of the proceedings in the Chamber. She will also submit the bill as soon as possible. But we would like to table a motion to ensure that this period is actually dealt with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in order to prevent early school leaving, it is good that the extended qualification requirement is made possible and is therefore included in the government agreement;]] [[noting that the Minister intends to send the extended qualification requirement to the Chamber until the summer of 2021;]] [[considers that this is too late;]] [[calls on the government to send the legislative proposal extended qualification requirement to the Chamber by the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Smals. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26695-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I shall first deal with the motions that have been tabled. I shall then turn to the questions that have been asked. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion in part No. 126 by Mr Smals on parental involvement. But before I go into the motion, I would like to mention the qualification given by Mr Smals of the vsv policy. He called that the work of an apathic archivist. I'm sure I'm gonna stand back from that. This disqualifies all those RMC coordinators, all those people who work very hard in schools at municipalities to keep all those young people in school or to accompany them back to school. To be honest, I find it very disrespectful to do so, so I am quite sure that I will refrain from saying so. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 126 by Mr Smals on parental involvement. Look, I think that motion is superfluous, because schools are already working very hard on parent involvement. The LOB expertise point strengthens parental engagement, for example through knowledge sharing meetings and hand-outs. The study choice site KiesMBO also focuses on parents. Parents are granted permission to register their minor child with the bill Improvement of legal protection MBO student. Institutions are also required to inform parents of underage students about the progress of their studies. MBO schools also make it clear to the students before the start of a training course that parents are directly involved in absenteeism, study problems or imminent dropout. Learning obligations and RMC also involve parents in the guidance of young people. Parents are invited, for example, to join those conversations. I can tell you, even as a former alderman who was responsible for vsv in a large city, that this happens: these parents are really very intensively involved in it in many places. So I think the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	And with that...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u16	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u17	The motion in part No. 126 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u18	Then there is the second motion, in part No. 127, by Mr Van Meenen, on a study on job opportunities for young people with a starting qualification. This motion, too, is actually superfluous. Of course, young people with a starting qualification always have a better chance of getting a job, but Mr Van Meenen is of course right that a starting qualification is not a guarantee of success. There is indeed a group of young people with a starting qualification, especially at level 2, who have difficulties getting a job or having a sufficient level of employment to be financially independent. This is also apparent from the numerical analyses we have made. That is precisely why we have focused on this group in the approach for young people with a distance from the labour market: how can we follow this group well and guide it to a successful place on the labour market? If we are going to pursue this policy, you have received our cabinet response. Of course, we will continue to monitor whether that is successful and whether that will improve the position of these young people in the labour market. In my opinion, the cabinet in the cabinet response to the ibo Young people with a distance from the labour market has done exactly what you are trying to do. The motion is therefore superfluous and therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u19	The motion in part No. 127 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u20	Then the motion to part No. 128 by Mrs Kuik on the legislative proposal Extended qualification requirement. A motion asking for something that just can't be done, I must advise against. Questions have been asked about this before. There have also been earlier attempts by the Chamber to draw up own-initiative legislation here. Mrs Kuik should know that this is legally complex. I also have to ask the Council of State for advice. I would like to inform the Chamber by letter in spring 2020 about the outline of the bill, but I cannot table a legislative proposal if, for example, it is not back from the Council of State or if the consultations required by a legislative proposal have not taken place. It's gonna take time. You may find that annoying, but that's how it is. So the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u21	Clear. The motion in part No. 128 has been dissuaded. A brief question from Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u22	The coalition and the cabinet have of course been working for two years, so the minister has already been able to take that time. I am therefore asking for great urgency and priority, and I would ask the Minister to inform me earlier, I would say: in the first quarter already about the progress made in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u23	I would like to inform Mrs Kuik about the progress, but she is well aware that this earlier initiative has not been stranded for nothing and has never been much further. That was because there are a lot of legal hooks and eyes to this, because here a difference is made between the constitutional rights of a group of young adults and those of others. It is not easy, and you do not want me to have a bill if we are certain that it will die at the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u24	Clear. I see that Mrs Kuik still wants to interrupt, but I do not think you are getting any closer. The motion in part No. 128 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u25	Two more questions from Mrs Westerveld. Is there a relationship between the 20% graduation benefit and the policy of MBO institutions? Wouldn't they focus more on more successful and more promising students? In an earlier debate this morning, I told Mr Van Meenen that we are going to see exactly what the funding does with the right of access to the MBO. We take Mrs Westerveld's question into account. Then the question about the relationship between mental problems and vsv. That relationship is there, of course. As regards the causes of vsv and the increase in the figures, I would point out that we see a lot more young people with complex multi-problems. It's not that easy to say: they have to go back to class. In the annual report on appropriate education, we have also taken this into account. We see that the quality of appropriate education is getting better, but we still have steps to take to keep the group with a complex multi-problem in education and to provide an appropriate supply. Before the summer, the Chamber will receive a letter from me with the final evaluation of appropriate education. I shall deal with this issue as well, but this is a valid point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mrs. Van den Hul?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u27	I asked another question about better monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u28	Yeah, about better monitoring of internship discrimination. Mrs Van den Hul asks me to ask the JOB and the MBO to include this in the JOB monitor and possibly in the benchmark of the MBO. We're gonna figure out how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u30	We shall vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
