ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on inequality of opportunity in education. It's requested by DENK. A warm word of welcome to no less than two ministers. Their devotion to the good cause and to the House of Representatives is so great. Thank you for joining us. I've been hoping for a very chaotic debate all week, so I can yell "order, order" occasionally, but I don't know if I'm going to be served tonight. We can try. Box-K is going to do its best, I hear the ministers say. We have nine speakers from the Chamber. They all have three minutes to lay their eggs here. The first speaker is Mr Azarkan of the DENK Group. That group is also the applicant for this debate. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 1960 it appeared that a boy from "the environment of the liberal professions and higher employees" had a 15 times greater chance of being admitted to secondary or higher education than a peer from "the environment of non-agricultural manual workers." So even then, there was a big difference between the rich and the poor. That was then. And where are we now, almost 60 years later? Fortunately, much has been improved in terms of access to, and opportunities in, education. But accessibility has declined in recent years and opportunity inequality is increasing again. We think that is unfair and unfair. Parents with money hire commercial companies to pull their kids through the test week. The parents' wallet and training, and not always the child's brain or skills, determine to a large extent the child's level of education. As a result, many poor children with low-educated parents do not receive the education that suits them and talent for the Netherlands remains unused. The Education Council and the Education Inspectorate raise the alarm. And what does the Cabinet do? What does the government do with this devastating criticism of the Education Council and the Education Inspectorate? And does it concern these ministers when these authoritative institutions talk about "state education" and "classical status struggle"? Do these ministers also feel the pain when these authoritative institutions talk about 'increasing segregation', about 'bubbles of equal votes that pupils barely come out of'? And tears are also pouring over the cheeks of these ministers when these authoritative institutions say that the school advice of a child in grade 8 sometimes takes away that child's chances unnecessarily and unjustly? Mr. Chairman. The school advice appears to be an educational constraint. Changing levels is difficult because schools narrow the bridge periods and, for example, reject the VMBO department. And if you want to move to a higher level later, you're going to have to deal with additional entry barriers. There are therefore destructive reports from the Education Council and the Education Inspectorate. And what do the ministers do? Then, of course, you get the predictable words of disapproval: "It's regrettable, it shouldn't be, it should be investigated." Words are of no use to all those students and students; words are of no use to the Netherlands. Talks do not fill holes, but they are actions that combat the inequality of opportunity. But I do not know whether Mrs van Engelshoven, as a minister, intends to do so, because she believes that she should stay away from the educational institutions. And I wonder: isn't this the Minister of Education, not the Minister of Distance to Education? Mr. Chairman. DENK proposes the following. Let the highest school advice be guiding. So the objective Cito test is leading if it's higher and the school advice is leading if it's higher. Make it easier to change levels in schools. Bring together children of different levels in subjects such as gym, social studies and electrical engineering. Go from a one- to a two-year bridge period. An important point for us is: introduce an internship guarantee in which the educational institutions are ultimately responsible. Now poor students with a small network have a much harder time finding an internship place. And, in conclusion, cancel the antisocial loan system, because research shows that people who have little money go to college less often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	I fully agree with the latter. But you're also talking about the final test in primary education. You are absolutely right that school advice is not objective and is often very subjective. They look very much at the background of these children and think: well, he can't handle it, so let me give you a little lower advice. Then comes the final test, which either confirms it or doesn't. But when that advice goes higher, it is often not followed. Would you not agree with me, and by the way also with the VO Council, which also sent a letter about this, to reverse that, to do the final test first and then the school advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	I am aware of Mr Beertema's position on this point. Mr Beertema also knew the position of DENK. We indicate: if someone with objective criteria, in this case the Cito score, shows that he has a certain level, that is leading. And the other way around, a teacher can intervene if a child closes a Cito test. If a child is unable, for any reason, to score that low, then the teacher's advice, if that is higher, must also be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	Yeah, but that's not an answer to my question. I suggested that we reverse it: first the final test and then the advice. You'll be out of a lot of trouble. You're done with all these intimidating conversations with parents. It's all over the layers, isn't it? Those are also those lawyers in Amsterdam-Zuid. These are the worst by the way..................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	Not all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	A lot. They put pressure on the school: please, no advice for the vmbo, please don't! If we turn it around, we'll have the objective final test first and then the advice, and in that we'll have resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	The position of DENK is clear: we believe that the highest advice should be guiding, whether it is the teacher's or the Cito score. That's a little different, but that's how we see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	Clear, thank you very much. We are going to listen to Mrs van den Hul from the Labour Party. I'm starting to get a little worried that it's going to be some kind of budget debate on education and that we're going to bring in the whole education system, including the Dijsselbloem Commission, but we'll see where the ship is stranded. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The OECD says it, Unicef says it, and our education inspection also says it: the inequality of opportunity in our education is increasing. Who you are, who your parents are, what degrees they have and how big their wallet is, matters for your chances at school. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we should never accept that, because every child deserves a fair start. This inequality of opportunity in our education begins early: whether or not we go to preschool, and to which one? Unfortunately, the wallet determines for many parents the answer to that question, and not whether it would be good for their child. That is why we continue to insist on free preschool for every child. And then the primary school, where segregation increases and shadow education grows like coal, something that puts children of less wealthy parents back on track. Does the Minister agree with us that every child should be sure that it has the support it needs at school and at no extra cost? The sad thing is that it matters which school you attend, in terms of parental contribution and sometimes even in terms of facilities. Could the Minister, together with municipalities, investigate whether there is indeed an inequality of opportunity in the distribution of school facilities, such as gymnasiums and playgrounds? From the workload for teachers to the composition of classes, the differences between schools are large. This is partly due to the unintended negative effects of our current Article 23. We are therefore putting forward a proposal for an update that places equality at the heart of the issue. The next threshold is the school advice, where it matters who your parents are. Upgrading school advice may and sometimes may be possible, but in many cases this is not yet the case, especially in children with less mature parents. Does the Minister agree that the highest advice should be guiding and that, if a student has obtained a better final test score, school advice should be adjusted automatically to a higher combined school advice? Then secondary school, where segregation is also increasing and wide-ranging school communities are under increasing pressure. That is a shame, because it is precisely broad school communities that offer children the opportunity to move to a different level at a low threshold. We look forward to the announced measures to make stacking easier and are happy with the news about better flow vmbo-mbo. The next threshold is the follow-up study, where we see that students with disabilities, with a migration background or parents who have not studied themselves, are more likely to fall out. Can the Minister give an update on what is going on with her previous commitment to look at tailor-made guidance for these vulnerable students? Research has also shown that decentralised selection leads to less diversity. I am waiting, of course, for my written questions to be answered, but could the Minister perhaps say something about this threshold? Mr. Chairman. I set a lot of thresholds tonight, but there are others. Because even with the development opportunities later in a life, we see that not everyone has an equal chance. In this context, can the Minister indicate how our motion, together with D66, is going to be implemented to identify obstacles to life-long development, especially for people who are remote from the labour market, such as those who are not entitled to benefits? Because whether it is a toddler from Moerwijk or a nugger from the Schilderswijk: everyone must be sure of equal opportunities in our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you. Practically every research comes to the same conclusion: education in the Netherlands offers less and less good opportunities to children from poor families, while these children need that old uplifting ideal of education so badly. In this way we select students at a very early level. Where we have a system on paper that should enable jumping back and forth between school levels, that is a lot more complicated in practice. It was already about primary school advice when you are, for example, immigrant or growing up in poverty. Schools themselves also set thresholds. They're afraid their pretty score lists will get polluted with kids trying to chase their dreams. For example, see the reaction of Paul Rosenmöller and the VO-Council to the proposal to make flow easier. Bullshit! Failure's okay. Failure's okay. Sometimes you make a choice and then you want to make another one. I can imagine that for some of my colleagues in this Chamber. This is part of life, and it must be possible to do so in our education. But there's no turning back on your choice as expensive as college or college. If you're rich, you can make a wrong choice, otherwise you can't afford it. With the debt system of Mr Van Meenen and Jesse Klaver among others, that has become much more expensive. The results are down, too. Especially children from poor families are dropping out. Just look at the flow rates from havo to hbo when you grow up in a family where your parents have welfare benefits. It's not that crazy. When you grow up in a family where you see the disruptive effect of putting yourself in debt, you are also less likely to put yourself in debt at the age of 17 or 18. Does the Cabinet blame young people? Or do they even get it? So what are we gonna do about that now? I know what the cabinet is doing so far, and that is raising interest rates, so that debt increases even further. Isn't that totally contrary to promoting equal opportunities for all? The State of Education, like virtually any other report on equality of opportunity in education, was harsh: especially the level of education of parents determines what the children are going to do later. Opportunities are becoming hereditary. That is ridiculous and unacceptable as far as the SP is concerned, but unfortunately it is not striking. 'Cause if your parents have a good job, they're just gonna buy tutoring. What a total license of inability. This is even welcomed by parties such as, we have said it before, the CDA and the VVD. The promise of good foundational education, which is free for everyone, is gradually becoming a paper promise. What is this cabinet going to do to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	Now the weather passes: the wallet of those rich parents, the elite constantly buys tutoring lessons, there is an entire industry and that is for people without paying that fat wallet. That's bullshit, I'll show Mr. Kwint. My associate, myself, we come from families where we didn't have a dime to scratch our ass, as it was said back then. But my mom bought tutoring so I could finish those HBS. Anyone can do that, can't they? That's a matter of thinking a little bit, investing in your own future, investing in your children's future. Then what is your proposal? Should all tutoring be prohibited? Or should we go digging into that treasure chest and give everyone free tutoring? Then what is your proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	In any case, I note that in Mr Beertema's time education was something different from the time I went to school. If I needed tutoring, then a teacher said to me: boy, come by on Thursday the eighth hour, then we'll practice the names German with you. I didn't have to pay for that. That was just part of his work for that teacher, just like that it is now part of their work for teachers as far as I am concerned that they are simply helping students with an additional need for support. That's part of the school's budget. We can say all kinds of things about how sufficient that is, I think it is not at the moment, but it is not for nothing that the total expenditure on shadow education has increased fivefold over the past ten to fifteen years. You know these purchasing power cards, too. It's not because our incomes have gone down five times. It says something about the state of our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	I also had tutoring classes on Saturdays in my education career. There was nothing wrong with that either. But what's wrong with parents buying tutoring? I don't understand. They don't invest that money in a winter sports vacation or what, but they invest it in their children. In fact, anyone can, unless you're at the absolute minimum, because that's gonna be difficult. What's wrong with it? Where are you going with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	It seems total nonsense to me that anyone can just do that. If you see that there is almost 500 to 600 million in shadow education, then you don't tell me that it's easy for everyone to tap. Mr. Beertema himself mentions the example of a winter sports holiday. Well, I guess, like a winter sports vacation, a lot of people can't afford a $15-an-hour tutoring. Mr. Beertema may think differently, but I doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	Very well, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	For we are going on and on in addition to all the factors mentioned above, the parental contribution is increasing. Are you gifted, do you want bilingual education? Of course you can, but only if mom and dad rap, like only rich parents' kids would want this. What does the Minister actually think of the agreement made or, well, intentions........................................................................................................................................................... Does he think they go far enough, or does he say now, together with us and GroenLinks "let's make a law and let's do something about that parental contribution"? And finally, what can we finally charge this cabinet for? What have you achieved after this period, giving children from poor families more opportunities than they have now? Because what's happening now isn't enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	One more question from Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	Let's make a correction. I was just googling what the turnover of shadow education in the Netherlands is. Mr Kwint sometimes uses the style of exaggeration. That's true now. He was talking about 500 to 600 million. It's 74 million, according to SEO. Just before the annals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	For the historiography.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	I would like to add that, if I were Mr Rog, I would take up the Chamberpieces surrounding the AO Shadow Education. They come up with a very different assessment, so unless you think the minister can count less well than the SEO... But you'll have to find out in your own coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	And just for the people who aren't educational freaks, what is "SEO"? You also mentioned the "PO Council."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	"PO Council" is the primary education board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	What about "SEO"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	For "SEO," please refer to Mr Rog: r-o-g.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	Very good. Mr. Beertema of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr. Chairman. Those who really want to live in our country have every opportunity to achieve their ambitions. As far as access to education is concerned, the Netherlands is at the top and the Netherlands excels in excellent education for the lowest groups. The OECD report notes that more needs to be done to ensure that migrant children succeed at school and in society. Even more, we wonder. Look at the past. Whole cohorts children of Italian, Yugoslav, Surinamese, Indonesian or Vietnamese origin have found their way into education. With extra effort and hard work, they have used everything that Dutch education had to offer for emancipation and for knowledge and skills. So it's not about migrant children in general, it's mostly about Turkish and Moroccan children. That's where the problem is. There are the parents who, up to the third generation, refuse to speak Dutch at home. There the parents are in a self-chosen isolation. There are the parents who send their children with a language disadvantage of up to four years to primary school. The inequality of opportunity that is discussed here is one that parents can solve themselves by actively participating in our society, for example, by assimilating, speaking Dutch at home, reading Dutch books or watching Dutch TV. There lies the key, with the parents, to make those children, like all those children I mentioned earlier, succeed at school and in society. This debate is often about self-seeking and self-created inequality of opportunity. In this debate, colleagues want to declare Dutch society and education guilty and make migrant parents and children wantless victims of these cruel and discriminatory schools. Stop cherishing low expectations for any parents and their children. Make demands on them, hunt them down to make the best of it. cherishing low expectations is the death stroke for emancipation and education. Mr. Chairman. We will not deny that there is no inequality of opportunity at all. I am referring, of course, to the introduction of the loan system, as Mr Kwint said, which has increased the inequality of opportunity within higher education. Also the final key in the p.o. no longer in charge of determining the school advice. I'm considering, again, tabling a motion. I would just like to point out that the VO Council has already made the same recommendation; perhaps it will help. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you. Then Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr. Chairman. Dutch education is generally good, especially by our teachers, who want to give children every opportunity. But they didn't take the wind. Due to late maintenance, there is a huge shortage of teachers. Teachers have a huge workload and classes are too full. It is children who need more attention who suffer. That's what's in control of odds and odds. Parents are also asking more and more of their children, so the performance pressure starts at primary school. That is also hard to blame, because it just matters at which level a younger person flows out. But it does cause more stress in young people. The system doesn't cooperate either. All kinds of comparative studies show that the odds are high. In what way does our system differ from other countries? That's the early selection. It simply cannot be explained that students have to choose so early and switching is often difficult, although the cabinet takes a number of steps in this direction. However, it asks us to look even further at the system to make the pre-school facilities accessible to all children even before children go to school. It also calls for broad bridge classes to be able to choose at a later age. It may also require a different view of education, a relaxed society in which we give people the right to make choices that they may regret later. "The greatest teacher, failure is" says Jedi Master Yoda in the movie The Last Jedi. Of course, he's right. We learn a lot from our mistakes, but why do we keep looking at them so negatively? Why are we talking about the wrong choice of study when someone quits because the training doesn't suit him or her? Mr. Chairman. A cookie factory makes a profit by producing as many cookies as possible in a short time. However, education is about the development of people. The yield thinking of the Netherlands on the right is detrimental to good education and so we have to get rid of it. I would like to know from the ministers whether they agree with this and, if so, whether they are prepared to take further steps against the idea of profitability. I have a few more specific questions about that. Do the Ministers agree that it is not a bad thing at all that someone needs more time for training or study? Are they willing to take the incentives out of the system? I am referring, for example, to the model used by the inspection to measure results. Is it possible to obtain study returns, stays and figures from the students from this model? Do the Ministers agree that the opinion of pupils and teachers should play a greater role, including in the assessments of the inspection? Is it known how many schools have rules when it comes to the maximum number of times? Are the Ministers prepared to abolish this altogether? Do we know if the participation council is always involved in this policy? What about the policy around the broad bridge classes and the 10-14 schools? Mr. Chairman. Three minutes is, of course, far too short to mention anything that has to do with equality of opportunity, because opportunity inequality is a multi-headed monster where you cut off one head and three grow back. According to GroenLinks, however, it starts with supporting our young people in the choices they make, whatever choices they make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you. Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. Offering equal opportunities to pupils with an unequal background is a theme that is rightly addressed in the Lower House and in the coalition agreement. We see that pupils with parents from lower socio-economic classes often do less than their peers from the higher socio-economic class. Lack of language control and limited parental involvement often play a role. In addition to the responsibility of parents themselves, I would like to ask the Minister when we can expect his letter on the preparation of the announced plans to encourage parental involvement, and whether he would also like to pay particular attention to incentives in groups where parental involvement is now lower. The CDA Group would also like to hear whether the Minister has already made progress in his discussions with the field of education in order to have primary schools in possession of the outcome of the final test prior to the final opinion. This was also the subject of an agreement in the coalition agreement. And because we know that Dutch education selects early, while some students benefit from broad and extended bridge classes, the CDA would like to encourage this offer to be expanded rather than reduced, as is currently the case. How is the Minister going to make the agreement from the government agreement for a cover offer? Unequal opportunities can also play a role in transitions in education. The CDA has successfully advocated a smoother transition from MBO to HBO, which is also addressed in the Equal Opportunities Alliance. In addition, we welcomed the letter from the minister we received today on a smoother transition from vmbo to mbo and the announced thresholdless transition from mavo to havo. Finally, the CDA wishes to draw attention to the position of especially girls who want to enter the labour market with MBO 2 training, often in care, but who do not get into the labour market because they often require a minimum MBO 3 level. As they then fulfil the qualification requirement, they face financial risks if they continue to study. Can the Minister identify how many pupils are affected financially by this and how many MBO 2 students are ultimately unable to get to work on the labour market at their level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you. Then Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mr. Chairman. Origin and home situation should not affect the ability to develop yourself fully, happily and healthy at school. Education should give everyone the opportunity to participate fully in society. Unfortunately, we are far from achieving that ideal of equality of opportunity, and that is why D66 is also taking measures in this cabinet to further promote this equality of opportunity. That starts with a fair start. There is more money for pre-school education, so that children from families where no Dutch is spoken or no full bookcase, can also get read stories and have conversations. In the further school career we invest in supporting disadvantaged students. For equality of opportunity, a good teacher is important. They need time to give the best education to every child. The additional resources to reduce the workload contribute to this. The transition from primary school to secondary school is now clearly creating inequality of opportunity. D66 believes that this transition is given too much importance. That is why we are very much in favour of broad bridge classes and the 10-14 schools. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that a regional offer should be made for this. Can the Minister explain what this is about and what we can do to promote this gentle transition? The government agreement also agreed that the Minister would consult with the sector on meeting the moments of final test and final opinion. What has emerged from these talks so far? Many opportunities are lost in the transition to higher education. Students with a migration background are often first generation students and are entering a completely new world. Among other things, the Vrije Universiteit provides additional support to first-generation students, so that the transition becomes easier and the drop-out is reduced. A wonderful initiative, which I recommend to all other universities. This could help investment in higher education, including through pre-investments, which are also intended to support vulnerable groups, but also the resources resulting from the study advance. Can the Minister explain how this is laid down in the quality agreements? A clear brake on opportunities in higher education is currently unnecessary selection at the gates and binding study advice. This creates a self-selection that leaves a group unexploited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	Now I'm a little confused. Does D66 really say that the pre-investment in education, the pre-investment that the student pays for himself, because he has to borrow more and more because of the fantastic debt system of D66, is going to contribute to making education more attractive to first-generation students?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr Kwint is indeed confused, because the pre-investments do not come from the loan system. They come from the institutions. To the extent that they have been done, this also applies to the funds from the loan system, which are intended, among other things, to improve students' chances. That's right. By smaller groups, by better guidance. I know Mr Kwint doesn't want to hear it all, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	I'm standing there, so I don't really have a choice but to listen to it. Mr Van Meenen is right to say so: nothing has been done so far. There is no indication that these funds are being spent in a good way. However, it is arranged that those people among them who are the first in the history of their entire family to go to a university pay the bill and also get an interest increase, a gift from D66, on top of it. Then Mr Van Meenen cannot insist that this does something for the equality of opportunity in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	Certainly, because there is a lot of extra money going to higher education; this year that is EUR 577 million extra. If Mr Kwint had paid attention, he would have known what that amount was for. This is meant for smaller groups, for more teachers. They are also being adopted at the moment. Mr Kwint should look a little more closely at what is happening at present in colleges and universities. There is a lot of extra investment in better education. And that's good for the equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	Mr. Chairman. I therefore continue to find it unimaginable, and of course you know what my previous sentence was, which is why I am simply going on to say that a majority in this Chamber is so committed to the binding study advice. This is a complete distrust towards the student and it causes unnecessary pumping of people. D66 wants less return and more patience with students. Mr. Chairman. For D66 equal opportunities is important. A 30-member debate does not really do that. It is therefore a good thing that the Chamber will discuss this subject more specifically in the coming period, starting with a debate on the transition from education to education. To the vo, in a month. D66 also supports the ISO's call for a debate on equality of opportunity in higher education. Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	Thank you, Mr President. My voice is different from normal, but I hope you can understand me well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	Would you like me to get you a glass of whiskey?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	Cognac would do me good, too, I think, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Every parent wants the best education for his or her child. At the same time, very similar schools with a similar population give very different school advice. So it's not every school that can see the best in every kid. That's what worries me. I find that worrying because a child should be given the highest possible level of school advice for him or her. A child is entitled to that. And with that, we don't lose talent. Mr. Chairman. Over the coming months, we have a number of debates on inequality of opportunity at the different levels of education planned. In these debates, more information will be available, for example the answer to my question as to why parents themselves have invested so much more in their children's education. Every school has to offer kids opportunities. No talent should be lost, and that means that we need strong schools that give children appropriate school advice. If schools are not able to provide appropriate school advice, then we must help each of these schools to learn to give this appropriate school advice. I therefore have a question for the Minister: what research questions have you given for the research you are doing into the motivations of parents to invest more and more money in their children's school performance? Is it possible to add to these research questions the request not only to look at what parents want, but also whether a school may not have enough to offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	I was wondering if the VVD would agree with us that the lack of teachers is also involved in this inequality of opportunity in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	I think we should look at the main reason why children in primary education are not always given the school advice that suits them. And I don't know if that's because of a shortage of teachers, or because a teacher makes the wrong assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	The shortage of teachers is unfairly distributed among schools. As a result, it certainly plays a role in the inequality of opportunity in our primary education. In some schools, the shortage of teachers is more severe and more impregnant than on others. This reduces the chances of children in those schools. What does Mr Heerema think he can do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	It is true that there are great differences in the Netherlands when it comes to the number of teachers they lack. For example, in large cities there is a much greater deficit than in other regions in the Netherlands. I think it is most workable at the moment to ensure that we support the people who want to take the step from outside education to education as well as possible, so that we get as many extra teachers as possible in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	I would like to ask Mr Heerema if he agrees with GroenLinks and a number of researchers. They say that full classes also have an impact on inequality of opportunity, because children who need more attention do not always get that in a full class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	In that respect, I believe there are several signs. There are very full classes, where the type of student in a class also determines whether it is responsible for whether there is greater inequality of opportunity than in smaller classes. You can see there are full classes where it works very well. You can see that there are small classes where it works much less well. I can imagine that the more full the classroom is, the harder it is to give as much attention as possible to each individual pupil. This also has to do with the quality of the teacher: there are teachers who find it harder to teach a larger class than a smaller class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	It is quite true what Mr Heerema says. I would like to ask Mr Heerema whether he would like to take part in the debate on ideas to perhaps make those classes smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	What I'm saying is, I don't think we should go to a certain class size target. The average class size in the Netherlands is 23.1 students, according to the latest state of play in the State of Education. In my opinion, 5% of the classes in the Netherlands are greater than 32 pupils. You have to try to avoid that, but most of the classes in the Netherlands are simply sufficiently large.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	I heard Mr Heerema say at the beginning that it is undesirable that we do not make the best of all children. A colleague of mine just asked him about what he's into. That's what he thinks. One of the conclusions is that teachers in group six, seven, eight in particular do not properly assess the potential of a child. Reports also show that implicit assumptions are made. For example, someone comes from a slightly poorer environment, say, and sometimes the teacher says: well, I'm not going to take too much risk, so this is what you can handle. If that is one of the findings, what, according to the VVD, would be a solution to counter that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	I think there are several possible solutions. For example, you could check whether a number of schools or teachers have the system of critical friendship working. So how do other schools do it, which do manage well? For example, you can enter it in the pabo: how could that be assessed much better? And how do you deal with numbers you get from kids during those years? How do you convert it into a certain school advice? I don't know how that's taken care of in the pabo right now, but I imagine you could make another shot there. But I think you should look at the individual situation and the needs of the relevant school or teacher. That way you can make that stroke: how can someone do that assessment of the student's level as well as possible? 'Cause apparently something's going wrong. And it may indeed be that too much attention is paid to the student's background or home situation, and that it is said: gosh, let's estimate him a little lower so that he gets safely to a lower level. And we really need to stay away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	We should definitely stay away from that. I am pleased with the answer, especially with the first part, because I think it is indeed about the discussion about intervision between teachers, about the ability to evaluate critically how that is done by teacher. The practice is that if students or students get from home from good counseling et cetera and then get the same score that someone else gets without that guidance, teachers are inclined to give the person who has already received that guidance a higher appreciation, so a higher advice, while the other person does it on his own. So I would like to look with Mr Heerema, who just mentioned two possibilities, for an approach, for a way for the Minister to formulate this point, not only in schools, but perhaps also wider in the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	I think we should look at how individual students are doing. When determining the school advice, we should not try to compare pupils in the sense of "student A has received more or less tutoring or support from home." That school advice should really focus on the individual child, regardless of the situation behind it. This has to do with the figures a child has obtained for the Cito tests and with the development that a child has experienced in groups 6, 7 and 8. Then there is an opinion. At a time when teachers allow the home situation to be considered far too much, they need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	Thank you. The contribution of the VVD was delivered today by the sound play core. Mr Heerema was the last participant on the side of the Chamber in the first term. The directors can already reply. We are very pleased with that. I'd like to be the first to give the floor to Secretary Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for inviting me here today, just the first week after Christmas. The request for a debate on this subject took place last March, when the OECD report came out, which prompted the Chamber to request this 30-member debate. We're almost a year away by now. The report is also a year old, but the subject is, as far as we are concerned, still topical. The first speaker, who asked for the debate, did not say a word about that, as I noticed, but that aside from that, questions were also put to the House at the time. Those were parliamentary questions from Mrs Van den Hul. I see I'm talking about MPs doing other things right now, but I'm trying to answer their questions. I'm going on. Mrs Van den Hul then put questions to the House on that report in March, which gave rise to this debate. We answered those questions at the end of April. We have indicated that it is a beautiful and important research. Why? That study is supported by data from the PISA study. The PISA study is always sent to you, so you also know these studies. You know that it is the largest international comparative study on the performance of students in education systems in the world. It provides insight into the achievements of 15-year-olds in 71 countries in the area of reading, mathematics and science. In the research that was or should have been at the heart of this debate, but in the report that gave rise to this debate, I should like to put it this way. A number of aspects were examined at that time. They have looked at whether they are academically successful, at social resilience, as stated in the Dutch translation of that report, at emotional resilience and at motivation. On this latter aspect, these students, as well as students who do not have a migration background, scored very low in the Netherlands, far below the OECD level. I even believe that we have the students with the least motivation, if you're going to compare it around the world. On the other hand, they are also the happiest students, according to another study. I don't know if there's a causal link between these two things, but it's very striking. On the other three aspects, so the question of whether they are academically successful, the social resilience and emotional resilience, we actually score very well on average. You have also been able to see the percentages, either in the report or in the answer to the questions put by Mrs van den Hul. That was 42.5%, far above the OECD and above the EU average. That is something to be happy about, but that is of course no reason to sit back. That is what I am saying to Mr Azarkan, who had some qualifications that we would come up with soothing words and so forth. He had some expectations. It is, of course, a good thing if you score better than in the OECD context and in the EU context, it is a bit sad that it is then on average lower there, but we think that every opportunity we have and that we can make use of should also be used to increase these percentages, not only when it comes to pupils and children with a migration background, but simply in its generality. All children in the Netherlands deserve those opportunities. That is also the reason why this cabinet has decided to continue the commitment that the previous cabinet started, including with the Equal Opportunities Alliance. In fact, it has decided to further increase the ambitions in this area. About 28 municipalities are now affiliated. Very nice things are happening, by the way. I would advise you to take a specific look at this if you choose work visits. Our ambition is to grow to at least 50 municipalities during this cabinet period. This calendar year we are going to use in particular to make a floor impact with the municipalities that are already connected, because it can always be better. So this is being worked very hard. Whether or not they are a member of that Equal Opportunities Alliance or that they have plans to do so, of course, that doesn't always have to be done directly.We see that in almost all municipalities in the Netherlands where new municipal councils have been formed, there is also a lot of attention in college programmes for promoting equality of opportunity and combating inequality of opportunity. That is a very nice observation. So this is an issue that is very high on the agenda everywhere. We can see that this subject is very leading not only with us but also at other levels. Mr President, you were, of course, listening to all these contributions. Then there is indeed a lot of coming along. You can really go anywhere with this subject. I think that is also very good, because that means that this is also an underlying thing, and sometimes we leave it above on a lot of subjects that we talk about. When we talk about the 10-14 schools, the aspect of promoting equality of opportunity and combating inequality of opportunity lies behind it. I shall come back to that later, because questions have been asked about the state of play at those 10-14 schools. When we talk to each other about the broad bridge classes, the same thing. We have even talked about this in the context of funding. If we talk about tackling the shortage of teachers, this subject will indeed come around the corner. When we talk about school costs, the subject comes around the corner. So this is a subject that concerns us very much and that can come back to the subject matter very specifically. And that is a good thing, because the opportunities that exist must also be exploited with each other in order to further promote this equality of opportunity. In recent times, both the inspection and the Education Council have also been known to have regularly put their finger on equality of opportunity and sometimes also on the reduction of equality of opportunity. They've been doing that for years, and they've been doing that a lot, and I think that's good, too. These are warnings that we will have to take seriously with each other, even though we do not always know everything, that not every social problem is also to solve the emergence of distances between groups in our society via the band of education. This is without prejudice to the fact that you should be fully committed to what you could do through education. Now there have been many requests from the Chamber for further investigation. An investigation was published following a motion by Mr Van Meenen in June 2017. He then asked whether the Education Council could also study this further. Maybe you remember. It was in the previous cabinet period. I think that is a very interesting study. The Education Council gave a kind of preview of an in-depth study just before the turn of the year, which we are going to get this month. So there too, the thinking on this subject continues. In the Education Council opinion of June 2017, as a result of Mr Van Meenen's motion, four main reasons for increasing inequality of opportunity were identified, as this was a trend that became apparent. First of all, the Education Council has said that there are increasing obstacles to the entry and transit of secondary education. Secondly, they have said that the reduction of broad bridge classes is a problem. Thirdly, they have said that the decline in multiple school advice in Group 8 for many years is a problem. Fourthly, they have reminded me of the increase in shadow education. You also recognize a number of points that have already been mentioned here, because it is just things that, if things go well, strengthen the equality of opportunity and, if things don't go well, promote the inequality of opportunity. These are all subjects that we work hard on together. The previous cabinet has already started that. We have continued to do so in this cabinet, and we have put an extra head on it, even when it comes to the finances that have become available for these subjects. We can't just work on it from the position of The Hague. It has to happen in the country eventually. But they're working hard on it. We can see that the flow of secondary education has a great deal of attention, including from the cabinet. You saw another example of this yesterday. Yesterday we brought out that we are working on the flow of the vmbo to the MBO. But you have also received the message and the letter about the pass-through law havo-vwo. We are already working on vmbo-havo; that is another consequence of the previous cabinet period. The 10-14 schools are also included. This is being worked very hard, because if there are vulnerable transitions, students can go under, and that promotes inequality of opportunity. We want to ensure that these gaps are minimally reduced and, if possible, closed, because this is also a success factor in promoting equality of opportunity. They're working hard on it. In this respect, if Mr Azarkan's accusation were to be justified, you cannot blame us for being mere words. No, we are working on this in concrete terms, including through legislation. That will also have its effect in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	The Minister rightly mentions the highly readingable report of the Education Council and the four pillars that the Education Council believes should be strengthened in order to promote equality of opportunity in education. The Minister says: on all four points we come up with concrete measures to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	Well... You say "we're coming," but it's already running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	Okay. That last pillar is shadow education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	Okay, because I was wondering what the Cabinet is already doing on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	I'll be at shadow school in a minute. It's now about the flow and the upflow. It's very important that we do that right. The broad bridge classes are a subject that has been on the agenda in the Chamber for many years. There were concerns about the fact that that was falling. We have also discussed it with each other in the last calendar year. There are indeed passages about this in the coalition agreement. That is the right way to go about it. You know that there has been a very slight growth in the number of broad bridge classes since 2017. I've informed the Chamber about that, too. You received a letter about this in the autumn. So we're going a little bit in the right direction. It is indeed important that it is good. We also went into conversation with the vo and said that we think it is very important that those broad bridge classes are available within cycling distance. You know that 7 kilometres are taken as some sort of boundary. We think it is important that the offer remains available. So we are working on a regionally adequate and appropriate offer. A lot of things were said: what about it? The information, the data, the figures about where these bridge classes are located and where the white spots are, we have now made an audience via DUO, via a dashboard. It's open to everyone. You have also been informed about this, so I'm sure you've also paid a visit to that dashboard once. It is now necessary to work hard on these areas where these broad bridge classes are not available, or which are now missing. We have also taken your concerns seriously when discussing the new financing model for the United Kingdom. I also see Mr Rog nodding in particular, because he was a bit the foreman in the concern that if the funding model as proposed and still to be worked out were to be worked out in this way, this would be at the expense of this offer. I have promised the Chamber that if we return with specific detailed measures, I will take this issue with me and address it. So we're slowly but surely back on the right road up. We are far from there, but concrete steps are being taken. We are also doing this very transparently and I hope that this will further strengthen the upward trend. That's a lot that hopefully will be widely shared. I have informed your Chamber that there is slowly but surely again an increase in the delivery of the multiple school advice. There has been a legal ban on making agreements in the regions in order not to do so. This has certainly helped, but also the fact that there has been a strong debate in the Chamber. That is what has been done in the schools. So we are slowly but surely seeing an increase again. We are now at the level of 2012. That means it's really moving in the right direction. But this also applies: we are not going to sit back. 'Cause we're a long way from here. But we are on the right track to ensure that this is further strengthened. You can read all that back in a letter I sent you on 29 November. Then there's shadow education. I look back at a discussion with you not so long ago, in which we discussed it very extensively. We also agreed on a number of things back then. Mr Heerema also asks: we need some more information to put our finger on it. I have promised the Chamber that, when the task for the investigation is completed, I will submit it, and it has been hard worked on, so that you can have your eye on it for a while. If you think there are still some things missing, we are of course open to seeing if that can also be inserted. You'll get it this month. Next week or the week after, but it comes as soon as possible. We're almost done. I'll send it to you. Then I hope you will inform me very quickly about your views on this matter. Then we can set that in motion. It is true that there are a lot of images around this shadow education and the discussion we are having about it. So it's important to have it a little sharper, even when it comes to the motives that parents have to do this. We also see a number of side effects of that shadow education that we are also concerned about. I have never put that under any of my seats or benches, and I also say that to Mr Kwint. So it is very important that we follow closely what is happening here and, wherever possible, do not shrivel, if it is necessary, to intervene in a targeted way. There's one thing I have to say about that. We can never just prevent parents from doing something for their child, if that is their own choice. We cannot prevent them, for example, from getting some extra support for their child, if they want it, for which they pay something. If the reason is that the offer in the school is insufficient and that the school does not meet what we might actually expect from a school, then of course we have a different discussion with each other. It's important that this gets on the table. This includes the questions that have been asked about school costs. Mr Kwint asked me: what do you think? The PO Council has made a statement and so has the VO Council. I sent you answers to your parliamentary questions yesterday. I replied to all that. If you have any questions about that, I'd be happy to hear them. However, I have given you detailed answers to the questions you have asked, including those raised. Perhaps a brief summary: I think it is very significant that the Councils have now spoken out. Klip-and-ready when it comes to the PO Council. I say right away that the VO-Council has created some room to do things differently on a number of subjects. I tell you in all honesty that I am not so convinced of that. I have indicated in the answers to your parliamentary questions, and I believe that Mrs Westerveld, too, has done it together, and that I am still talking to them. I think it is fair to hear an answer from them in an official administrative consultation to: what were your reasons for leaving these categories out? I think about the laptops and bilingual education. I think there was something else...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	The travels abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	The travels abroad? Well, I'm not even sure. Anyway, it doesn't matter. There are a few things that have been left out, and I would like to discuss them. I am really not convinced yet, and I will also inform you as soon as possible about my final position on this matter. But don't make small what is happening right now! A little further away from the category that is now outside, we are really committed to what we have always said is the norm. A contribution may be requested, but that contribution is voluntary. At a time when this contribution is being imposed, it can indeed lead to inequality, so that pupils of parents with a smaller scholarship cannot benefit from it. That doesn't promote the equality of opportunity that we have with each other. So we have not yet reached a decision on this, but that is my position on what has come back. The PO Council goes beyond the VO Council and we will therefore have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	I believe that I am a little less impressed than the Minister of the meaningful steps taken by the Councils, especially since they have been taking these steps for 20 years. Since 1995, there has been a discussion on the level of the parental contribution. There is then political indignation here and the schools respond by saying that children can never be left behind unless the rest of the class goes on a school trip. And a year later it's time again! Also in response to questions from me and Mrs Westerveld, the Minister said: I agree with you that there should be a law at the time when the PO Council and the VO Council are not taking sufficient steps. I'm paraphrasing a little bit. If I do that wrongly too sharp, I'm sure the Minister will correct me. Does that also mean that you share the opinion of the SP and GroenLinks that it is time for a law if the conversation you are going to have with the VO Council does not have the desired outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	I'm just gonna talk to the VO board about this. When it comes to the PO Council, I don't think you should narrow it down. Of course there has been a lot of talk about it, but this time there is just a clear-cut statement from the council. At an official general assembly of Members, there was a proposal in which this was agreed with each other. They said that's how we're gonna do it. This also meets exactly what you have always said: a parent's contribution may be requested, but it is voluntary and it should never exclude pupils. That's what they agreed on. If we get all kinds of examples in the next few weeks, then... Well, the Christmas dinners have just been, but there will be something else: the carnival parade or I know what. If students are kept outside, then we can also keep them very clearly to that agreement. That's one. I have just said about the VO Council that I have reasonable doubts as to whether this is the right statement. They go a long way, but there is still some in brackets. Just give me a minute to talk to them about that. I'll come back to you after that. I know you're working on something, too; I believe a law. I don't know what's going on, but it'll come along sometime. I'm going to have to give my opinion on that, too. Well, who knows, we'll meet the moment I have my information and you're ready to put it in the Chamber. Then I will sit down as an advisor; that will undoubtedly be asked. That seems to me to be a great honour and then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	Of course, we are very much looking forward to that. The Minister says: there have really been significant steps taken at the VO Council. I just don't agree with him. When it comes to excursions, it is something that is not now enshrined in the law. That is true: schools are allowed to refuse children if the parents have not paid. We find that undesirable, but the law allows it. When it comes to teaching materials, schools should not do that at all. At the moment when a school requires students to learn from a tablet, you should be able to make that tablet available as parents decide not to purchase it themselves. So the reservation made by the VO Council is a reservation which, at least in my reading, is contrary to the law. Is the Minister sharing that lecture, or am I missing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	I think I've been very clear. I'm not convinced of what they did there, and I want to talk to them. In particular, when it comes to the categories that they are now excluding, I have doubts as to whether this is the way to do it. I'm just gonna talk to them. I hope you'll give me some time to have that conversation. I do it in an orderly way with them. I will inform you about this and then we will continue to discuss it with each other. My picture is not that those school trips and excursions are in the category they want to exclude. I'm gonna take a closer look at that. Mrs Westerveld suggested this, but I think it is very much about laptops and tablets and the cost of additional educational programmes such as bilingual education. I think that's what they put in brackets. As soon as possible after I have had the consultation, and that will really happen in the coming weeks, I will come back to you. Perhaps you could tell me in your term when you think you're going to come up with your law. Then we'll know a little bit about each other. I think the Council of State is advising now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	Don't keep us in suspense any longer, Mr. Kwint!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	I can say with confidence that the Council of State has already written its opinion on Christmas holidays. That'll be done in a minute. I think we can talk about that before the summer. But I had a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	Yeah, but you've been twice, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	In my view, the reservation made by the VO Council is contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	Voluntary is voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	I think that is the creed that applies to this. If something is not voluntary again, then it is indeed at odds with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You gave me the floor, but I've always learned not to talk until someone else has finished talking. Sorry about that. A question to the Minister about that advice. I have read that well in that letter of 29 November. There are very good principles in that, namely that tackling inequality of opportunity is an important spearhead for this cabinet. However, it merely states that further research is being carried out and that the results of this should come in sometime at the beginning of 2019. I am so curious to see what else the Minister needs to really take action. We see that municipalities such as The Hague have already addressed this in a broad approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	Mr. Chairman. I will just finish the subject of school fees and then, indeed, proceed with the advice. Then I shall return to your question, Mr. Azarkan. When it comes to school costs, you know that we also have that school cost monitor every time, in which we look very widely at what costs are being incurred now and on which it is stuck. This gives a very up-to-date and representative picture of the level of school costs in the different sectors, for which parents make these costs and how schools deal with them. That is very useful information, I say to Mr Kwint, among others, also to use in the further debates we are going to have here in this calendar year. We are both looking forward to it. In March there will be an update again, so in March we know exactly what the latest state of affairs is. Then we'll get that involved. Mr. Chairman. Then a lot of questions have been asked about the school advice, the under-advisation, the relationship between final advice and final test. Those are very legitimate questions. Indeed, we have sent a letter or I have sent a letter, 29 November, in which I have already given you the necessary information. In particular, the report which gave rise to this debate gives the impression that pupils with a migration background are under-advised. I can tell you that a great deal of research has already been done, at least in the Dutch situation, which shows that this is not the case when it comes to this very specific group. Sometimes they get a little less advice, but that also sometimes has to do with the possibilities that exist. So in that respect, we can say that... It's not just one little investigation that points this out, it's at least three, four, five. You have been informed of this. But the picture is still very persistent, especially among the people who belong to that group, that this is happening in practice. That is why we have asked the Knowledge Platform Integration & Society to look into this again. Then you can say "yes, there you are going to investigate again," but I think it is really very important that we know exactly about these subjects. Because we can now very quickly put these people aside and say "you know, look at that research and research; it is not true," but that image remains very persistent. So we're still looking at that a little bit further. I think that is fair enough, and I am also genuinely interested in the information that this provides when it comes to under-advisation. We do see what it is about advice in relation to final tests, that final tests can perform a very useful function as second independent given, so to speak. In the case of under-advisation, we do see that I have also informed you about the influence of teacher expectations on school advice. This has been demonstrated, among other things, by research carried out by the inspection itself, but I have also informed you that we ourselves have recently carried out a more detailed investigation of this matter because it was very striking. If a teacher thinks that a particular child from a particular environment, knowing the environment, maybe it has parents who haven't really had the opportunity to follow a lot of study or who are very practically trained and not very theoretical... You will notice my sincere attempt to avoid certain words here, at the request of the Chamber. Rightly so, I guess. So if there is an image of the environment from which the child comes out, if you are not careful very quickly that doesn't always happen out of evil intentions can be projected onto the child. This can be at the expense of the child's development. Of course, that's not something we find very pleasant. So you can see that there are sometimes expectations and those expectations are low if parents have only a limited education. If there's a good test, it can adjust it a little bit. That could have an impact on that, too. Anyway, we also know what it sometimes provokes when you only see a test as the most important thing. I don't want to provoke that discussion. Parents, especially parents who have a bit more in their wallet, can invest extra in that to make sure that the test gets higher. That doesn't solve everything either. So we can see that the expectations of a student's teachers, looking at the environment from which the student comes, can sometimes be negative, and perhaps some may turn the other way, and that may also be disappointing. We also see that I have reported to you that sometimes it matters by region how advice is advised. That has led us to examine that further. Mr. Azarkan, that's really not to put things away for a while, but also out of a sincere curiosity about what's happening. We want to do justice to the people there, the people who give those advice, and we want to do justice to those children. That is why we have said that we really want to look into it further, to see what is happening with these expectations and the influence of the region. I promised you that before the summer we will have the final evaluation of the Primary Education Final Review Act, the law that decided that school advice would be leading. Then I want to have that information to face that and see what wisdom is then to promote a climate in the schools at the teachers, at the school leaders, and also at the parents, in which children are actually done right and they get advice that is just tailor-made, that if you just really have an opportunity to develop, maybe more than your parents, that opportunity gets and that your parents aren't being looked at, which might close certain doors for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	I would like to ask the Minister whether he would also take into account in that study that there are often implicit, often well-meant assumptions among teachers. Can that part be taken, too? We have recently carried out a study of this and students themselves report it. They say that teachers sometimes have certain assumptions from other pupils, while they are not based on objective criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	So that's exactly what we're gonna do here. The inspection itself is also working with schools to discuss this with them. How do you look? How do you judge? So it's not like we're doing nothing now, along the way and while this investigation is going on. So it's already being actively worked on. I can see for myself that education itself sees this as an issue that needs to be addressed. So this is really high-ranking. I think it is very important that when we talk about this final evaluation, we also have that information with each other. I will share that information with the Chamber as soon as possible. Then we can draw conclusions with each other and also see what wisdom is to prevent such situations from arising. Because of course it is quite annoying when you get an appreciation of your ability that is not based on what you really have in your home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	I am a little shocked by such a phrase in which the Minister says that he is going to 'promot an environment'. I'm thinking, pffft.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	Yes, the word "climate" is difficult for you, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	Yeah, that's hard for us anyway, but you're doing a lot of "climate control" anyway. You'd better stop doing that, I'd like to give you that. But why don't we just do it simple? Turn around the order of advice and final test. Then I don't want to lay down a hierarchy and say what's leading. I don't care about that school advice, but if you get that test first, at least you have a clear instrument in your hands, to the parents, to the student, to yourself as a teacher, to the manager of your school. Then you can base your advice on that. It may still be very different, but can't we think of something? Isn't that much simpler than "creating a climate in which" and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mr Beertema is very consistent in what he says here, because he has indeed said this many times. I would almost say that you are trying to create a climate where we will eventually grow together. I shall come back to that last point very briefly. I say this very consciously because we must also be careful that we think that, for example, if we start to lay down everything in regulations and in laws, that practice will work in the same way. Thousands of teachers work and there are thousands of students. It's very important that we just help these people when they're facing these kinds of important moments. These are important moments in a child's life! Which exit am I taking? Where am I going? It is very important that they are helped in this, that they have good information, that they have also developed the good skills. That's what I mean by "creating a climate." 'Cause this isn't just gonna fly in. In a school, this should be just another topic. It shouldn't be "the teacher of the 8th grade" who's gonna decide this for a while. No, you just have to find that very important in a school with each other. That the teacher in the eighth grade has to do it, everyone understands, but it's something about the whole school. You deliver your students! They went to that school for years! It just needs to be done right. And after that, it's always waiting to see if things will work out in the end. You know that we are also following this; we discussed this with each other last year. You know that we also want to learn from the information about what happens to those students when we let them go. We're also trying to try to hold those students for a little longer. I'm referring to the 10-14 schools. This postpones the time of choice. That is important because many studies also show that if that moment of choice is a bit later, that can be helpful for the children in particular who are getting slower, children I always recognise very much in. This can also be helpful in promoting equality of opportunity and combating inequality of opportunity. So we are working on this in many areas and there is no contradiction. I have yet to go into your question about this order. It is a question that has also been asked by others. What is the order of final advice and final test, and can we bring that together? That is what we have agreed on with each other. In any case, I informed the Chamber of how we are doing this, also in the light of what is in the coalition agreement. These talks are still ongoing, are being conducted widely, but are now being concluded slowly but surely. As soon as I come to the final evaluation, I will also pass on the impact to you. In fact, you say: if there is a new round with new opportunities, then give clarity, whatever it is. That is what we are going to do on this point. So we'll just take that with us in the final evaluation. I'd say new rounds, new odds. Perhaps we will continue in the same way, but that will ultimately have to be demonstrated by the results of what I was instructed to do under the coalition agreement, in order to collect their views from the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	This is exactly why nothing ever happens in the Netherlands of education. That whole polder needs to talk. I hear again about investigations, intentions, an evaluation, a final evaluation, and then there will be a next round. You know, this is never gonna work out. You know as well as I do that the teachers often have this conflict: what am I supposed to do with this student? That teacher has all these thoughts for the best of his intentions. It may well lie awake, I know that from the question of what to do with it. We also take the teachers out of that uncertainty with the very simple intervention to reverse order. I don't understand why that's so hard. We take away a huge piece of inequality of opportunity that is now there, we give those teachers in their difficult choice much more certainty to base their advice on and all those parents have much less reason to come to that school with all kinds of means of printing, "he or she will not go to vmbo" and so on. Then we've solved a lot of things in one fell swoop. Why do you always need that whole education county to tune all that up? You're politically responsible. Just say, we're gonna turn it around. Then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	If there is one thing that education hates very much, then it is that politics decides something: in this case there will be a Final Review Act p.o. where choices are made and the shift is reversed before the simply agreed final evaluation takes place. You say you're helping the teacher with it. So you must have heard that from the teachers themselves. What are we doing? We're gonna talk to them a lot, too. That can't just be a random sample: we're going to talk to ten people here and there in the country. No, we do that in a very good way and then we just take it with us at the moments we have agreed on and which we have also said to education: that is how we are going to do it in time. Then we're gonna make the choices together. That has nothing to do with having fun in polders. That is not always pleasant at all, but it is necessary at the time when you may also make other choices. In fact, you are proposing a different choice. It is your right to do so, and you have arguments for it, but there are people who want something else and have arguments for it. We must take this polder, in this case education, seriously: ownership of teachers, of education, they must be involved in the choices we make. They've been yelling about it. We're giving them space now, too. Of course, it should not last longer than is necessary, but this is, in my opinion, reasonably clear in time. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the 10-14 education. I have a few more questions that I will deal with now. I informed you about the state of affairs in November with a letter, in which I also sent a research report. 'Pilots', I believe, is the word that goes with it, but there are a number of schools in the country where 10-14 education is employed. I myself spent the first week of the new year at a school where 10-14 was taught. Extremely exciting to see what's going on there. You've received an initial interim report. There are now about twelve schools active in the Netherlands. I have been asked: how do we proceed with that? I sent you that mid-term report with an accompanying letter. I have indicated to you that I will return to you before the summer on this important subject, where we will also give a more detailed analysis of the problems raised by this mid-term review. Those bottlenecks are gonna blow up in different directions. Some are really a bit more generic, but I'll go into that. I have also indicated to you, but you know that the pilots as they are now running and will also be supported by the government agreement will be completed by the end of 2020. Then, of course, we will think in good time and present to you how we see the further steps on the basis of the results. To reassure you, on 13 February we will be discussing the transition between Poland and Yugoslavia in general. It says, if it's okay, but you're inviting me to the 10-14 education on the convocation you brought out. You have urged us to come. In life and well-being we will be there. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the desirability of staying. In a part like this we have always found the freedom of schools to shape their education according to the educational and also didactic vision they have with regard to that aspect. I do see more and more schools in the country where they are still being banned. That sounds very threatening, but I mean schools where people think it would be better to mentor these students in a different way. You know that I do not want to enter this autonomy of schools, but we are of course following that. It is clear that schools are always obliged to express their views on this subject in their school plan. The co-determination council also has an influence on this and can discuss it. Of course, we try to prevent students from double or remain seated in all kinds of ways. As you know, we are also making funds available for this in the context of summer schools and so on. Schools can at least apply for funding for this. These summer schools, which I do not think have been adopted in the last budget debate, but in the budget debate for which an amendment by Mr Rog has been adopted, do have a great deal of effect. We see that, if these summer schools are put in place for students who are likely to sit or double, some 80% can still go on in the end. Those are pretty high percentages. So that's very effective. If students who are in the danger zone in their development, receive some specific attention, sometimes even in time, they can do so with a summer school; in schools, of course, extra time can be given to these students, which is very beneficial to the results they achieve. It's very nice to know that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	I understand that, too. It's also good that there are summer schools. At the same time, my plea was directed precisely to point out that we should not be so sorry if a student stays for a year. Sometimes, for whatever reason, that's just better. That is why I have also raised the question of whether, in the current system, we would not be able to adapt a number of incentives, such as the educational results model of the inspection. Because now schools often have the impression, or at least is being sent, that pupils should remain as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	I understand the question, but I do hesitate on a subject like this. 'Cause the minute you remove that stimulus, what kind of doors do you open? You take away that incentive when you say from the education outcomes model of the vo: we don't look at that anymore, that doesn't count anymore. I don't mind that schools try to "prevent that." I think it is indeed good to say out loud that there can be just situations where it is even better for the student in question to repeat a grade. Still, a little bit as an experienced expert and with some restraint I have to say that it happened once in my school career. I was such a diesel, so it took me a while to get started. If you stay seated and do the courses you're good at, if you're stuck for another year, then that can also work very badly for the motivation that is not very high among Dutch students. So I really like the fact that schools now have a lot more eye for it: if there are courses you're good at, you can go through, there are courses you're not good at, then we'll pay extra attention to that. Those are the schools where the sitting is slowly but surely completely gone. But in the context of promoting equality of opportunity and combating inequality of opportunity, I sincerely wonder if the students have really been helped to remove that stimulus altogether, which in fact opens the doors to it. So I'm not in favour of that, although I do understand the underlying motivation you have to ask this question. That is, of course, the same discussion we are having about, for example, the upward pressure. You can see that sometimes there can be a lot of pressure on children that are undesirable. I sincerely hope that there are wise people around these children. To begin with, those who take care of them as parents or parents, in addition to the people who take responsibility for them in the school and who also try to guide them well, looking at the child. That can sometimes mean that you let a child repeat for a year, while you pull others over the line with some extra interventions to keep their development going and the motivation I hope to keep up and let those children come to their senses with the talents they have, because they have every child.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	I think there's an automatic stimulus. Students generally want to pass on and schools of course also prefer that all pupils pass on. I therefore wonder whether there is no need for an additional incentive in the educational outcomes model of the inspection. I understand from the Minister that he has some hesitation. I understand that, but would the Minister like to have a talk with the inspection to see if we can't change that educational outcomes model, two out of four of the main issues that are being addressed about sitting down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	As soon as I speak to the Education Inspectorate again on the issue of equality of opportunity and its promotion, I am quite prepared to take that with me. In the letter I sent you yesterday, I also announced that I would come back to you a little more in detail on this subject, also to keep it warm, I would say. After all, this is really very important. We shouldn't talk about it once a year. This is a subject that really requires permanent attention from us. I'll see if I can take this. Otherwise, it's gonna be a little later, if those conversations take a while. I'll take it, but you can see my hesitations. If your assumption is true that a student really wants to move forward and that a school does everything in its power to promote it, then it is also questionable whether it really is a problem. Then there may be a few left where it doesn't work out, but then that's just very clear. But then the stake is that we try to guide them further in the school career. We try to guide them according to the rhythm of the year, without too many stops, which can sometimes be very disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	Then it turns out that with a year of redoing, you can still become Minister for Education. About that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	Yeah, it's a comforting thought, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	...that offers a lot of possibilities. I don't know if it's a comforting thought for kids at home. I'll leave that to those kids. The Minister specifically mentioned the summer schools to stop sitting. As far as I am concerned, that is quite right. These are incredibly important initiatives that can not only contribute to children's survival, but also contribute to the fact that some knowledge will not fail if they do not go to school for eight or seven weeks. Now the problem is that next year's money for those summer schools is just going to go to the big pile. It's going to the lumpsum. It's spread over all kinds of schools. That subsidy scheme is in danger of disappearing. In view of the success of these summer schools, is the Minister prepared to reconsider that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	I'm not getting ahead of that right now. We have just discussed the budget for this calendar year. It is clear that I believe that schools themselves should also use the resources they receive to offer such initiatives if this is necessary for their school population. We see on the basis of the results that this can work very well. But let's have the discussion later on about what we're going to do next year and how we're going to deal with the resources. Then hopefully my final investigation into the funding will also be on the table. Then we're going to go very broad on p.o. And talk. That is an investigation that will take a while, but that will give us a lot of ground to talk about. Then we'll take that kind of stuff with us. So I'm not giving you a clasp-and-ready answer right now. This is a subject that we will discuss further: how will the money that is available be used? Do we have to label everything because otherwise we're afraid it's not gonna happen? That is, of course, a subject that we will talk about widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	If an answer becomes generic enough, it is always a subject that we are going to discuss very often in committee. You yourself are satisfied with the summer schools. I think there is broad support for it. There was also an amendment by Mr Rog for a reason. There is broad support in the Chamber for these summer schools. Everyone sees the added value of this initiative. I believe that every educational spokesperson has been concerned in recent years, at a specific point, that when you add money to the lump sum, it is in great hope and you can no longer say with certainty that these initiatives will be preserved. If we are all aware of the importance of these summer schools, it is much easier to give the assurance that we are not going to delete them and to give the money to schools that have specific plans for summer schools instead of saying that we are still talking about them in September or October. Moreover, that is very late for those schools, if they know a few months before whether or not they are getting that money. Then we'd better solve that problem now. Then we offer schools security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	Now Mr Kwint is standing here on this subject. I appreciate his passion. He is right to say that there is wide interest in this subject in the Chamber. That was also apparent when Mr Rog's amendment was granted a majority. I want to prevent us from gathering a huge list of topics later, because there are other things. You're here for this now. Once again, I do not deny the importance of this subject, but there are other issues that others also attach great importance to. Soon we will have such a list, but we have also agreed that we will have a very detailed discussion on funding in the coming year. Then let's do it at those moments. I do not want to get rid of this subject, although I would like to do so, but I know that you will be stalking me in a very professional way, because that is part of your work, in order to make it clear that we must pay attention to this. This may be a bit of a procedural answer, but it is not meant to get rid of the subject, because it will come back automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	Also procedurally, is the Minister already finishing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered most of the questions. I would just like to say a few words about two things. There was an announcement that something should happen to Article 23 in the context of equality of opportunity. We can fill a whole evening with that, and perhaps even more than one evening, because it is an extremely interesting subject. You also know my motivation for that. Let me say this: when we look at what is happening in practice in the Netherlands and the choices that parents make, you can see that they look very closely at quality and whether schools can deliver quality, even when it comes to school choices. The question is legitimate whether the amendment of Article 23 of the Treaty of Rome, which has happened in the past, is going to take quite a while, because, as you know, two readings are needed to make a real contribution to the subject that you all have for us: promoting equality of opportunity and combating inequality of opportunity. The contributions in the Chamber also show that everyone is passionate about this subject, because we have noticed that this is about something. But, of course, we are waiting for what the Labour Party will come up with. It is up to you, if you want to put your energy into that, then that is your right and we are curious about the results. We will certainly have to discuss the issue of segregation, which has also been raised by the Education Council, because the Education Council is now coming to a further conclusion in January. That is also an aspect on which the inspection has put its finger. We will also have to talk to each other on this subject in terms of what is possible. What can be done through the bandwidth of education? If we respect that parents have freedom and space to make choices for their children, then we may sometimes have to grittyly accept that they pass a certain school because they think it is better for their child to go to another school. Whether we like it or not is another story, but that is a reality that sometimes happens. What we can do, however, is to help schools that may not be considered attractive, so that they are attractive. We also know that schools in very difficult neighbourhoods, with a very difficult population, sometimes deliver real world performance. Maybe I should leave out the word "sometimes"; that happens in a lot of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	Following the references to the PvdA-plans, I come to a question about learning law. In the coalition agreement, it has been agreed for a reason that the right of learning should be legally anchored. That's what's being investigated. My question to the Minister is whether he can inform us of the state of play. That does not have to be done now; that can also be done in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	Sure. That's what we're picking up. You have also understood from us that we are going to do this cabinet period. The preparations are therefore already being made for this. I am not exactly in my head right now when we will inform the Chamber about this. Maybe I can come back to that in the second term. But that is indeed an agreement that we have made and which we are also implementing. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, that was the answer to the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	Thank you. Mrs Van den Hul has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	I still miss an answer to my question about facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	In fact, we are going to have an extensive discussion on our proposals on Article 23, but I had asked a question about the unequal distribution of provisions. We are getting signals that this inequality of opportunity even occurs at that level: schools with and without a gym, schools with and without fancy playgrounds with playgrounds. I'm just going to make it very, very concrete. There's a report in the press about that, too. Is the Minister prepared to have a discussion with municipalities, which are primarily concerned with this, to see if this is indeed the case? What about the distribution of facilities between schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	Mrs van den Hul is right to say that the municipalities are responsible for this. I must tell you that these signals are not known to us. You say something about that has been published in the press. Let's just agree that you will make sure that those signals are known to us as well. Then we'll take a look at that, too. As you know, we give municipalities and schools additional resources precisely to further combat inequality of opportunity in the context of vve and so on. 1 January was the moment when the funds went to the municipalities. On 1 August of this calendar year they go to the schools. So the new distribution is just gonna run. If you inform me of the signals you have received, we will, of course, look into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	Yes, we will. Indeed, I am not referring so much to facilities such as vve. These are, in particular, real physical facilities such as gymnasiums. I hope that the Minister agrees with us that it is very important for children who have parents who may not be able to pay for sports lessons so easily that they have the same facilities at school, so that they can at least move there sufficiently. That is actually our starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	My commitment stands. I think it is important that, if you have a local group there, you also ensure that the debate is held there. As you know, I am always very much watching over the fact that we are going to do things here that have to take place in other places. We must take this division of responsibility seriously. This is without prejudice to the fact that it has a broader appearance and that it is good to get these signals with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	I had asked whether the co-determination council would always discuss the policy of staying in office. That's what the law says, but does it happen in practice? I imagine the Minister doesn't remember these kinds of facts. As far as I am concerned, a later answer can therefore also be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	It is very difficult, I think, to know that of all the schools in detail on every subject that we agree should be discussed in the school. I assume that in the schools there will be a discussion on the issues which also fall within the remit of the co-determination council, that is to say on this issue too. I just mentioned something about school plans that should include things. Now, if you're gonna ask me to check with all the schools... I'll see if that information is available, but I wonder. But if I have to ask all the schools about that, then we are going to put a burden on those schools again, which I am wondering whether it makes any sense. I think it's more important that we just say to the schools in general: take your job seriously. We are very focused on supporting these participation councils and putting them in a position where they take their responsibilities, which are great, seriously. This concerns not only this subject, but many, and there will be additional issues that I will inform you about in the coming period. I would therefore like to leave it at that. I'm gonna check it out, but I'm not gonna go through all the schools separately again. I am not saying that because we do not want to make this effort, but because of the workload and workload; we also want the schools to function a little reasonably.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	I understand. My question was mostly whether we might know this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	Good. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Minister Van Engelshoven. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	Thank you, Mr President. The reason for this debate tonight was the OECD report, but there are, of course, many other reports on equality of opportunity in education. And if all these reports teach us one thing, it is that we must continue to pay attention to equal opportunities in education. In fact, all these reports call for particular attention: continue to pay attention to equal opportunities and to the emancipatory role of education. This must be done across the board of education. I will concentrate on MBO and higher education tonight. Mr Slob has already said enough about the other area. We see that equal opportunities is always a long-term issue. Creating equal opportunities is never finished either. We must be aware of this. Especially in MBO, and especially in HBO and in vocational education, we see the incredibly beautiful emancipatory meaning that education can have. And that is precisely why I feel it is my responsibility to continue to pay attention to this function and to equal opportunities. "Equal Opportunities" basically means that background and origin should not affect students' study success, the chance you have to successfully finish your studies and the opportunities you then have on the labour market. Study success is about giving young people the space to discover and develop their talents. And we must also recognise that some need more time to do so, and that some need more support for this. A number of you, Mrs Westerveld and Mr Van Meenen, also pointed out that too much emphasis on return could stand in the way of the attention paid to the success of the individual student who sometimes needs more space or support. I have also pointed this out myself in previous debates: too much attention is being paid to the issue of return alone, which hinders the success of studies and equal opportunities. For some groups, the idea that students should only obtain a diploma as soon as possible may mean that they no longer enter higher education or that they are unnecessary and premature. We shouldn't want that with each other. In the MBO we saw that too much focus on the return resulted in institutions no longer allowing students after six years because these students simply did not count in the funding, or that students were wrongly refused. In higher education you saw this in the developments surrounding the binding study advice. We have also discussed this in detail earlier this year. For these reasons, I have now adapted the funding in the MBO, by abolishing the so-called 'cascade payment', which set a limit to the period of funding of students. And in the MBO the right of admission is now also well regulated. Stacking becomes a promising route again, and that is important. I will continue to discuss the binding study advice with colleges and universities. And yes, there is a lot of loosening in that respect, but I can also tell from those institutions that people are giving some thought to what is happening to that student who receives a negative binding study advice. People think, "Are we doing the right thing?" I will continue to discuss this with them, and I will report to your Chamber on that. Promoting equal opportunities requires broad commitment along different lines. In the governance agreement I concluded with the MBO last year, it was agreed that equal opportunities will be one of the three national priorities in the multi-annual quality agreements. I will also appeal to institutions, as the Scheffer Committee also assesses them at their level of ambition when it comes to these plans and their progress. Providing equal opportunities in the MBO also means equal opportunities for a good flow to the labour market. Many young people in entry or, for example, in MBO-2 training need guidance for contact with employers. Citizenship education and additional guidance from the MBO school, for example in the field of vocational training, can be very helpful. This school year, I say especially to Mr Kwint, has started a pilot to accompany students, especially at MBO-2 level, after obtaining their diploma for two more years at their start on the labour market. Mr Kwint and Mr Özdil have tabled a motion (34775-VIII, No. 83), which was adopted. We'll do that, too. In that he had a right point: some students ask for more guidance. Employers, of course, also have an important role to play in providing equal opportunities, for example through an inclusive staff policy or in offering an internship. Earlier, I reported to you about our approach to internship discrimination. Of course, that cannot be the case. We have made agreements with employers and the MBO about, for example, selecting courses without prejudice for learning companies. e-modules are being developed, and students and employers can also get acquainted with each other through short-term company visits. With higher education, I am also working on improving regional cooperation to promote the flow from MBO to HBO and from secondary education to higher education, because we see that it often goes wrong in transitions. It is not for nothing that we have reported to you today on the proposal to make the transitions between VMBO and MBO more flexible. But there are also other places where we must of course pay attention to this transition, because there are often too many students who fall out of it. Over the next four years, we still have 32 million available to invest in better transitions. It is also one of the spearheads in the sectoral agreement with the Association of Colleges. Soon your Chamber will receive three legislative proposals on equal opportunities. I am looking at Mrs van den Hul in particular, who has asked for this in previous debates, for a bill to set up an equal opportunities fund for every MBO institution for students who cannot go to school, for example because they are ill, pregnant or on a student council. There is a fund available at each MBO institution. I just mentioned all the bill on ongoing learning lines, which went into internet consultation today. The bill Language and accessibility in higher education will soon be published, which will also cover limitations of the numerus fixus, for example. That, too, gives more students an equal chance. In the coming months, therefore, we will be talking very often about equality of opportunity. That is also good, because it is really a subject that we need to be constantly alert to. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to a number of specific questions. To be honest, I was not surprised that some of you mentioned the study advance and equal opportunities; it is quite obvious to link that up. Before going into the questions, I would actually like to say to students: do you realize that the introduction of the study advance has greatly increased the supplementary grant? This gives students from families with a narrow scholarship extra chance. I would also like to say to them: studying is still the best investment in your own future. To invest in your future, you can't do much better than go to college. Yeah, even if you need to borrow for that. I would also like to say to those students: borrow with moderation. Some of you have me worried about loan anxiety. I will tell you about this in a moment, because we do not see much of that in the figures. I do get signals from DUO that we should warn students not to borrow too enthusiastically. The interest rate is now very low. I'm rather afraid that students might borrow a little more than they strictly need to do their studies properly, than that they wouldn't study out of fear of borrowing. Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan and Mr Kwint asked about the figures. Does Lena version play a role in the influx? I'd like to say a few things about that. The Policy Measures Monitor that we sent to the Chamber at the beginning of the summer shows that loanaversion does not play an explicit role in the choice of MBO students to continue studying. The total number of students with a migration background that flows into higher education increased by 6% in the academic year 2016/2017. So we do not see in the figures that the introduction of the social loan system would play a role in the influx. We can see that there are groups that have a bigger aversion against borrowing, but that does not affect their decision to study anyway. And that's a good thing, because fortunately these students come to the conclusion with me that studying is the best investment in their future, even if they have to borrow for that. Mr Kwint also mentioned first-generation students. Does the loan system lead to fewer influxes? There too I say, as the monitor shows, that the introduction of the social loan system has not allowed first-generation students to study less than children of parents who had already received higher education. First-generation students also borrow for their studies just as often. Here too we see that there may be a bit more loanaversion, but it does not affect the decision to study anyway. We do see that students are more concerned about their financial situation. You can say it's also good that students are alert to their financial situation. We'll monitor that well, too. But right now, we're actually seeing that influx continues to go well. That is good news, and that is not surprising either, because the system is also designed to prevent students from studying for that reason. Mr Kwint also had a question about the flow of havists to HBO. He quoted the CBS. He's right when he says that the CBS signals an effect for havists with parents in welfare. That's right. But the CBS has only looked at this factor, and not at all other factors that are important for higher education entry, such as study results and the like. So it is only a partial picture and we are looking at the total in the Policy Measures Monitor. So yes, the CBS has made a limited numerical analysis on the basis of which you can draw that conclusion, but it does not give the total story. And we have to keep seeing the whole story. The influx of havists into higher education is also, in fact, a certain recovery. Yeah, there's been a dip in it, too, but we're seeing a certain recovery there, too. At the end of 2016, the percentage of havists passing to the HBO is 76%. This is an increase of 3% compared to the previous year. I understand that some of you say it leads to less equality of opportunity, but we do not see that in the figures. I believe that we have the task of monitoring such a change in the system very closely whether it leads to a more unequal influx, but we do not see that in the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	The minister says she sees recovery in the flow from havo to hbo. To this end, she was right to point out that my question focused on children whose parents are in the welfare system. The Minister says: we do not have the whole picture, because perhaps there are other things going on. We see that the influx to HBO is increasing over the whole range, but that is not the case for the group of young people with parents in the assistance. We have no reason to believe that the population of young people whose parents are in welfare can suddenly learn less well. It is not surprising, then, that the conclusion is drawn that access to higher education is under pressure for children from poor families by introducing the debt system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	At first sight, I understand that Mr Kwint draws that conclusion. But you should also, for example, see what the final figures were and whether there was a migration background or not. Of course, you have to consider the total number of variables before you can see if there is an effect that is due to the social loan system. That is not the case; we have also concluded that in the monitor. You refer to the analysis made by the CBS. That is only a very partial analysis. In the monitor, we make sure that we can compare it very well, year by year. That's where we take all these variables.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	Of course, you can never bring all the variables. Maybe the weather was bad or there was a headwind, which made them late for the exams. There are always things we don't know. The minister says, "Maybe those kids had a migration background." It could be. I don't know. I don't think that's interesting either. We're talking about things that we do know. And we do know that children whose parents are in welfare are now less likely to go from HAVO to HBO than before, while there is no reason to assume other groups are more likely to go to the HBO that something has suddenly changed in that group of children whose parents are in welfare in recent years. Then that conclusion isn't so crazy, is it? The Minister first says that that conclusion is not supported by the facts. That's what I'm wondering. Then she says: we're going to investigate it further. It's one of those two, isn't it? Or we already know, and then we don't have to investigate it any further. Or we don't know, but then at least what I'm saying isn't true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	I didn't say we're gonna investigate it any further. I understand Mr Kwint very well. He also wants to be able to draw the conclusion that the social loan system, which he did not want, has led to an effect which he thought he could predict. I understand he's taking every straw to support that conclusion. In the Policy Measures Monitor, we look at the impact every year. That's how we agreed with the Chamber. In addition, we take many factors with us. You have now taken out one CBS study that shows something else in the figures. But then you cannot conclude one-on-one that the social loan system is the cause of this, because there are many more factors in that group. And that's exactly what this investigation didn't investigate. I believe that this is how I agreed with the Chamber: every time we show in the Monitor Policy Measures how the influx develops. Many factors are being considered. If we put those monitors next to each other year by year in the same way, we can see very well what the effects are. I understand that you don't find it satisfactory if those effects show that the social loan system doesn't affect the influx, but it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	It's easy for me anyway. Now the Minister has just called the CBS a'strohalm'. Well, well, those CBS people probably have something better to do in the meantime, so they'll get over it. But I have not yet heard any good argument as to why the conclusion of the CBS would not be true. The Minister only says that it may not be true; we need to look at all kinds of different factors. I'm gonna take an investigation and say, "That's where this conclusion comes from." Next, the Minister says that Mr Kwint would very much like to conclude, but the facts do not support that. Secondly, I do not hear any fact that the conclusion is that it is not because of the loan system that children whose parents grow up in poverty, in welfare, are now less likely to go from HAVO to HBO. The Minister doesn't think so, but I haven't heard any evidence of that for that particular group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	I think we're gonna circle around now. I've given my reasoning. Mr Kwint does not consider it satisfactory. Conversely, I find his assumption unsatisfactory. I think we should note that we are never going to convince each other about this, because you simply want to come to a different conclusion than I do. I will continue with a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	If that could be a little pointy, I would appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	I don't have much left either, so I'm gonna try to do that pointy. Mrs Van den Hul had a question about obstacles to lifelong development. We, as a cabinet, are fully committed to this. Together with Mr Koolmees, I have sent you a letter on this subject. And yes, our main task is, of course, for people with a great distance from the labour market, because there is also the greatest profit to be gained by lifelong development, and it is not obvious to that group that they are offered training and continuing training by a different route. So yes, we continue to have that commitment together. Mrs van den Hul also asked about the guidance of students. We've talked about that before. The quality agreements also pay great attention to this. We have asked institutions to formulate specific intentions on this issue, on the issue of equality of opportunity. In my letter on accessibility and equality of opportunity, I dealt with the opportunities offered by this guidance. I would like to point out, for example, what we do through ECHO with Students-4-Students. Those are very nice buddy projects. And yes, they help. The UvA also has similar programs. Those buddy projects, and making sure students take each other in experiences: that helps. We continue to pay attention to such forms of guidance. Mr Van Meenen asked whether equal opportunities would be taken into account in the use of the study resources and whether equal opportunities would also be addressed through this line and through all the resources that could be invested in higher education. Yes, that is true, because we have identified about six subjects on which objectives must be agreed by the institutions. One of these topics is study success, including throughput, accessibility and equal opportunities. So yes, we will also really be monitoring whether agreements are being made about it. Another element that Mr Van Meenen asked for is funding. In higher education, too, we see that so-called second-chance students, who, for example, have already studied for a short period of time in HBO, come up with something: that university is actually something for me. If you have a lot of them, as is the case with the VU for example, universities run into them in the funding system. I have asked the Van Rijn Committee to look into the possibility of removing obstacles to equal opportunities in the financing of the European Regional Development Fund. This will be reported to you before the summer. Mrs Van den Hul also had a question about decentralised selection. She asked: if there is a numerus fixus and there is decentralised selection, will it not happen in a way that prevents equal opportunities? I have already informed the Chamber that I am not convinced that the current method of decentralised selection offers a wide range of opportunities for equal opportunities. We are still studying further, but one thing is certain: these decentralised selections can be improved on this point. I will also give you further information on this matter. On the aforementioned report of ResearchNed you will receive my response as soon as possible. Mr. Rog asked for attention to mbo-2-educated. He was talking about girls. But "mbo-2 educated in care": let's not think so stereotyped. That can also be very often boys, and let's hope that they will increasingly be boys as well. Those MBO-2 trained people want to enter the labour market and then find out that they also want MBO-3 for a lot of the jobs they want. He wondered if there would be any obstacles. Actually, there aren't, because inside the MBO you can stack very easily. The student funding will continue to be a gift if you obtain that diploma within ten years. There, too, there are actually no obstacles in the financial sense for those students who want to stack there. It is something that you rightly call attention to, because it is something that we must be vigilant about. Where are obstacles for people who want to stack if it improves their chances in the labour market? But I don't think they're here. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	Very good. Thank you; that is appreciated. I'm gonna see if there's a need for a second term on the side of the Chamber. I'm just looking at Mr. Azarkan, whose hand goes up. The floor is therefore for him to speak. He has one minute's speaking time, like everyone else in the second term. One minute for Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the rulers for the answer. There are a number of things we will have to wait and see. In the meantime, I've prepared three motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that last year's research by the Research Centre for Education and Labour Market showed that MBO students have difficulty finding an internship and that the figures show little improvement compared to comparable research in 2014;]] [[Whereas an internship guarantee for all pupils in the MBO is desirable in order to prevent MBO students from lagging behind or falling behind in education because they cannot find an internship in good time;]] [[calls on the Minister to enter into talks with educational institutions on this subject to ensure an internship guarantee for all students in the MBO, thereby implementing the Jadnansing et al motion. (34300-VIII, No. 39),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	A quick question. An internship guarantee, Chairman! That should therefore apply to all pupils, including those who make a mess of things, who have no discipline, who are brutal, who are aggressive, who intimidate employers and who steal those employers blindly. I heard it all. They all need an internship guarantee? Is that what you really want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	I want an internship guarantee from the educational institutions for all MBO students, in such a way that it will no longer lead to some students not having an internship place and, as a result, to an educational disadvantage. The issues raised by Mr Beertema require a different approach. We need to talk about that. That student must be punished for what goes with it. If there is no place for that student at the school, that can be the rule in an extreme case. But to say now "we're not going to do an internship guarantee, because we think that this reduces the odds, but we're also helping a small group of kids who are messing up too much" I find a bit of a weird style.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	It's not that small a group. I've worked there for years, and I've seen them pass by: students who aren't hitting a country, who are really very aggressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	Yeah, and you never handled them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	You didn't take it? They beat me up! As one of the few, because the rest didn't do anything about it. But to give that kind of student an internship guarantee, that's a goddamn game, you can't live up to that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	There should be an approach aimed at preventing such behaviour, addressing it and punishing it if necessary, but that does not mean that a lot of pupils are lagging behind because they cannot find an internship. We believe that this is unfair, and that is why it leads to greater inequality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Education Council summarizes the inequality of opportunity in education in the following nutshell:]] [[segregation on the basis of parent education and income is increasing;]] [[children with different social backgrounds are less and less likely to meet each other, which undermines social cohesion;]] [[early selection at 12 years of age is detrimental to children from lower socio-economic environments;]] [[children from lower-educated families are more often referred to vmbo at the same level of performance and children with higher-educated parents are more often referred to habo and vwo;]] [[there are less wide secondary schools, which reduces the chance of moving to a higher level later;]] [[calls on the government, partly on the basis of the above points, to present an action plan on how to reduce inequality of opportunity in education, so that we get the best of all Dutch children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	I have a very short one, Mr. Chairman. It's really short. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that any child, regardless of origin, religion, profession or training of his or her parents or the district where he or she grows up, must be able to develop his or her talent optimally and that each pupil follows the level of education appropriate to him or her;]] [[also points out that subjective judgements and prejudices should not play a role in providing advice for secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	Mr. Chairman. As far as I've been able to follow the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	The third?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	No, the second one. I am a Dutch champion of speed, but quick listening is another field apart, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	Never too old to learn, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	No, that's right. But I think that's a motion that Minister Slob was talking about. It is actually the motion that I tabled a while ago and which the Education Council has already implemented, namely how do we make this system more focused on opportunities? Does Mr Azarkan agree with me? The Minister gave a detailed answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u142	If that means the minister says "I'll take her over," that's fine. I have not checked whether it is all one-to-one on Mr Van Meenen's motion. I didn't test that. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u143	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u144	We're a small party and so many motions are filed every week. But I'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u145	I do not blame Mr Azarkan at all. The Minister also summarized the fact that the Education Council mentioned a number of aspects which do indeed stand in the way of equality of opportunity. So I honestly think it's an unnecessary motion. I love research very much and finding the best solutions, but not if we've already found them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u146	I do not agree with Mr Van Meenen that we have already found the best solution. I think there are a number of things that we can do differently. That is why I am not asking for a study, but for a concrete action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u147	Fine. Thank you. Mrs Van den Hul, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u148	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the focus of the transition from primary to secondary education lies in the school's opinion and the final test is only a second objective;]] [[noting that with comparable performances pupils with lower-educated parents receive lower school advice than pupils with higher-educated parents;]] [[Whereas each child should be given the opportunity to prove himself;]] [[noting that few schools, as in the Final Review Act p.o. intended to update the school advice if a student has obtained a better final test score;]] [[calls on the Government to offer children maximum opportunities and to always give the benefit of the doubt by giving the highest advice and adjusting the school advice of the primary school teacher to at least higher combined school advice, if a student has obtained a better final test score,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u149	And my second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fact that some parents can afford to pay for necessary tutoring for their child but not other parents, is a source of inequality of opportunity in our education;]] [[Considers that its own school should be able to offer tutoring as an apprentice in a profession he or she has difficulty with;]] [[calls on the Government to explore what would be necessary in order to provide each fundative school with a tutoring budget in the long term, so that any child who needs support can be sure of tutoring facilities at their own school as soon as this is necessary for progress in the school career,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u150	Mr. Chairman. I ended my first term with a very clear question to the cabinet in the end: what are you going to be reckonable for, what will be the result of the efforts you have made? I would like a somewhat more detailed answer to that, or actually want an answer to it at all, because I do not think I have heard it. We come back to the parent contribution in great detail, but at least I see it as support that the Minister has said that there is still a lot to be done in secondary schools as far as he is concerned, and that it is even scratching the law. There's still plenty of work to be done, so... Minister Slob also said that something is happening in all four areas that the Education Council identified. Then I'd like to come back to that shadow education. I don't think anything's going to happen there, except for an investigation. My question, then, is whether we should not have the objective of reducing its size. Then there's the loan system, the famous loan system. The minister says to students that they should not borrow too much and then raises interest rates. I come with a study that shows that children who grow up in poverty are less likely to go from havo to hbo. I mentioned an investigation. The Minister did not oppose it, and until then I would really like to say: boys, be incredibly sharp on this. Because we are really scared that does not have to do with getting right or anything else that students are going to fall out of the boat here and that students are going to fall out of the boat here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u151	Thank you. Then Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u152	Mr. Chairman. This was a weird debate. This decline in equality of opportunity in education is directly proportional to the immigration of disadvantaged groups from Morocco and Turkey, but nobody says it. Only D66 referred for a moment to all those children in early school who do not speak Dutch because there is no Dutch spoken at home.That can easily be restored: speak Dutch and the government has to do something about it. The result is that whole groups have been named victims again. The same people are now convinced that the government and not them themselves are responsible for their hopeless situation of dependence and are thus condemned to a life in marginality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u153	Your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u154	My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the issuing of the school advice that the transition from p.o. is a crucial moment in a student's further career;]] [[Considering that school advice is too often subjective, placing pupils in too low a further education which does not respect their intelligence, abilities, knowledge and skills;]] [[calls on the Government to take the final test before issuing the school opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u155	And I would like to say that it was almost co-presented by the VO Council, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks, one minute too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u157	Mr. Chairman. We receive many signals from schools that people prefer to do a different level than leave it. If you ask what that is about, you often get the answer that they think it should be the inspection. Hence my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that school assessment is based on learning outcomes;]] [[Whereas this can contribute to a situation where returns are central and not the pupil and this leads to additional stress and workload for pupils;]] [[Whereas pupils have the right to make choices which, in retrospect, are different from what they thought;]] [[Whereas in education the importance of the student should be paramount and not the figures;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultation with the education inspection to consider whether a review of the educational outcomes model could lead to less efficiency thinking in schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u158	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u159	Mr. Chairman. One more question from Mr Rog had not been answered by me. That was the question when the Chamber will receive further information on parental involvement. That will happen in the first quarter. Probably in February I will continue to inform the Chamber about the state of play on this subject. Mr Van Meenen asked me about the law of apprenticeship. The intention is to inform the Chamber of the steps taken before the spring recess, including this quarter. Mr Kwint has asked what the cabinet wants on this subject. I think I have been very clear about this, also in view of the direct cause for this debate, namely that OECD report specifically concerning children with a migrant background, and the outcome of the study in the Netherlands on where we stand in that respect. I said at that time that if we compare the situation in the Netherlands with that of the OECD and the EU, we are actually doing quite well. But that's no reason to sit back. So we will also have to try to take advantage of opportunities that exist. And, of course, we need to discuss with each other what we think is important or not. That's never finished. You will not be ready, in a manner of speaking, until every child has equal opportunities. So we're just gonna keep working like hell on this until the last day. Even if we achieve good results, we are not satisfied in that respect, because further improvements are always possible. We do so not only from the cabinet, but we do so with all those involved in the country, in education and also at other levels of administration where this is being done. I have already indicated that we can now see that the number of municipalities is growing at municipal level, where there have now been very active agreements on this subject in council agreements. So we're never done with this, and I don't think we should ever be satisfied. Because when you've accomplished something, you have to make sure you hold it. Mr. Chairman. A number of motions have been tabled. The first motion tabled by Mr Azarkan will be dealt with by my colleague shortly. In his motion in part No. 151 is actually asking for an action plan. That's literally in the operative part. I did not charge the Chamber in the first term with explaining in detail what we are doing at the moment, because I have, I think, been speaking long enough. I have indicated that we are working on this subject in a very large number of areas, and I have promised the Chamber, also in writing in the answers to the questions put by Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld, that I will inform the Chamber quickly about the progress of this matter. So I advise against this motion, but in the letter I have promised, I will explain again in detail in what areas we are all working on. As far as I am concerned, the word 'action plan' should be added to that, because there are a lot of activities and there is a lot of movement in this area. I shall therefore inform the House of that fact. I therefore advise against this motion, but I will give you an overview of the things we do. Mr. Chairman. The third motion tabled by Mr Azarkan, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, There is no question of asking the cabinet, so I have no judgment on that. It is up to the Chamber to judge that. The motion in part No. 153 is from the Labour Party and is about the final review in the p.o. The motion tabled by Mr Beertema, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I would ask for both motions to be held, because I have indicated how we are going to proceed with this. I shall come back to that in the final evaluation. I therefore ask the authors to hold on to these motions. If they don't, I'll advise against these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u160	I am looking at Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u161	I'd like to hold my motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u162	At the request of Mrs van den Hul, I propose her motion (35000-VIII, No. 153). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u163	I'd like to hold my motion, too, Mr. Chairman. But I'll come back to the motion in part No. 152. It calls for a ruling from the Chamber. The Minister can't say anything about it, but as I read it, it's an unbelievable open door. Maybe I can speak on behalf of my colleagues. I'd say she's redundant, so move her in. That would be my appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u164	But you're not a minister, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u165	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 154 by Mrs Van den Hul is about the tutoring budget. I advise against this motion. Schools get the lumpsum cost to do things they have to do, including guidance of students. But when it comes to vo, you will know that they will also receive extra money through the late-stage and learning tools. We are already talking about EUR 48 million. You know that we are not going to prescribe exactly what they should spend everything on from The Hague. But if they find that necessary in specific circumstances, then tutoring is of course just a part of that and they can also choose to do so. But I'd really like to leave that in that spot, too, so I advise against this motion. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's motion to item No. 156. I'm a little confused. I thought I had promised that I would take the subject with me in the consultation I would have with the inspection to talk about equality of opportunity, which we regularly talk about. Then I'll just take this, too. I understand that this commitment is not trusted, because there is now a motion. I regret that, because I believe that I have promised this in all sincerity. You can write it down and you can call me back if it's going to take too long. I therefore advise against this motion because I believe that, if I have made a commitment, you may take my word for it and keep my word in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u166	I fully agree with the Minister. I just didn't hear it as a commitment. But if the minister here says "I'm gonna do that," then of course I'm not filing this motion, or I'm gonna withdraw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u167	Yeah, I think I made it as a commitment, too. If that did not come across well, then repeat it. I will talk to them about this in the context of the issue of equality of opportunity. I told you: if I can take it with me in the letter, I will, and if it is later, it will be a little later. I think I said that literally. But I hope it can also be included in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u168	Since the Westerveld motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u169	Mr President, those are the motions I have dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u170	Thank you very much for that. Then I would like to give the floor to Minister Van Engelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a resolution, one motion for a I would like to discourage that motion, because it is in fact completely superfluous. The MBO really doesn't need it. The internship and professional practice are a mandatory and substantial part of all training courses. In addition, SBB has the legal task of ensuring that there are sufficient internships at learning work companies. Legally enough is therefore arranged to ensure that everyone can get an internship place to complete their studies. The warranty you want is already covered by the law. Your motion is therefore superfluous and therefore dissuade. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u172	Clear, thank you very much. Thank you to both regiments for their presence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u173	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. So far.
