ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to the questions of Mr Fritsma of the PVV to the State Secretary for Justice and Security about the report that the Netherlands took up migrants from controversial ships. Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Recently, in Malta, the ship docked the Sea-Watch 3, with dozens of migrants on board. The Sea-Watch 3 is a ship of human smugglers, a ship that illegally transfers migrants from North Africa to Europe. Unfortunately, the ship also sails under the Dutch flag and the organisation behind this ship has a squat in Amsterdam as mailing address. This criminal human trafficking organization is now being helped by the cabinet. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security has promised to bring some of the illegal migrants from the Sea-Watch to the Netherlands. This makes the Netherlands an active link in the human smuggling network. And that, of course, is a great shame. The Secretary of State simply finishes what the criminals of the Sea-Watch have started, which is to bring illegal migrants to the desired destination in Europe. What has this Secretary of State got to do with rewarding human trafficking, even participating in it and indicating that it pays to make the illegal crossing to Europe? The problem is, of course, only getting worse in this way. The proof of this has already been provided because the Sea-Watch 3 has already left for North Africa to pick up new illegal migrants. That is the only result of surrendering to human trafficking. Mr. Chairman. The PVV urges the Secretary of State to reverse the dangerous decision to bring migrants from the Sea-Watch to the Netherlands. In addition, the PVV demands that these types of smuggling vessels never be able to sail again and certainly not under the Dutch flag. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'll highlight my side of the facts. And that is that the organization Sea-Watch picked up 32 people from the sea at the beginning of the Christmas holidays, which she did without any instructions from the Coast Guard. That's a boat they've located themselves and not as it should be, on directions from the Coast Guard of the region where they're headed. Sea-Watch then spent 18 days searching for a port to dock. For humanitarian reasons alone for the sake of the 32 people on board, the Netherlands is one of the eight countries that have finally helped to get the ship into a port in Malta and to distribute equally among those eight Member States the migrants present, also on another ship. It concerns six people for the Netherlands. We have done so solely on humanitarian grounds. Because I also understand the people who say: be careful that you do not give the people smugglers in Libya the opportunity to get people off the coast on another ship. That is why we are doing a few other things. We are not going to reverse the decision, but at the same time we have said that we only want one thing in Europe, namely that there will be an orderly evacuation mechanism and the mechanism of controlled centres at the external border, as agreed in June last year. On the basis of this case, and even during the eighteen days mentioned above, we have constantly called on the European Commission and Member States to do so once and for all. Moreover, the six people I mentioned come here in the procedure and given the composition of the group of people on board, it is obvious that part of them do not receive asylum and come from countries where return is possible, so that it does not get very much better for those people. Where appropriate, after having been quiet in the Mediterranean for months and there were no ships of aid organisations, we are only prepared to participate once that structured mechanism of the European Union has been put in place. Furthermore, we have to inform the Sea-Watch organisation that if they do these things on their own without any instructions from the Coast Guard and without contacting the maritime organisations of the country where they sail and who may be on the spot earlier, we will not cooperate again by taking over people like the Netherlands. We have also informed the European Commission of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	One thing is, of course, very striking, and that is that the Secretary of State says that this is a one-off action to take over migrants from Malta after a smuggling ship has been docked there. But that is nonsense, because this has happened before, namely when the ship Lifeline came to Malta last year. And then, too, the Secretary of State said it was a one-off action to take over Malta's migrants. First of all, I would like to know why the Secretary of State does not keep a word. Why did he earlier say that only once migrants from Malta are being taken over? Which is bad enough already to just do it again a few months later? I'd like a reaction to that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Last summer, in June, the Netherlands did indeed contribute to a solution around the Lifeline. The momentum was different then, just after the June European Council. We made our contribution in the expectation that the agreements reached at the European Council in June would also lead to a structural solution in the short term. Furthermore, at that time there was also uncertainty as to what is the relationship between the Netherlands and ships that indicate that they have the Dutch flag, but do not have it and are registered only with the Dutch water sports association. The European Commission then put forward proposals for a controlled landing and control centre, but unfortunately they have not yet got off the ground. That has been reason for the Netherlands not to participate in a dozen ships in the following months. In this case, we have only made a gesture, because this organization Sea-Watch is really the only one who has tried to carry out this type of operation after months. We have done so merely to prevent a human tragedy. That's also the only motive that was leading. At the same time, we have informed this organisation, the only one who is still active today, that we are therefore no longer participating in it. So it's true that once turned twice, but that's it. Mr Fritsma also referred to the Dutch flag. He's not part of this at all. Having the Dutch flag means nothing other than that the ship and the crew are certified by the Dutch authorities, but it does not say that the Netherlands should also include drownings. The Law of the Sea says it must be done in the nearest safe haven. The Netherlands is not on the Mediterranean, and there are many countries in the vicinity with safe ports to which the captain could and should have turned. I also urge him to ensure that this is done in advance, where appropriate, because that is the only way to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	The Secretary of State simply acknowledges that he has promised never to take over Malta's migrants after a human trafficking ship docks there, but he does it anyway. He even does it without informing the cabinet beforehand. So he breaks his promise; he just does it again. He's giving in to human trafficking. So the words of this Secretary of State are not worth anything with those broken promises. Not only do we know that, but all these illegal migrants and those smugglers know that now, of course. They see that if you put pressure on politicians like this Secretary of State, they'll just give in. They see that they just collapse under the pressure. And then what happens? Then you'll only make the problem worse, because that Sea-Watch 3 went straight back to North Africa to pick up new migrants. That problem is now being actively kept alive by this Secretary of State, and that is, of course, a mockery. So again the request: do not do this! Don't do this, take that crazy decision to take these migrants back and keep your word. You promised it to the Chamber, and it must be worth something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	No, we made agreements last week with eight Member States, but at the same time we also said what the only real perspective is, including for this organisation. So it is really an unwise decision of this organisation to sail again, because I think that next time they will not be travelling around 18 but perhaps 38 days or more. I don't think there are many more countries willing to do this again. We have done it purely for the people on board who, I think, when I look at the composition of the group and, by the way, that of a group on another ship, will not get very much benefit in practice either, because they will not end up with a residence permit and will return. The appeal I make to the European Commission and to fellow Member States, and I have continued to do so over the last 18 days, is to use every case that arises once and for all to arrive at this structural solution very quickly. Because the building blocks have been ready since June last year. A small light is that for the first time something similar to that audited notification is being done in the group that is now also in Malta. But that is still a one-off thing and it should become a structural mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	I commend the Secretary of State for his decision to remove a number of people from the Sea-Watch for humanitarian reasons and at least to grant asylum procedures. Because it really couldn't go on like they were in a near-storm just off the coast of Malta. The Secretary of State is, of course, right that there should be a structural solution. At the same time, he also said: but there is no one. The question is whether it will be there soon. The Secretary of State has used firm words and said: we do this once but never again. But as long as that structural solution is not there, you keep this kind of situation, with a temporary solution where the coalition of the willing of a number of countries are willing to include people, at least in asylum procedures. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, because as long as the coalition of the willing also a number of countries are absent every time, it is also at an end. And there's an alternative when you locate boats with migrants on the Mediterranean. In this case, this has been done by an overflying plane, which could have also alerted the coastguard of Libya or Tunisia or a country nearby, which could have been on the spot more quickly. So there is an alternative and I would argue that that alternative should also be used. That's not done. 32 passengers have suffered 18 days, so you would almost say: see what comes of it. I think it should be a warning to the Sea-Watch not to risk human lives again in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	We live in a beautiful country, but that is certainly not a given. This also means that we must have control over our migration, who we allow and how much we allow. You know my plea. We can only do that if we make agreements with other countries. In this case, there are, of course, agreements with, for example, the Libyan Coast Guard on how to act. These NGO boats, including the Sea-Watch 3, undermine these agreements. So from the VVD fraction, the signal that is released is really unwanted at the time people are taken over from these boats. In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that he will never do this again for the Sea-Watch 3. But what does this Secretary of State intend to do, including what we have included in the government agreement for that purpose, namely to combat these shuttle services and to return to North Africa at the time when the nearest port is North Africa, which is normal in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	Last year, when we had a number of cases of this kind that the Netherlands did not participate in, I do so by reminding the European Commission and fellow Member States time and again that it is time to use every case to reach those conclusions, which state exactly what we have in the government agreement, namely controlled evacuation, if possible on the North African side, and controlled notification at the European external border. That is what I am doing with this case again, because I have made this plea to the European Commission during Christmas holidays, but also after that, to put it back on the agenda and to draw lessons from it. I believe that there are now a number of Member States, namely the last eight that also support this plea, because they too believe that it cannot go on in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have a second question on this subject, because this is so important that it is simply limited. The question is how strongly communication towards Sea-Watch is now. So does the Secretary of State intend to contact the Sea-Watch that this will never happen again, that this will just not happen again and that the Netherlands will stand firm that we will not take anyone off those boats anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	I did, of course, also mention Sea-Watch yesterday in the letter to the Chamber.
