ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Van Raak's question to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I heard coughing eagerly. So I hope you're okay. Mr Van Raak has the floor for his question on the cost of changes in the name of ministries. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	What can we do with 32 million? This costs the name of ministries at the start of this cabinet, the NOS reported. The Ministry of Economic Affairs became Economic Affairs and Climate. Infrastructure and Environment became Infrastructure and Water State. It's been a long time. Once called the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Under Rutte I that became Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation. Under Rutte II that became Economic Affairs. And now the circle is complete again: now the weather is Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. It's totally weird with this minister's ministry. The Ministry of Justice was once called the Ministry of Justice. The VVD wanted it to be the Ministry of Security and Justice. At the start of this cabinet, D66 wanted it to be Justice and Security. I read in De Volkskrant today that it cost 2 million. This has to do with the corporate style, with stationery and banners that had to be replaced, but above all with ICT. The cabinet has been there since October 2017, but what I read: next month, in May 2019, the new e-mail addresses are ready. Then all officials from @minvenj.nl can go to @minjenv.nl. Almost $2 million! I ask the Minister: this is crazy, isn't it? Where did this crazy come from? I also ask the Minister: what can we do with 32 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, thank you. Mr Van Raak referred to the costs related to changes in the name of a number of ministries, but also to the costs related to the creation of the new Ministry of Agriculture, Nature Management and Food Quality. Let me start with this straight away: that is a 26.3 million item. That's just the whole creation of a new, separate department. Reordering, re-establishing or even changing the name of ministries or if you want departments, chairman... is something of all times. Personally, I am. Do you remember this one? He was raised with the Ministry of CRM, to give you an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	That was a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	I've been coming with you for some time, Mr. Chairman. Maybe that's why I was coughing. At least it's something of all times. Social and political development must be monitored in ministries and in the classification of ministries. Indeed, in 2010, under the new Rutte I cabinet at the time, it was decided that it would be useful to combine the security stake, which until then had been with some other sources, especially with the Interior, with the judiciary. That was a major operation that took place a few years ago. Under this cabinet it has been decided to perpetuate that as well. However, it has been said that it should be "Ministry of Justice and Security" in this context. Why? Justice is the basic requirement of our rule of law. Security is a prerequisite for the realisation of justice for all. That is why we are talking about 'Justice and Security'. Mr. Chairman. Indeed, those e-mail addresses have still not changed. You can also read this on page 7 of the ADR report, where it says: "J&V.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It does not want to implement the name change in its entirety until after the end of all kinds of IT licences." That's why I now have an e-mail address with "jenv." What can you do for $32 million? Of course, there are all kinds of things to think about. In any case, you can set up a whole new department within that amount. As it happens in society from time to time, you can reorder departments or give new names.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	The Minister says that we are doing this because of social developments. I have never met anyone who said: we should really call that Ministry of Justice "the Ministry of Security and Justice." I've never met anyone who said, no, let's turn it into "Justice and Security"! It is, of course, insane that after twenty months, after twenty months! For 2 million, all those officials in that tower will be given a different e-mail address. I will say this once more: "minvenj.nl" becomes "minjenv.nl." I'm embarrassed. It is also said that we have new ministries, but we have always had a Ministry of Agriculture and always a Ministry of Economic Affairs. What do you mean, a new ministry? But it all costs 32 million. Of these, we can employ 1,280 people for a year. We can keep the Bronovo Hospital in The Hague open. We can tackle mold houses massively. We can pay for a year of paracetamol and necessary vitamin pills for people. We can give any child who grows up in poverty new shoes, a new coat or a sports subscription. If it's worth it, I'll ask the Minister. Is the change of name from "V and J" to "JenV" or the other way around "I don't know exactly what it was worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yes. Yeah, it's been worth it. I'm sorry, I wasn't clear about the cough. It's been worth it. Let me begin by correcting Mr Van Raak with a reference to what he himself said in the first term. As of 2010, there was no longer a Ministry of Agriculture, but a Ministry of Agriculture. It was in one ministry. But I want to say out loud that I met these people, both at home and abroad. I would like to invite Mr Van Raak to speak to those people again. They say: in our rule of law, justice should clearly be at the forefront of the primary task of the Ministry of Justice and Security. Then I say, yes, I think it's worth it. I would like to draw your attention to parliamentary history. If you read Professor Oud's book describing all the cabinet formations and Cabinets, you will always see how social development has taken place. Just as companies and agencies occasionally change their establishment, their organisation or their name, so must the government. I will conclude with: I fully support the change of name from "V and J" to "JenV," because justice should be at the forefront as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	It's bullshit. The Minister says that he has spoken to many people at home and abroad who believe that Justice should be called "Security and Justice" and now again "Justice and Security." I don't believe it. It's bullshit. It's propaganda. It's a fair appearance. It's for the stage. It's all communication. It hasn't solved a single problem. And there's quite a bit of it. There's concrete rot in the rule of law. There's a shortage of police, a shortage of prosecutors and judges. And this is where the money gets thrown away. I propose that the Ministry of Justice should now simply call it "Justice," the Ministry of Economic Affairs "Economic Affairs" and the Ministry of Agriculture "Agriculture." Name things as they are and get them out of the hands of all those propaganda makers who have to rename everything for many millions in each cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	A few ministries have received a K: EZK for Climate and BZK for Kingdom Relations. We're not called "J, V, and K," with the "K" of "Bollocks." I completely disagree with your member, if you will allow me. I think it has been very right that now that this ministry has become so definitive with a judicial and security foot, it has been decided that we show everyone in the Netherlands, but also outside, that justice is the foundation for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	Opstelten, Van der Steur and Teeven were Minister of Security and Justice. They have, in our opinion, acted unfairly in recent years. That's why they all had to leave. Some of them now have waiting money. Then D66 had to introduce into the coalition that that name had to be purified, more or less laundered, of all that malpractice at the Ministry of VVD-huis. Then I think: EUR 2 million was thrown away to go from 'Security and Justice' to 'Justice and Security'. 2 million euros doesn't go to health care. 2 million euros does not go to security. EUR 2 million does not go to the points that we all want to achieve here. The question then is: the malpractice is caused by the VVD; are you prepared to recover the cost of EUR 2 million from the parties that caused that policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	Let me say first of all that there is no question of money being thrown away. As far as the Acts are concerned, Mr Teeven has not been a minister but a State Secretary at the Ministry of Security and Justice. I would also like to stress that, as I said earlier, there is no reason to assume that there have been unjustified costs in terms of social development. Parliamentary history shows...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	... that ministries reorganise, reorganise and get a new name every once in a while. That has happened here, and that is perfectly justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you.
