ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday afternoon. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver, on behalf of GroenLinks, for his questions to the Prime Minister on the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is working on his street credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. If this Prime Minister listens to the big business, the cabinet gets into trouble. That's what we saw in 2018, with the dividend tax, and that's actually what we're seeing right now, 2019 hasn't started as long as it's about the climate. The lobby of multinationals is being listened to, and the environmental movement is going away. The lobby of these large multinationals is being listened to. I don't see any CO taxes in the plans. The big business is not actually going to pay for it; the bill is going to be paid by citizens and citizens are not going to take it anymore. Mr. Chairman. This is worrying. Because just before Christmas, we were all here, with eight parties, in trade-K. We defended the Climate Act, which was adopted here in the House of Representatives. And we said together: we're going to achieve that 49% reduction of CO by 2030. Now the question is, how? Last year, the cabinet put 150 organisations to work for him to actually do that work for him. And now it's said: well, it's a choice set, we have to see how we deal with it and we're going to add something ourselves. Mr. Chairman. 2018 has become a lost year when it comes to the climate if this was apparently just an exercise in listing as many measures as possible. Well, that wouldn't have been enough. I ask this Prime Minister if he is prepared to take additional steps to ensure that this large business is also paid for. Can he promise here that he'll include a CO tax in the plans as well? Secondly, transparency towards the electorate. It's important. In March we go to the ballot box. I would like to see all the figures in the accounts of the climate plans for the Provincial State elections shared with the House of Representatives, so that a debate can take place in society and here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. The aim, in the Climate Act, of which Jesse Klaver was one of the initiators, but also in the coalition, is to achieve a 49% reduction in CO emissions by 2030. We buried on that. That requires a great deal of action. That reduction is necessary to ensure that we do not shift the mess to the next generation, as we do not do with public debt. What we now have is a draft climate agreement, consisting of everything that has resulted from the discussions on the various polluting sectors. Those were the climate tables, the built environment, agriculture, industry and so on. In addition, as part of the draft climate agreement, the letter from the cabinet in which we say a number of things about it and ask for variations to be looked at here and there. All of that comes back at some point. I cannot answer Mr Klaver's second question on the exact timing here, which seems to me to be a question for discussion with the Minister. But this point comes back at some point from the accounts of the different planning agencies. Then there are two things that have to be done. Then there must be a final climate agreement, leading to political decision-making leading to that 49% reduction, in a way where three things are very important. Firstly, that we can make it happen financially, including families, the citizens of the country, so that we do not have to give up our way of life. The second condition, which is also very important, is that we ensure that the business community, a point made by Mr Klaver, participates fairly in that whole, so that it is not unfairly favoured. A third important condition is that we make sure that people understand what they can do in their personal lives to make it all happen. Finally, Mr Klaver's specific point on business. The idea now lies in saying to companies: you have to tighten up your CO emissions in a relatively short period of time, because it has to go back a lot; if you don't, you will get a very heavy fine. This means that these companies have to invest very heavily to make that happen. This is not immediately reflected in the tables, but these are very substantial investments by these companies. This is a different way from the CO levy, which Mr Klaver is arguing for. We're about to see what's coming back, including from the credit transfers, and what's real at the time. One of the three keys will be whether the business community participates fairly in this. Larger companies currently produce roughly a quarter of the emissions, have to meet about one third of the target and receive a sixth of the subsidy. We need to look back at whether it really is the way it comes back, whether it's fair, fair and whether it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	I'm in a situation here. Maybe you could hold on to that last year, but now there are choices to be made. I expect from the Prime Minister... That's what I asked for. How does he see the 49% reduction being achieved? All I hear is taboo. We can't talk about charging. We are not going to do a CO tax either, because we are working with a very complicated system of fines. Keep it simple. A tax on CO emissions is easy to implement and has the greatest impact on reducing CO emissions. I hear, for example, a taboo on the reduction of the mega-stables in the Netherlands. The question is what choices this Prime Minister makes. It's very simple. Or you're a climate denier, we have a few of them in this Chamber too, and you say: as far as we are concerned, climate change doesn't have to be tackled at all; CO emissions, that has nothing to do with humans. Or you want to. If you do it, then you have to make sure that the largest business community is also firmly engaged. I think the Prime Minister's wording is too cautious. I would ask him to do so, and he can do so now, first of all, whether he does not want to rule out the possibility of a real CO tax being introduced into the final plans. Secondly, I ask him to make public the accounts of the plans as they are now before the elections, so that a political debate can take place on them. I'm asking him to ask the planning agencies. On both very specific questions, I would very much like a commitment from this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	On the second point, I have already said that I am not the right address for this. On the first point, I can go into more detail. The goal of the coalition and I also thought wide of the Chamber is ultimately to budget the 49% reduction in CO emissions. That's not because we all like it so much. This is necessary to ensure that we do not shift the major environmental damage, environmental debt, just as we do not shift the public debt, to future generations, to children and grandchildren. We want to do this in a way that I just outlined: that people can experience it, that we all understand what we can do in our own lives to achieve it and that business is not unfairly favoured. In the plan as it stands, these companies must make huge investments in order to avoid these heavy fines. But I have already said that we will be looking very critically at these three keys or what comes back to us in the context of the framework conditions I have outlined. There are no taboos, not even the suggestions made by Mr Klaver here. There is no taboo at all. This is the choice we have made in the draft climate agreement for the time being. How this will eventually become final will be evident if we also see the securities and the transfers. By the way, it was always the cabinet's plan and I also thought wider of the Chamber: to take these steps step by step so that you can take the final decisions around the first, second quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finalizing Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	In order to ensure that there is as broad support as possible in the Netherlands, we need to give people the feeling that nothing is messed up through this. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to urge the planning agencies to make the figures for the transfers available well before the elections, so that there can be a debate on them. That is his responsibility. An agreement has now been negotiated and discussed for a very long time behind the scenes. Politics is the move now. That debate must be held here. I believe that this should be done on the basis of the figures that come out of the accounts. They must be available well before the elections. Then we should be able to talk about that. The Prime Minister is exactly the right address to bring this up. I would like him to go to the planning agencies with the question of'save those figures well before the elections', so that we can have a fair and fair debate here and make all the parties here understand how we will achieve that 49%, how we will affect the citizens and how we will not and how we will allow the big business in the Netherlands to contribute fairly to tackling climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	First at the trial. If these transfers are available, then the political decision-making must take place in the cabinet. We will then have to come to a final conclusion which will lead to the 49% target being achieved along the three lines I have just outlined, meeting these three important conditions. We don't have a presidential system in the Netherlands. Mr Klaver asked me about Question Time. I said a while ago, on another subject: it was conceivable to ask the Secretary of State for that. That almost led to a strike and then I came myself. You're right. That is absolutely fine, but it has the disadvantage that, because we do not have a presidential system, I really have to refer the question he is asking to the Minister of Trade. Whether that's feasible, I just don't know. I can't estimate that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Mr Asscher, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr. Chairman. The VVD makes another political call. There's a climate agreement from the Cabinet. That is being passed on and suddenly it is being pretended that that is not their agreement. It is a bad agreement, because the bill is placed with the citizen and not with the companies, but it is your agreement. My question is whether it is true that the VVD Prime Minister, the VVD Minister for Economic Affairs and the VVD leader negotiated in a so-called cockpit tens of hours before sending this agreement to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u14	The proposals come from the five groups that have looked in detail at what you can think of each other to ensure that in all sectors, whether agriculture, the built environment, industry, the electricity sector or infrastructure, you bring together the measures that, in a mix, lead to 49% reduction in CO emissions. On these proposals, on the basis of an internal discussion, also with the coalition, the cabinet has written a letter which has been sent to the Chamber, together with the documents in which we ask for a number of other variants to be passed on. That is a concept of a climate agreement. That is being passed on, and when that pass-through is back, we have to get a package out of it. That is what we have to decide politically in the coalition for that 49%. I'm confident that's gonna work. It is true that we should look at business and whether it is fair, whether we are not favouring it too much. The first cautious assessment is that the larger polluters, as I have just outlined, cause about one quarter of the pollution in the Netherlands, have about one third of the task and receive about one sixth of the subsidy. Those are numbers I want to see when it comes back, whether they're right, whether that's fair and whether that's fair. There are no taboos in this respect if alternatives are to be sought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, so all those VVD guys negotiated hours, nights and days before they sent this deal, but now it's not a good time. What is lacking in the agreement is an effective levy for industry, a CO levy. We asked the planning agency to pass that on at the same time, because we think that is the only way to make a fair bill. It is remarkable that D66 leader Rob Jetten from Poland said, 'As far as we are concerned, there will be a CO levy' and that when I asked him whether that would not be an idea half nodded, but that it was not in it. While we see in many countries around us that it works and that it is fair, also to the citizens. My question is this: has the Prime Minister been approached, lobbied, addressed outside the climate tables? Have any arguments been made with him against introducing such a very logical CO levy? Or, to simplify the question, who sent the text this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u16	Let's get to the content. It is not the case that there is such a carbon tax across Europe for business. You'll see it for the electricity sector. Of course, the cabinet also intends to do so. Of course, you see ETS sectors, Emissions Trading System sectors, in Europe. But the question is, in the end, what do you do about the pollution? Those large polluting companies must, once again, contribute about 14.3 megatons, about one third of the whole task. How do you get it the best? You can indeed do that through a CO levy. That could be a variant. The variant that we find more exciting at the moment is that you ask those companies to build up to that 14.3 megaton very quickly. That calls for huge investments. If they don't, they're gonna get huge fines, too. Thus, you stimulate the positive process that these companies actually innovate. I think that's what most companies want. Not even so much to avoid that fine, but because they also want to remain competitive. But again, our assumptions about this, whether it works and whether alternatives are needed: it's all on the table when the bills come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u17	The PVV does not need a pass-through to say that we should never take those terrible measures from the climate agreement. I say to the Prime Minister: in order to achieve the objectives for which his party, the VVD, has signed and which are simply in the coalition agreement, there is a need for rude, priceless and draconian measures that will hit the citizen hard in his pocket. The PVV believes, Madam President, that the Prime Minister should never do so outside the electorate. It was not in his election programme, and the voter has never been able to judge it. So my question to the Prime Minister is: get out, write elections, let the voters decide whether they want this policy or not. If you do, you're a guy. If you do not, I promise you that that same voter will deal with your party on 20 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr President, I would like to give it a try. The previous cabinet, of course, signed the agreements made in Paris. And I think that's right. In Paris, a global agreement was reached to reduce CO emissions. I told you, that's what it takes to keep you from saddled up with a planet that pollutes further; that's what we have to solve ourselves. What if you didn't see that and you said, "I don't see this whole warming up." Then do it for two other reasons. Do it in the first place because the air is already very polluted in the Netherlands. The quality of our air is already not good and our children are growing up in it. And do it in the second place because if you achieve these goals, innovation will unlock and it will also make you less dependent on other countries, which we are now dependent on for our energy supply. So if you didn't believe in that warming, do it for those other reasons. Then the balance sheet is important. There must be a balance where you achieve those goals, but in a way where people can live their lives and where everyone understands, I, you, Mr Wilders, and everyone else, what we can do in our lives to make our contribution step by step, in a practical, practical way. Finally, the relationship between families, citizens in the country and business must also be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u19	I quote Mr Dijkhoff just to be sure. "If the alternative becomes that I have to drop either the cabinet or the citizen: I will never let the citizen down." I believe that Mr Dijkhoff is saying that he is not dropping the citizen, so he is dropping the cabinet. We believe that the polluter should pay. Does the Prime Minister share the view that if Mr Dijkhoff does not drop the citizen, he actually says: shall I drop the cabinet? How does the Prime Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u20	I have just outlined to you that the coalition believes that we must achieve the 49% reduction, and that it is also important that people can experience this and that we do not let anyone down. It is also important that we ensure that this happens in a way that people understand: what can I do? You don't have to do that tomorrow. We have 11 years until 20130 and 31 years until 2050. So it doesn't have to be all tomorrow. And third, it has to be fair. So it's my impression that no one here in this room wants to drop anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u21	Of course, we need to work on the challenge of climate in the near future, and of course we need to see what we can do about it. And because the cabinet didn't know it, they asked for more than a hundred parties to be put at five tables in the last year in order to reach an agreement, led by a VVD party coryfee. At the same time, we have a Minister for Economic Affairs of the VVD House who initially received those plans positively. We have a VVD Prime Minister who indeed states: we have a task and we have to accomplish it with each other. And we have a VVD group chairman who then states: I will drop the cabinet if it becomes priceless. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: when is he going to stop playing political games on the backs of the climate and on the backs of future generations? And when is he gonna put the word into action for once? He is now smiling, but he knows very well what I mean: the provincial state elections are coming, this is rigged, the citizen sees this and it must stop!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr President, I do not quite know what to do with this failure. I just outlined the process of this coalition and of these four parties. There's a draft climate agreement. That's what came out of all those tables. Plus there's the letter from the cabinet that includes variants. I just outlined what we want to achieve. When it is calculated immediately, the political decision-making process follows to reach the reduction target, in a way that everyone can experience, along the line that I just outlined and which is also fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u23	The Prime Minister says he doesn't know what to do with this. The Prime Minister must stop playing VVD political games about the back of the climate and future generations. This Prime Minister must show backbone in terms of climate change and not say "we can bring things together" and so on. No, he has to let me know where he stands on this one. Is he on the side of the burden increase for the multinationals or on the side of the people? Is he on the side of the VVD group, which says "I'm dropping the cabinet"? Or does he choose the climate and future generations? I believe, and many believe, that people are entitled to this Prime Minister's clarity. That is the least he can do today in this debate: to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u24	In my view, this interruption is neglecting the discussion we have had over the last 20 minutes. I have outlined the purpose of this cabinet, of this coalition: the reduction, but also in a way that can be experienced by everyone. I have argued this in detail. That is what I feel at home about, because that reduction is important. That this happens in a way that the whole society can experience across a broad front, I think, is important to the coalition, and also that we do it fairly in the relationship of companies, families, citizens. I'm repeating myself a little bit. But with that I also thought to have clearly marked my position. That's where I feel at home. I also think that this is a sensible policy. That's one step at a time. This will ensure that we can achieve ambitious objectives in a decent, real way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u25	Let's say that we immediately made those calculations and we have them here in the Chamber, and that doesn't make it possible for everyone who can make 49% by 2030, that the basis for this is not enough. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: is this 49% standard in 2030 going to be tough and should everyone go through it or can we talk about it? Can we, as a room, get along with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u26	We are assuming a 49% target. That can still move around in Europe, of course, depending on what Europe finally chooses. You can see that all European plans add up to 45% of CO emissions, but we were now budgeting 49. The coalition agreement says a lot of things. If Europe comes to other things, it can get higher or lower. If it falls, our ambition is to get it back up with neighbouring countries, not to weaken our competitiveness. But in the end, of course, you will have to follow the European average. Our ambition is that that even goes to 55. We buried at 49 now. Eventually, you do what Europe chooses. Again, if that is less than 55 or 49, then we try to boost it up with surrounding countries. We have, of course, done so because we assume, on the basis of all the information we have, that this could also be done in a way that ensures that there are enough jobs in the Netherlands and that we remain an innovative economy where people can get to work, including the next generations, in which families can do that. And that we do so in a way, in the next 11 years until 2030 and in the next 31 years until 2050, where people can also make decisions in their personal lives, following logical moments, to make their contribution to it. If we didn't have that expectation, of course we wouldn't. It all has to come back now. It's all being passed on. We're gonna take a very critical look at it. The as-dan question I would find relevant if the odds were already very high that it is not possible at all, but that is not the expectation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u27	So if the calculations immediately show that 49% is not feasible for everyone, that we will not be able to see the whole of the Netherlands, then there is room not only to go upstairs but also to go downstairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u28	I disagree with that conclusion. I didn't say it like that. This gives the impression that we are already taking account of the fact that Europe is committed to a lower target and that we are not able to raise that target with neighbouring countries either. That could be true, but that would be the outcome. But that is not so much on the basis of the question "can anyone experience it?', But more to the question "Where does Europe focus?'. But if you see all the added-up plans in Europe now lead to 45% CO emission reduction, then of course we are close to what we want here. Then, of course, it is important for the Netherlands to do the same, but in a way that is affordable for people, it does not mean that they have to give up holidays or suddenly change their whole way of life. In fact, they also have a perspective for how they can make decisions in their personal lives that contribute to them, in a very logical, pleasant way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u29	It quacks like a duck, it runs like a duck, and maybe it is a duck. The agreement reads like a VVD agreement, it sounds like a VVD agreement and the climate agreement is a VVD agreement, despite all the eye-catching efforts made by Mr Dijkhoff in recent days to get out of it. The climate agreement does exactly what is happening under the leadership of this Prime Minister during this entire cabinet period, namely: systematically favouring large companies over people. They're getting the bill transferred, and they're watching their energy bill go up. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: when is he going to put an end to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u30	I just mentioned the statistics. I told you what happened. The large companies have to do about one third of the task. They cause a quarter of the pollution and receive about a sixth subsidy. We're gonna go see if it's all right in the cashier's account. If that proves that things aren't fair, we're gonna do it differently. We are also going to see whether Mr Asscher's system, like others, as we see it now, is also workable or whether we should do something else, so that companies eventually start to benchmark against each other, so who is the best?'. If you're not, you're gonna get a hell of a fine. If you're not among the best in the class, you're gonna get a hell of a fine. That calls for huge investments. If the pass-through would show that this does not work, we are of course open to looking at alternatives. But I really don't recognize the caricature that Mrs Marijnissen is putting down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u31	I think that many people at home do not recognize the caricature that Mr Rutte is putting down, because they have received their energy bill for the new year and see it rising, despite all the fine words of this Prime Minister and despite all the passing-throughs that are still to come and despite all the decisions that may still be taken. That is the reality. We started a hotline of rising energy bills yesterday. It's red-hot. That's people's reality. The Prime Minister doesn't go into that. I asked him about that. People's energy bills are rising, while the big companies are still being spared. When's he gonna put an end to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u32	I have outlined the enormous work that lies ahead of the big companies. I have outlined that we see a way to bring them to that 14.3 megaton emission reduction, which is huge: about a third of the total. That calls for huge investments. Once again, we are quite open to looking at it again if the pass-through would show that it is unfair to citizens and families. But right now, on the basis of everything we know, we're assuming that this is the best method. Mrs Marijnissen is talking about now, about January this year. Then bring the whole story. Mrs Marijnissen should outline: yes, it is true, there are things that are rising, but we also see that in three rounds the income tax is going to be reduced and that this will have an immediate effect on the pay slip, on purchasing power. See what the Central Planning Office says about that. Then Mrs Marijnissen will have to tell the whole story if she opens a hotline and does not highlight one aspect. That's a little surfing the discontent. Then I'd say show the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u33	I would like to start by emphasising that the whole distinction between "we are going to tax the citizen" or "we are going to tax companies" is artificial, because these companies are going to pass on the costs incurred to their customers and that is the citizens in the Netherlands. So they're just gonna pay in the end. I find it very remarkable that all kinds of plans are being presented. The Prime Minister says: I support the objectives and we are going to pass on the costs. We've made the sum, too, Mr. Rutte, and we're going to be 1,000 billion. We find that unacceptable for a temperature difference of 0.00007°C over half a century. My question is: how much are you willing to pay for that tiny possible temperature difference? Are you willing to pay 1,000 billion or 2,000 billion? In fact, the question is of course: how much are you willing to ask the citizens in the Netherlands, because it is ultimately...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u34	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u35	...not your money you spend, but the money from the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u36	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u37	The Netherlands is not an island. We are part of a very beautiful big world with enormous problems. When it comes to climate change, these problems now have a geopolitical impact. A number of major problems that occur in Africa and the Middle East are directly climate-related. So there is a great deal of interest from our air quality, from combating global warming and climate change here, but also from the geopolitical situation and our dependence on fossil fuel suppliers to make strict agreements on tackling the issues worldwide. That is what we have done in the world and the Netherlands is contributing to this. If we do that smartly, and we can do that, we can also have great benefits in the sphere of innovation and jobs, but we must pay particular attention to the fact that we are not naive. If that is Mr Baudet's message, I understand. We shouldn't be naive. We must ensure that we do so in such a way that everyone can experience it and that we do it honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u38	The talking machine doesn't answer my question, as we're used to his. I think that people in the Netherlands will have to make their own judgement on this. I note that the Prime Minister is now suddenly calling for air pollution. Of course, it has nothing to do with the CO content in the atmosphere. Those are completely separate phenomena. CO is plant food and has nothing to do with the existence or absence of air pollution. My question is this. He drags the rest of the world in; he says that the Netherlands is not an island. That's true. But there has been someone who has calculated what the temperature difference would be if you believe those models, which in itself is very dubious if not only the Netherlands, but all the countries they have committed themselves to in Paris. Do you know what the difference is? In half a century it will be 0.05°C less hot on Earth. I say it again: this is a completely unmeasurable number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u39	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u40	This is crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u41	The goal we agreed with each other worldwide in 2015 is to limit global warming by 2°C. But that's actually also orientation at 1.5°C, because the assumption is that if you do that, you still have big problems, but at least it's still a bit in hand. It is very important that we do so. That is why, but also for all the other reasons I outlined in my previous reply, the Netherlands also wants to contribute to this. Of course, this must be done in such a way that certain conditions are met, as I have shown. For this whole coalition, we want to look at the position of the people and the families. Is it fair? And does everyone also understand what you could do, in a pleasant way, to contribute to this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy New Year to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u44	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u45	That's what I'm saying to the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you. Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u47	... and even to Mr Dijkhoff, because I thought: well, let's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u48	Now I think you should name everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u49	Happy New Year to everyone. I thought: let me start positively on the first day that we get back together after the recess. Because if you look through that shamelessness of the VVD, you can raise the energy taxes and then grumble that the citizens are having a hard time because of climate change measures, then there is a bright spot to discover. In fact, Mr Dijkhoff said: oh yes, wait a minute, if you leave it to the big business, LTO, Shell, VNO-NCW, then we not only have an agreement that does nothing for the climate, which we could already see because the environmental organisations got out, and that is not good for employees, the unions were already getting out of it, but that could also become very annoying for ordinary people. That is the conclusion now if you ask these parties. Does the Prime Minister share the conclusion of his colleague, Mr Dijkhoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u50	No, yeah, I'm just trying to figure out that interview. What Mr Dijkhoff says, in my opinion, is that it is very important that when we have made agreements in the coalition, we do so in such a way that people can experience it, as I just outlined, and that does not mean that people have to change their way of life and that it is fair and also in relation to business. I think he says that literally, but I didn't annotate the interview here in front of me. I'm sorry, Klaas, but I'll check it out in a minute. He also outlines how important it is to connect at logical moments in people's lives. I think that's what he said and that... Okay, that would be my summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u51	Come on, don't be so indecisive. This is the leader of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u52	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u53	It has read what the country's largest party thinks of one of the proposals it has to make. I'm sure he knows that. The conclusion was really clear that there is a great fear that this agreement could be very annoying for ordinary people. There wasn't a word of Spanish in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u54	That that's one of the important keys you have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u55	Does the Prime Minister share that conclusion? And if so, of course I want to know what this cabinet is going to do to make sure it gets fair. Because if you ask the big guys who said afterwards "we won the climate tables, you know," for example, LTO and VNO-NCW and Shell, then it doesn't seem to work out so well for the people. Does the Prime Minister want to learn from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u56	We're gonna let this all go through right now. I was just sketching the statistics for the big companies. We're gonna see if that's true and if it's fair. That's one of the keys we do. The division between what companies do and what families and citizens have to do must simply be fair. That's one of the keystones. For the coalition as a whole, we all want people to be able to experience this across a very broad front in society, that it is fair and that people also understand what they can do in their own lives to get things done. For example, we want to make the draft climate agreement that we have sent to the Chamber, all the proposals from those tables, the cabinet letter and the variants that have been put in place, all of which are now being passed on, a definitive plan to achieve that 49% in a way that is satisfactory and fair to the people and to the companies, as I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u57	Last Saturday, Mr Dijkhoff, the leader of the largest government party, the Prime Minister's party, explicitly put the option of the collapse of the cabinet into play when it comes to climate policy. On Sunday, the Prime Minister more or less trivialized that and said: we will work it out. Does the Prime Minister, when he said this and now too, assume that the content of those statements by Mr Dijkhoff last Saturday falls within the agreements we made in December in good consultation with the four of us, from D66 to VVD? Or does he assume that what he said there is beyond the agreements we made then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u58	My impression is in there. Yesterday we talked about this in a smaller circle. I think it falls in there and we have all said: we want to ensure that people can experience it and that the companies are not unfairly favoured. If you're asking me to make a choice like that, my feeling is that the interview is in there. The conversation he had with De Telegraaf was a heartfelt conversation. I'm not going to comment on that here either. But I think that is all in line with what we agreed on in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u59	I am very reassured by that answer, because I had the impression that at least the suggestion in that interview was that the VVD might have wanted something different than we agreed. But the four of us are behind what we agreed to. That leaves the next question I want to ask the Prime Minister. If you just make an appointment in December and get back to work, but then a few weeks later you have a possible cabinet crisis in there, and if you don't get your way again within that appointment, which is a daily cost, then my question is how the Prime Minister assesses that in the success rate of the whole. I am referring in particular to the work done by the Prime Minister, but also by Minister Wiebes. How does the Prime Minister judge that when it comes to the feasibility of Minister Wiebes' and himself's project?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u60	Yeah, but then we're gonna have to analyze that whole interview. I consider these statements and the answer to that question something else. On the basis of what we agreed in December and the fact that I believe the coalition agrees on these agreements, on the concept of a climate agreement that is now being passed on and on all these tables plus the letter from the cabinet with the preconditions and the variants, I still expect that we in this coalition all believe that, on that basis, we can achieve such a goal, while respecting these conditions. We are now going to try to fully interpret a question and an answer in such an interview. I don't think that's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u61	Mr Dijkhoff put himself in that interview for the choice between the citizen's support on the one hand and the coalition on the other. If he had to choose, he would choose the citizen. Has the Prime Minister ever had the impression in the talks within the coalition and within the cabinet that there would be a difference within the coalition, that there are parties who would make a different choice? And if not, if everyone is on the same side, namely that capacity and support of the citizen are an important condition for the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has just underlined that in what way does the Prime Minister see the role for himself to work on and strengthen it, where there are concerns about capacity and support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u62	I didn't read anything in the interview that the interviewee said the other parties wouldn't think that was important. At least what I know from our discussions is what I just outlined: what are the preconditions on which you will eventually look at the results of the transfers? Yes, we want to achieve the 49% target, and yes, all four parties have said that we must do so in such a way that we can all experience it in the country, citizens and families. They're the same people. So that's everybody: you, me, everyone watching, everyone in this room. So this is about the whole of the Netherlands. All four parties have said that we must also understand how this works in everyday life and what we can do and also that it must be fair. I believe that the interview also goes into this: that it is fairly divided between companies and people. These are the four objectives. It's a solid interview; I'm not going to say anything about it. The texts were firm, but as I said earlier in the direction of Mr Buma, I do not think that this would mean that there are other ideas in the coalition about the goal that we want to achieve together and not about how important it is for everyone to be able to experience it. I don't think Dijkhoff says in the interview that others don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u63	In the letter of offer, the cabinet mentions the concept of climate agreement. These are the proposals of the tables and the proposals that the cabinet makes in addition, all of which are calculated "a historic agreement." I think that is quite right, because we are one of the first countries to put together a concrete package to achieve that 49% reduction, but also to do so, as stated in the letter "Everyone can carry it," that companies and households pay a fair price for their pollution and that households can participate. The Prime Minister also mentioned this at CNN, when he himself was at the UN Climate Summit in Katowice, "historically," because there is no alternative to global warming and the future of our children. However, I have heard too little about this from the Prime Minister in the Netherlands in recent weeks, because there are rightly concerns about the already rising energy bill and about whether business is actually going to pay a fair price. My question to the Prime Minister is what, as Prime Minister of the greenest cabinet, he will ever do in the coming weeks and months to include the Netherlands in what is in that draft climate agreement and in what proposals there are or are not in order to prevent fables and cheap, tough language by simply telling what it is and what it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u64	Then, as we are discussing this today, this is a good opportunity to look at it with each other, because I think that these two aspects are in it. These aspects are, of course, also in this coalition and in this country and I believe all these parties are connected. This means: ensuring that the objectives are met together for the reasons mentioned by Mr Jetten. In my language, you don't want to move that bill to the next generation. There are huge opportunities for the Netherlands if we do this in a smart way. At the same time, I believe that the entire coalition also agrees that this must be done in a way that I just indicated on the basis of the three keys that I put down quite firmly here: is it fair, can people experience it and what does it mean in everyday life for people? I was going to go through with that. The campaign and all kinds of other opportunities will provide an opportunity for this. So you will hear me about this, as I have done in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u65	It's really historic what just happened here in the House of Representatives. I would like to ask what the Prime Minister thinks of that. I understand that yesterday he was still longer than usual in the discussions with the coalition partners, Mr Buma, Mr Segers and Mr Jetten, to discuss all the hassle caused by Mr Dijkhoff. And what just happened? What the hell just happened and what do you think of that? Mr Buma is standing on this and is going to lecture Mr Dijkhoff again through you. In addition, Mr Segers is standing up and he is doing exactly the same. Mr Jetten thinks, "God damn it, there it goes again." And he gets up to keep his wiggle one more time. How much evidence do you need to accept that your cabinet and your coalition are falling apart from misery? They can't even control it after what they did to each other yesterday. Here they just show that your cabinet is at an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u66	I remember an earlier cabinet that I was allowed to run, the first cabinet, in which group chairmen regularly asked what they thought of the last opening in the media from a party that tolerated that cabinet. That happened almost weekly. Well, then I used to say, "We're not from marzipan." That cabinet actually went well until that toleration at the moment Supreme decided not to take responsibility in one of the most serious crises in our history. Until then, however, it actually went quite well, despite the fact that group chairmen of the other two parties asked me to regularly reflect on the actions of that group chairman of that tolerating party. So I don't see any problem with that at all. We're not made of sugar, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u67	The Prime Minister can stay happy, but the biggest issue of our time is tackling climate change, but we have just seen that his cabinet, his coalition, seems loose. It seems as if they are no longer in agreement to tackle this great challenge. I also have no confidence that this cabinet will be locked up alone in order to come up with solutions. That is why I say again, because there was no response to this question: if the PBL comes with figures, I do not want the Cabinet to study them first and that they are discussed in the cockpit meeting. Once the cabinet has these figures, they must be shared not only with the coalition, but also with the opposition. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u68	I honestly do not share that somewhat apocalyptic sketch of the state of this coalition. Look, you know what's really bad? A coalition in which everything is always "papered" and massaged away. This was a very serious discussion yesterday. I said all that when we walked out of the coalition talks. You can see that here in Question Time. What's against that? So you keep a cabinet and a coalition strong; that you can also ask each other if things happen that others say: what have you done? That makes sense, doesn't it? I don't have a problem with that. To be honest, that also went well in the first cabinet until, again, someone ran away. Then there is Mr Klaver's question. I answered that question. That's the real downside that I'm not the trade minister. That's not to be an asshole or hide from it, but I can't see what the arrangements and the rules are with those planning agencies and when they come. I haven't prepared that now. That's the downside if you ask me and not the trade minister. We don't have a presidential system. I am always inclined to ask that person to do so when there are oral questions in the area of a fellow minister or secretary of state. That went spectacularly wrong, just after or before the summer when it was about the dividend tax. This is where the case was shut down and I had to come. I thought at the time, "I'm not gonna do that again." So if Mr Klaver asks, I'll come myself. But this is the downside: I don't have that kind of thing ready. You really should discuss that with the trade minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u69	This moment I'm gonna mark. This is the first time that the Prime Minister has had to defend his coalition by saying that there is nothing going on, that it is actually very healthy and this is the way we deal with each other. The last time he did that, it was with regiments and they all left. I'm worried about this. It rumbles in the coalition on an important issue such as tackling climate change. In addition, the Prime Minister did not give an answer at all here. He's hiding behind commonplaces. The question I am asking is not about agreements with the Planning Bureau, which is not about anything from a trade minister, but about the main line of policy. This is about the relationship between the Lower House and the Cabinet. I am asking whether the Prime Minister is prepared to take the time at the moment when those figures become available, and I am not asking when not to take the time to talk about them first in the cockpit meeting, but to share them with the House of Representatives so that the debate can take place here. The Prime Minister can answer that question fine, but more than fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u70	Let me refer you to the previous answer. I don't know what appointments have been made with these agencies and what experience is in dealing with those agencies. That's gotta be a professional minister. Thank you. And also a very good new year!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-2.u71	Nice to meet you. Thank you. Before we move on to the next question, I shall suspend for one minute.
