ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 34650, the Proposal for a Law of Members Bergkamp, Van den Hul and Özütok amending the General Law on Equal Treatment to clarify the prohibition of unauthorized discrimination on grounds of sex, i.e. the Law clarifying legal status of transgender persons and intersex persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u2	I shall resume the debate for the second time on the part of the Chamber and give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. If you look at the beautiful ceiling of this First Chamberroom, you will see paintings with many little angels. These so-called cherubims have been considered sexless in terms of gender identity for centuries. These angels conjure up a comparison with the year 1453, when in the palaces of Constantinople, mostly the family of angels was debated, while in the meantime the Islamic conquerors stood at the gates of the city. Something similar is happening here. While discussing the concept of "sex" by unnecessarily adding terms such as "gender expression" and "gender identity" to the law, the existential threats to this target group are neglected. As outlined in the first term, the anti-lhbti violence comes mainly from the Islamic side. Transgenders are threatened and abused because their existence from Islam is not accepted. Gays can no longer walk hand in hand on the street, out of fear of aggression by often people with a migration background, as expressed last week by a Mr. Jetten. The action plan on security and lhbti, mentioned by the Minister, is based on a motion from April last year. Now comes the plan, only a year later. This must then enter into force, while action is urgently needed. Take down the street thugs in the neighborhoods, close mosques and stop Islamic mass immigration. That is much more effective for a safe future of lhbti in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the point that the proposers base themselves on a call from the College of Human Rights. This college does not have any formal competence. It is completely undesirable to codify the non-binding opinions of this legal-activist club along this path. The same applies to the aforementioned European Commissioner for Human Rights. Reference is also made to the Jokjakarta Declaration. Principles 22 and 23 of this Declaration emphasise the right to apply for asylum on the basis of gender identity. Can the Minister exclude that the implication of the General Law on equal treatment on this point could lead to a stronger ground for obtaining asylum in the Netherlands? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The applicants themselves state in the explanatory memorandum: "There is therefore no question that discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity or gender expression is not allowed." In short, this proposal is superfluous and a show for the stage. The PVV will therefore not be able to support it. Mr President, that is the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u4	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u5	Mr President, thank you. I can be brief. We would like to thank the authors and the Minister for the comprehensive answer. We have no further questions. As indicated in the first deadline, we are very positive about the proposal. We look forward to the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Vink. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin. Oh, no, he skipped. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I told you, everybody seems to want to watch football. It won't be up to me, but I still have a few points. We talked about whether this law is necessary. I found the answers both from the proposers and the Minister very convincing. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this law is urgently needed. I also tell you that the SP will vote for this. However, this change of law alone is not enough. Let this be a first step towards a good future for all those who need our support. I have two further questions or comments. They went over the waiting lists and about getting the sex tag out of the passport. The Minister said that the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has a quarter of an hour maker who would come up with plans to visibly change the waiting time. I would very much like to hear from her that we will be kept informed. The same applies to the assertion she made about the moments when ticking the gender mark is unnecessary. The government would make an effort to counter that. I would like to hear from her that we hear about this from time to time. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the initiators, the proposers, for their reply. As far as my group is concerned, the questions have been answered. It is good that from both the social and legal perspective and the more international legal perspective, what this bill is going to do is really seen from all sides and how it contributes to a better position of people who feel discriminated against on their gender identity. As far as I am concerned, the answer was extremely complete. I would also like to thank the Minister for her efforts to prevent unnecessary registration, and I would also like to translate it into my own words, in order to stretch it a little bit, so that we can assess what is still feasible in Europe in order to give this issue its place in the anti-discrimination directives. I understand that this could provoke resistance in different countries. I believe that the anti-discrimination directive is never finished in Europe, and is a permanent aspect that could also be called for from the Netherlands. If this law can help steer Europe on a better path, then that is an additional profit. My group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal. But you won't be surprised, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u11	The pace is unparalleled, Madam President. And I'm gonna have to keep up with all that. Thanks for the word. And thank you for the comprehensive answers I received. I have a few small additions and points I would like to share with you. First of all, I owe Mr Lintmeijer a good answer on what is an ideology. I looked it up just so I could put it better. One of the definitions is: "a set of ideas about man, about human relations and the organization of society, which lives within a social group, in particular a political party, a thinking movement or a social class." Well, I think we can discuss that for hours, but at the rate we're in now, I don't know if that's the intention. I heard very well what was said this afternoon about the Jogjakarta principles. They result from internationally binding agreements on human rights and so on. That's right, they flow from that. But they're not. A 2008 motion was referred to in which the House of Representatives called on the government to endorse and promote the principles of Jogjakarta. The petitioners like to hold on to that statement. But experience has shown that an adopted motion does not mean that the government succeeds in all cases. And even if that were the case, I still agree with the responses of the authors themselves to my written questions, namely that the principles of Jogjakarta are not strictly legally binding. It's been noted. The Nashville Declaration was also discussed. I am now quoting what has been said this afternoon. The beginning of my quote is as follows. "That also within the churches there is a discussion about the positioning of lhbti-persons has been revealed in the discussions around the Nashville Declaration. In so far as that statement and its aftermath have contributed positively, it may be that it has proved that the vast majority of the churches did not feel affected by the message in that statement. The government has also pointed out here, after answering the parliamentary questions, the dialogue that is taking place within many churches to give lhbti individuals a place within the church." End of quote. This suggests that churches that cling to the classical Christian notions about sexuality and marriage would not offer space. That's what I'd like to argue with force. No one is rejected in the church, but members of the congregation are accompanied pastorally and shepherdly. But on the basis of what God has put into His good creation. That applies to all members of the congregation. And then when you struggle with your identity, for example, the church is around it. I have just looked up what the authors of the Nashville Declaration themselves said about it after a turbulent week. They indicate that the statement was wrongly read as an anti-gay document. "We regret this," they say, "not for nothing we wrote in our afterword that those who recognize a homosexual orientation in themselves may know to have a full place in the Christian church." They say, "In that epiphany we have been partly guilty of the fact that pastoral care has often been inadequate for them." I think that's a point that the churches should be attracted and attracted. Mr. Chairman. Another aspect I would like to draw attention to is the issue of continuity. That has been well and firmly responded to, including in the interruptions I had with Mrs Bergkamp. The Minister has also gone into this. Then I let it run for a while, but I'm still a little curious as to how things should be with people who are doing this and I'm formulating it as carefully as possible after some time they think they've ever made a wrong decision, by positioning certain feelings so strongly that they've made a choice, for example towards registration in the register, in the passport or something like that. Is it a choice for your whole life? Or, if it turns out that again is a consistent and firm desire, can you change your mind again? That is the question I have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u12	I would like to ask Mr Schalk: if there is such a doubt, and it would be that at another stage in your life you are experiencing a different experience, is that really not an understatement of the need for this bill? That in all stages of your life in which you want to express your identity, that is always possible, even if that experience or view would change? I am not going to do that ideology debate again with you, but I would still like to make this point. For me, your argument is more an understatement of the importance of this law than a counter-argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u13	Yeah, you can see that. But I've just been trying to make it clear that I'm afraid of the fluid... I referred to it as "brittle," and we discussed it with each other for a moment. I find it difficult to find a good word, but I have tried to make it clear that I think the subject we are talking about is a very delicate subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u14	Fragile?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u15	Yes, fragile... That is a very nice attempt, Madam President. But what matters to me is that if you can make such a legal choice with something as subjective as your experience or feeling, it can go back and forth very easily. That's what I've been trying to argue. That is something other than underlining the importance of this law, in my humble opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u16	Mr President, for my group, the word 'brittle' is now linked to small vases, but you may have meant that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u17	I'm with the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u18	That's a very steady vase. For me, the essence of this law is that in all phases of your life, regardless of the view you have or whatever identity you then wish to convey, you have the space to carry it out. In that sense, my interruption was also meant to indicate that you can also see that as an argument before this law. Because then there is no obstacle to feeling what you feel and to be able to experience in all openness what you experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u19	Thank you for this beautiful question, again. I've been trying to make it clear that, if, at every stage of your life, you could apparently make a different experience or choice, that could be complicated in legal terms. That's the point I've been trying to make. I would like to thank the authors in advance for the response they may give, and also the Minister in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiators and the Minister for answering the questions. Maybe it has something to do with March 8, but it's girlpower behind the table here. You will not be surprised that I am going to advise my group to vote in favour of this bill next week. Let it be an important first step in a broad emancipation of the lhbti community! Perhaps 12 March, next week's voting day, could be used as a sort of milestone to reflect annually on the importance of this development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u22	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of new things have also been brought forward tonight. One of them attracted my attention and I would like to present it to the proposers once again in asking form. This concerns the consequences of this bill, if that becomes law, for sport. In sport there are many reasons to distinguish. There are also a lot of points on which a distinction is made, which we can all sum up with the word "fair play," as you did. You can also use the word "competition." In any case, there is this phenomenon. I believe that it is now well regulated in sport on the basis of private law, but also on the basis of international law. All kinds of difficult issues are well solved in and through sport itself. Not so long ago we had here a bill on how the government should or should not interfere with sport. We did not do that at the time. What I am wondering now is: if this law becomes law, are the sports associations suddenly exposed to the risk that they, much more than hitherto, are acting in violation of the law? I would regret that. My question to you is: how does that work out? A second point is that I asked for publicity to be sought in areas other than this law alone. I'm gonna need a partial revision of that. I would like to congratulate the Minister and you for saying yes to that. In itself, it was still to be expected that you would say that. But I see on the NOS-Journaal on our iPad in a big article that the First Chamber is working on this right now. In fact, Sid van der Linden expects it to come through easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u24	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u25	Sure, I think about that all the time, and that's why I'm off the hook now. But I hope you will continue to seek the publicity, because I think it serves a good cause. Whether it will be as soon as Sid van der Linden tells us, I doubt it. I think it's a matter of a long way and a lot of steps towards a goal that I think we all share here. It is a common goal, but it is only about the way forward. I shall propose to my group that we vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the authors of this amendment and to the Minister for the explanation of the questions put. Johan Derksen found the transition from Boudewijn to Bo Van Spilbeeck not normal. We do not think it is normal for intersex and transgender individuals to be bullied, belittled and discriminated against. I understand, according to the NOS-Journaal, that the majority of this house feels the same. We therefore wholeheartedly support the adaptation of the Awgb and would like to thank Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok for their good work. Today we make it clear that anyone who does not feel comfortable in the standard booth "man" or "woman" is protected by the law and has the same rights as anyone else. After today, we hope that intersex and transgender individuals will feel strengthened to participate fully in school, in the workplace, in the sports canteen and in the neighborhood and that society will make that easier for them and not more difficult. Finally. We hope that after today they will report or report more often if they are faced with discrimination. We look forward to welcoming as a society the personalities and talents of all these people. No one will be surprised that the Party for the Animals is behind them as an emancipation movement. That is why we will wholeheartedly support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I'll take a look at the petitioners and at the minister. Are you able to answer directly? That's the case. You have the floor, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the senators for their second term contribution on behalf of my co-initiators. A number of comments have been made and a few questions asked. With your permission, Mr President, I would like to respond to that, followed by a final word. Mr Schalk of the SGP also raised a number of issues. We think it is important to stress that pastoral care is a very important one. We have also experienced this in the conversations we have had with transgender and intersex subjects with a religious background. In particular, pastoral care can play a very important role. I am therefore pleased that Mr Schalk has stressed this once again. Thank you for that. When it comes to the continuum, I think that is a question for the Minister: what are the consequences, looking at other laws and regulations and not so much at us? We have indicated in our input that, as far as we are concerned, it is up to the people themselves how they feel and how they express it. Our contribution has been to explicate the Awgb and to commit ourselves to equal treatment. Mr Schouwenaar of the VVD also asked a question about sport. Let me be clear about this: our law does not fundamentally change the law. I have indicated, on behalf of the co-initiators, that it is a subject of all times. I indicated that it was a theme even in the 1950s and that discussions were being held up to now. It is up to the international sports organisations to implement it themselves and to lay down rules. I have also indicated in my contribution that, when it comes to amateur sport, associations have the right of freedom of association to make a distinction, looking at membership requirements, in so far as there is a relationship with the objective. But our law doesn't fundamentally change that. Various subjects have also been ticked, including by Mr Van Hattem. He asked a question about the action plan, looking at the minister, and gave colour to what the PVV thinks, looking at the Jogjakarta principles and the High Commissioner. But that is more a coloring of the PVV than a question to us as initiators. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, these were the questions we were asked. That leaves me with a final word. On 1 September 1994, the General Law on Equal Treatment came into force in our country. The Awgb has always been and will remain a lively law. We have chosen to allow the discrimination of transgender and intersex individuals to lead this adjustment of the Awgb 25 years later. We have a good reason for that. When we look at people who do not comply with the standard picture of men or women, there is often discrimination and exclusion. The purpose of our law is to make it inclusive. In the first term, I also noticed that there is a great deal of understanding for the fact that our law can contribute to increasing that awareness. Let us be clear, when it comes to the willingness to report, there are not so many people who dare to take the step to the college or the judge, although we know from research how often there is discrimination. That would be the added value of our law: increasing awareness but also increasing legal certainty. And we're not alone in that. There are several international organisations that have made this known in the past and are still doing so. It is also an international trend that equal treatment legislation is also being adapted. We are therefore also supported by the call from international organisations, to which we referred earlier. But more importantly, because there is a need for it. People are asking for it. I also think it is important to point out the COC, Transgender Network Netherlands and the Dutch Network Intersex/DSD Foundation, whose representatives are also present here in the public gallery and by whom we feel supported. I would like to thank them on behalf of the initiators from this place for raising this issue, of this important social problem. They put it on the map. Thank you also for the commitment throughout the journey. And we performed it with all our love. I would also like to thank our supporters, whose names I will not mention now. They have also played a very important role in bringing this law forward until now in the Upper Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We are all different, but equal treatment is for everyone, regardless of one's gender identity, gender expression and gender traits. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u30	We don't actually allow applause in the First Chamber. Anyway, it happened and it's quiet again. Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. And whatever she says, you can't clap, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u31	Thank you, Mr President. After these lovely closing words, still a few answers from my side. A further three questions have been asked to the government. Mrs Meijer asked the more procedural question as to whether the Chamber could be kept informed about the quartermaster in the care set up by my colleague from VWS, and how work is being done to prevent unnecessary sex registration. Of course, I will pass this wish on to my colleagues who are going to pass it on, but in advance I would dare to say that there is no objection. So we're gonna have to take care of that. In doing so, I will also do what Mr Lintmeijer asked me to do, because he also mentioned unnecessary registration. Mr Lintmeijer also made a comment on the EU. I did say something about it in the first period. We are talking about this kind of thing in the EU and we are working on the rules. It can sometimes be difficult, but that does not relieve us of the duty to bring up and discuss these kinds of subjects and to make them available for discussion. Who knows, it is at some point that it can count on more support, even in the Member States where this is not yet the case. If I understand Mr Van Hattem correctly, he asks whether this change of law will lead to a stronger ground for asylum in the Netherlands. This is a subject that is really only side by side with this point. I would almost say that it has very little to do with the debate we are having here today. I would nevertheless like to tell him that gender identity is already a factor that can be considered when applying for asylum. I listen to Mr Van Hattem in such a way that he would rather not see it, but he is. And this proposal does nothing about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u32	You could wait, Minister, for Mr. Van Hattem to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u33	Sure, I'm sorry, but the question has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u34	Of course, we prefer to have as few asylum applications as possible in the Netherlands, but I am concerned about the following. It is said all the time that this law would have no material effect. However, I do want to rule out the possibility of introducing this law into asylum procedures in order to allow those Jogjakarta principles to work in those procedures. Otherwise, we are going to apply a certain codification which, as far as I am concerned, is totally undesirable and which will also create an additional ground for asylum. I'd like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u35	Genderidity is a ground for asylum. This proposal does not change anything. The principles of Jogjakarta are not binding but authoritative. That is how the facts are, and this proposal does not change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u36	No, the proposal may not change that, in the sense that it is already a ground, but it may provide a further explicit basis for bringing it up. However, if it is already clear that it is not, I would like to have recorded here for the report that we can conclude that this ground will not be invoked and that it was not the intention of the legislator to create an additional ground for asylum in the Netherlands in terms of the future and the history of law. I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u37	My response is the response I just gave, namely that it is already a ground and that therefore this proposal does not change the fact that gender identity is already a basis for applying for asylum. Mr Schalk asked whether it would be possible to make a choice in the next moment during someone's life. I would like to repeat what I just said. It is again a deeply rooted inner conviction. So it's not that simple. People won't be ice creaming in one night. It's about something deep in people, about their identity. But the answer to the question is: it could be. Mr. Chairman. Those were the substantive questions I had left. I made a number of commitments. I think I have given all the responses that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-13.u39	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next week on the bill, telling the authors that they are very welcome to be here to see the outcome of the vote.
