ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Law on Penalty and Protecting, Room 35122. I welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and give the floor to Mr Markuszower as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Markuszower as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr President. With a lot of drum roll, with a lot of noise and a lot of tough language, the coalition today presents a new law. Ministers Dekker and Grapperhaus, today Dekker, are showing their muscles today, at least that's the picture. However, reality is very different. There is not a tough bill in front of it, but a proposal that the criminals of the Netherlands will still lick their fingers with. With Grapperhaus and Dekker on Justice and Security, the VVD and the CDA, it was a feast for the criminals, it is a feast for the criminals and it remains a feast for the criminals. Let me illustrate that with a case before the judge today. Today the judge makes a ruling in the Gerson F. case, the horrible rapist of a young student in Rotterdam. He almost killed her, too. The student barely survived. You'd say the D.A. would go hard on this and demand it to the maximum, because these kinds of animals don't belong in society and nobody wants these kinds of monsters in society. So you'd say, "The D.A.'s gonna demand a minimum of 12 years." For the PVV this is still far too little, but well, the public prosecutor could demand at least twelve years. But none of that, Minister Dekker's employees are demanding only seven years. And those terrible lame judges in the Netherlands are going to end up here with their final verdict. Under the current law, Gerson F., that rapist I was just talking about, if he actually gets that seven years in jail, is already five years out of prison and probably walks around the crime scene in five years and a month, where he can rape and maybe even kill new women. On the basis of the new law before us today, Gerson F. would also be free after five years. 56 pages of explanatory statement and proud spokesmen of the VVD and the CDA who show off this bill like peacocks, looking for the media to boast about how hard they are doing. But Gerson F. is under the current law after five years outside and also under the new law. So let no one be happy today! So don't let anyone act tough! Grapperhaus and Dekker remain the favourites of the Dutch rapists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u4	I wonder whether Mr Markuszower has actually read the many pages of the explanatory statement. Doesn't it say quite clearly that if someone behaves exemplary in the prison system, someone might be able to get out of prison sooner? At the moment, someone is automatically released. That is, of course, a thorn in our eye. That's the change of course. I leave the interpretation of the judges to the PVV, but when a judge imposes a sentence, it is in principle served. Did Mr Markuszower notice this when he read the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u5	I have noticed that if you behave like a criminal in the Netherlands today, what should actually be the norm; you and I should always behave well and we don't reward each other for that after you raped someone first, then under this new bill you get two years penalty discount from the minister. I noticed that. You can rape a woman, you can kill a woman, you can bite your nails for five years, act like you're being good, and then you're gonna rape again under this new bill. So, yeah, I read the pleading and I wasn't impressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u6	Before anyone who listens to this, thinks this story is true, I still feel the need to nuance it. It's not like someone's gonna get the opportunity to rape again after that. We're trying to prevent someone who's been in prison for a long time, not with a garbage bag from day one on the other side of the gate to find out for themselves. That is precisely what makes people dangerous. That is exactly why there is also criticism of this law. People sit much longer and turn out much more gradually. That is the essence of this law. If the PVV is really honest and says that it is not far enough, fine, but even the PVV should acknowledge that everything is aimed at ensuring that people gradually come out so that someone is safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u7	What the PVV and the CDA or the VVD and the PVV continue to differ is exactly what Mrs Van Toorenburg just said in her interruption: "if criminals stay in a cell for a long time." Gerson F.'s only gonna sit down for five years. If the judge is going to impose seven years and he still gets two years off, he gets out after five years. If Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA thinks so for a long time, we simply have our biggest disagreement. The PVV believes that five years for almost killing a woman and completely raping a young student is not long enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u8	He's almost asking a question. I am not going to rule on a sentence to be imposed by a judge who is dealing with the case today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u9	Everyone in this room is always hiding behind the judges and behind that awfully lame D.A.'s office. As a result, Dutch criminals stay in prison for a very short time, even if this law were to be passed. Now, a little history. Until 2008, the Netherlands had the Early Release Act. Under this law, a convicted person was eligible for early release if he had two thirds of his prison sentence on it. That release was not subject to any conditions. In 2008, this early release was replaced by the current legislation, the conditional release law, because the automatic release of convicted persons after two thirds of their prison sentence had to end. The PVV was the only group to vote against this bill at the time. That wasn't for nothing. Because we are back here now because the 2008 legislation was not good. According to the Law on conditional release, prison sentences are still served for only two thirds. Only in the case of high, high, high exceptions will prisoners be sentenced to full prison sentences. Often, the only condition is that a prisoner does not again commit a criminal offence. How crazy do you want it, anyway? In recent years, the PVV has always been saying: stop giving penal discounts to criminals. What is also important to make clear to the Netherlands is that criminals are not in prison at all, when the judge says they have to be in prison. From half of their time in prison, criminals are eligible for leave, including with this bill. When the Dutch hear the judge's verdict, they think: nice, he's stuck. But those criminals aren't trapped at all. Secretary Dekker's just giving them leave of absence. A few more examples to better map the law. For example, a person who imposes a 12-year prison sentence gets a rarity in the Netherlands because most of the time the weak judges in the Netherlands give very low sentences and are now released after nine years. On the basis of the new bill, that's after ten years. Instead of a three-year discount, a serious, dangerous criminal, who may be "fake" in prison for a moment, still gets a two-year discount. This may be slightly less disgusting than the current legislation, but for the PVV this is still unacceptable. One more example. Michael Panhuis, we know him. In 2012, he was sentenced by the Court to only 12 years in prison. Only twelve years, while he had gruesomely raped two young girls and even the blind could see it was dangerous to put him in jail so short. On the basis of this law, he would not be eligible for conditional release in 2020 but in 2022. So let us not pretend that this law makes the Netherlands much safer. Also under this law the monster Panhuis would have been released early. A very dangerous monster like Panhuis does not deserve a penalty discount at all, not even a little penalty discount and certainly not a two-year penalty discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u10	I also need to come back to this, because I think it is important that we give a proper presentation of things. The problems in this situation have been that someone has not been imposed on tbs. We have taken measures to ensure that this person would have been given TBs. The problem was that this person had not behaved in prison and nevertheless came out. So he probably wouldn't have gotten that penalty discount if you had actually looked into the course of his detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u11	I've been digging. There were a lot of problems with the Panhuis case. One of the problems was indeed that he had not behaved well at all in detention, but everyone said that he had behaved well. The whole sector is lying and cheating and saying: this prisoner has behaved well. I said in that debate: as long as we do not tackle culture in this sector, even prisoners who behave badly will continue to receive the label of good behavior. We're not going to solve that at all with this new law. That is the law and the reality is the whole sector. The warden in that prison lied. He said: Panhuis behaved well, even though he had behaved badly. That warden wasn't fired. He got promoted. He's watching the clinic in Den Dolder right now. It's been promoted! This law is not going to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr Markuszower's story is not correct. 'Cause what's been done here? This man would be released after a short time without being treated for his disorder. In that context, it was wrongly said that there was less going on with him in order to be able to treat him for what has been going on. That went wrong, absolutely. But let us not now create an image here as if this person were still blindly released earlier. That is precisely what this law is aimed at, to ensure that someone's behavior counts, is controlled and that the person does not end up being released earlier, but, more importantly, that this person had been given a tbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u13	The fact is that if Panhuis, or the Panhuizen of this world, can fool things in prison for a few years, they still qualify for two years penalty. There is simply no one in the Netherlands, except perhaps some of the parties in this Chamber, who can explain that. And want to explain that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u14	I think it's a lame story, if I'm honest, if the PVV is only able to say what it doesn't like, while it's currently in the place where the penalty is determined. My question to Mr Markuszower is therefore what his alternative is. Then we can talk about Mr Panhuis, for my part, or about the matter he has just referred to. What's his alternative? That alternative could be to prolong the penalties. In that case, my next question is what is Mr Markuszower doing at the time of the end of that sentence, on 1 January 2040? What does he do? What's his alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u15	I have only been in the Chamber for two years, but I think the honourable Member of the Christian Union is even a little shorter, so I do not blame him for not having prepared the alternatives I have already mentioned in this Chamber extensively in debates. I'll dig for myself. Over the last two years, a number of alternatives have been proposed, both by our group and by me personally, on behalf of the group. A major alternative is, of course, the minimum penalty. We cannot rely on judges to apply the correct penalties and the current legislation also ensures that maximum penalties are too low. The PVV wants to introduce very high minimum penalties, so that judges and the Public Prosecutor are not allowed to punish so low. That's one. At the PVV, one of these Panhouses might be in prison for 60 years, or maybe for life for the rape of two young girls. And then, of course, the problem is solved at once, apart from the fact that such a person costs a lot of taxpayers' money. But, yeah, you have to do something with monsters. So that's the first alternative. A second alternative is that the PVV and I, too, have advocated in last year's budget treatment, i.e. the choice of criminal officers, prosecutors and even the College of Attorneys General, I say by heart, so that the penalty is also increased. I am convinced that if the Dutch people are allowed to choose prosecutors and judges, the judges will no longer be so alien and prosecutors will no longer dare to claim so low. It is unbelievable that Minister Dekker's staff are demanding only seven years against Gerson F., while they were allowed to demand a minimum of twelve years. The first penalty discount is thus already applied to the prosecution's request. Five years the person concerned has already received a present from Minister Dekker and in good behaviour he gets another two years as a gift. Gerson F. gets a seven-year penalty discount from Secretary Dekker for nothing. For a brutal rape.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u16	I am genuinely interested in alternatives and good proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u17	I just did two of those. What does Mr Drost think of these two proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u18	I haven't heard them so far, because my point...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u19	No, that's lame. You ask me about alternatives, on which I give alternatives. Then I ask what you think of these alternatives and you say: I have not heard them. Of course you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u20	Can Mr Drost just say what he wanted to say? I call Mr Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u21	The proposals put forward by Mr Markuszower here, I understand, but my point is: whatever we choose, whatever measure of penalty or minimum penalty, there will be a day when the person concerned will be released. That is what this debate is about. How do we deal with that? How are we going to regulate this phase-out and how are we going to ensure that when someone is released they do not pose a risk to society? Those alternatives and the answers to those questions I do not hear Mr Markuszower give so far. Maybe he'll use the rest of his speech for all the space, I'd say, or he'll come back to it later, but that's what my question was about. My question was not so much about the length of the sentence, but about the moment someone gets out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u22	Yes, you've made that clear. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u23	That length of sentence is an essential part of keeping society safe. As long as a rapist or a killer is in jail, he can't kill and rape. That's a big part of it. At the end of my speaking time I have another suggestion. But all that doesn't make so much sense. You have to keep those criminals in jail for a long time, maybe even for life. And of course, we can talk about reintegration as a criminal stealing some licorice. I would like to have very long discussions with you about this. But most of all I am concerned that we are keeping the biggest criminals in the Netherlands, the murderers, the rapists, the people who put the daughters of the Netherlands at risk every day, in prison for a very long time, hopefully for life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u24	I have decided to respond when the PVV says things in the Chamber that apert are incorrect. We need to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u25	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u26	Let us now say that the penalty requirement for the person now in court was not merely seven years, but seven years with tbs and coercion. I'm committed to naming that. So it wasn't just seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u27	No, it wasn't. There was also TBs, and that's either the Walibi or the Duinrell for the rapist. That's a real party. He gets free food, if he wants free accommodation and a lot of leave, even though they don't usually come back from it. Indeed, please, let us not talk about tbs today, because then I have to rename all these leave steps. But then the Netherlands also knows that tbs is actually synonymous with "very much engaged." And during these engagements, a lot of things go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u28	We all know that the leader of Mr Markuszower's party is a big fan of the Efteling. But to be a member of the political group about telling fairy tales here, I think it goes a little far. If TBs were presented as Walibi, I'd really say, "Hey, why don't you take a look at one of those TBs clinics?" It's not that cozy. We are still debating it and there are things that are not going well, but let's not make it a big fairytale story here. That doesn't help the debate at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u29	Then you have made this point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u30	But the worst part is that people who are in TBs can definitely go to Walibi, Duinrell and the Efteling when they are on leave. Let us indeed have the TBs discussion when there is a TBs debate. But don't think they won't get into the Efteling in that place where little kids play.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u31	If the PVV Group were also interested in the facts instead of in fairy tales,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u32	Don't they go on leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u33	... instead of just in fairy tales, they'd see that the whole TBS system leads to much better relapse rates. Tbs helps prevent new crime better than people but simply lock it with a "door shut, door open." Of course things go wrong. But the honest story is that tbs leads to less recidivism and thus less chance of repeating the things that we both hate. Let's just tell this honest story here and not Eftelingspookjes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u34	I do not think the Efteling and Walibi will be happy with this discussion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u35	Let us have the debate on TBs in detail in a real TBs debate. But what has just been said must all prove true. The recidivism rate is indeed slightly lower, slightly lower. But it is not 0%; I think it is still around 25%. And if you're going to analyze all those numbers properly, of course, it's just the question if it's really lower. It seems lower, but is it lower because tbs have been imposed or is it lower because such a criminal has often spent longer time in prison? Because you don't just get tbs in the Netherlands. You barely get jail time in the Netherlands. So you really must have done something to get into the TBs. Let's look at it in more detail later, but my analysis is that it's not necessarily because of the TBs that that relapse rate is lower, but because of the relatively long prison sentence that a criminal served before entering the TBs. It's getting a little technical. A criminal who is once in the tbs is therefore also a bit older and of course it is also known that people are often men when they are older, less violent. So I wonder if the lower relapse rate is due to the TBs. If you analyze everything properly and talk to the right criminologist, I think the figure is lower despite the TBs and not because of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u36	Proceed, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u37	Another example: the left-wing terrorist Volkert van der Graaf. In 2003, he was sentenced to 18 years in prison. He got paroled in 2014 thank you for that, VVD. But under this law, even Volkert van der Graaf would have been released early in 2018. So terrorists like Volkert van der Graaf also receive a discount from the VVD and the CDA on the prison sentence imposed on them. Should we all be so delighted with this bill? Should we be so happy about this? I don't think so. This bill is only a tiny step in the right direction compared to the current legislation, but everything has been said about it. Still, the biggest criminals are released two years before the end of their prison sentence, when they should have been in jail and could have been in jail. Why does this minister continue to reward criminals who have been sentenced to unconditional prison sentences by the judge? That is my question to the Minister today. Why is this question two? Why is the Minister sending a proposal to the Chamber which still allows criminals to leave prison earlier? With other penalties, like fines, you don't see that forgiveness or reward, do you? The PVV wants to delete this is again a proposal for the Christian Union and the entire Law on conditional release, as laid down in Articles 15a to 15l of the Code of Criminal Law. A common argument...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u38	I can also see that Mrs Van Toorenburg is at the interrupting microphone, but finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u39	Okay, the chairman decides. A widely heard argument is that judges will anticipate the abolition of conditional release and thus possibly impose even lower penalties when awarding the penalty. This is a real problem, but it can be solved. As I said in an interruption, the PVV is in favour of introducing minimum penalties. The freedom that judges now have to keep the most dangerous criminals locked up for a very short period of time must be limited. With the introduction of very high minimum penalties, the problem of judges who may impose lower penalties has been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u40	It is a real proposal to abolish conditional release, but I would like to hear from the PVV how people are prepared for their freedom. What steps does the PVV have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u41	In another debate last week, Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me about the same question. I'll give you about the same answer. There are several possibilities. First of all, you could argue for double penalties, double penalties for a recidivist. Someone who gets out of jail and goes back to prison could punish you twice as hard. You'll spend a lot of time with us at 120 years in jail if you follow the PVV line. That's proposal one. Another proposal I mentioned last time. I refer back to that. There is quite something to say to start a pursuit, tracking and hunting process after an imposed prison sentence, in which the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands are pursued permanently, until their death, for example with bands. They can cut them, too, so let's not overdo it. What's their name again? Single tyres: that's what I think you call them. You can set up a notification obligation, daily, or a two-day or four-day notification obligation. You can put police force on someone like that to follow him. You can ban the area and maintain it. That's often a problem, too. You can do a lot with the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands after their 60-year prison sentence. But first we have to agree that these criminals are in jail for a long time. A 24-year-old convict who raped a girl and spent 30 or 40 years in jail is 50, 60, 70 if he gets out. It is a lot less dangerous than the 24 samples that are now being released.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u42	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u43	We're gonna "hunt monsters."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u45	It's a bizarre word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u46	I wish you'd do it! I'm not gonna do it. I wish you'd do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr Markuszower, Mrs Van Toorenburg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u48	Here's what's important. If you want to keep people under surveillance, if you want to make sure that they can't move to a particular place, that they have a location ban, that they have a location offer, that they are, as the proposal states, obliged to move, you must have a title of deprivation of liberty. This means that the PVV has no alternative, because we now have that title.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u49	Let's make it, that new title.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u50	It's called parole. That's serving a punishment in a different way. Only then can you make demands. The PVV is acting like we can just take away someone's freedom. We live in a rule of law. A judge will have to decide that. That's what they do along this road. Mr Markuszower knows this as well as I do. He can't say that without a title, we'll be able to hunt someone down or control them. This is a restriction of freedom that a judge will be referring to, and that is precisely what is included in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u51	Sure, we can make those titles together. You and I can work on that together, no problem. But the difference is I want a title for that hunting, as I call it, for life. So, after a prison sentence of 40, 50, 60 years, follow if necessary. You're talking about us following someone during the release or penalty discount. That's a two-year period. Now let's use our common sense. Surely there is no one in the Netherlands who believes that a scary killer or rapist in those two years in which there is now a discount is completely healing from all his dangers? That's impossible, isn't it? But now we're pretending we are. Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA sells the real fable to the Netherlands. That is the real fairy tale: that in two years time people will return from the period of conditional release without danger. A penalty discount does not lead to better behaviour, Mrs Van Toorenburg, but leads to great misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr Van Weyenberg. Excuse me, Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u53	The PVV doesn't actually believe in this Chamber, doesn't believe in the Public Prosecutor's Office, doesn't believe in the quality of justice...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u54	I believe in very long prison sentences!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr. Markuszower, calm down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u56	The PVV Group believes in chasing monsters. The story is one big dream flight. I would really like to ask the PVV Group to come up with a realistic proposal for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u57	The PVV believes in very long penalties, because that is the only guarantee that the Netherlands is safe. If someone like Michael Panhuis raped two very young girls at a young age; he was also young himself, then you just know that that can't be cured. Tbs isn't gonna fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u58	I suggest you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u59	Prison time isn't gonna solve that. Detention phasering isn't gonna fix that. Such a person should be in prison for a long, lifelong time. That keeps the Netherlands safe. That's what the PVV believes. The PVV also says that if people have been in prison for a very long time and are still a danger after that prison sentence, we as a Chamber must, of course, talk about it. I don't have to believe in this room. I don't have to believe in judges. I don't have to believe in the district attorney either. I have to believe in good laws. We don't have one right now. We must only believe in a good law that guarantees long sentences for the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands. We don't have to believe in each other. We have to believe in a good law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u60	All right, Mr. Van Wijngaarden...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u61	We must believe in God, the SGP would say, and we must believe in good laws. Otherwise, we don't have to believe in anything, but we have to know. We must have guarantees in life and not believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u62	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u63	I don't know yet, but maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u64	I think that for the clarity of this debate and also for all those who are watching, it is right and fair that the PVV here simply acknowledges that it does not believe in this Chamber, does not believe in...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u65	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u66	...the justice system, doesn't believe in the Public Prosecutor's Office...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u67	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u68	... and actually only believes in himself and in the utopian solutions mentioned here. Hunting and chasing are animals, not humans. The proposals that are being made here simply do not go far enough, and so does Mr Markuszower himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr. Markuszower...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u70	I didn't say all those quotes. I have said that we have no obligation to believe each other. We can believe each other. I didn't say what I believe or don't believe, so you don't have to put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u72	I have said that as MPs, we must believe in just laws. A law is just as a dangerous criminal, like Michael Panhuis... You call him a man, but he's acted beastly three times. He raped two young girls and killed and raped another girl. That's beastly behavior. Then the question is whether we have just laws for such monsters. I say, no, we don't have any righteous laws, because someone like that was just out there. Now he's stuck again, but he was just walking around free after beastly behavior. In the new law that is before us today, such a person also walks around with a penalty discount. That penalty discount will not make that person better, but it will make society more unsafe. That's my argument. If the VVD makes sensible proposals, I would certainly believe them, but she has to come up with them first. Criminals belong in prison. Once in prison, convicted criminals just have to behave properly. Good behavior must be the norm. By giving a penalty reduction of up to two years to convicted criminals, we as a government send out a very wrong signal, both to society and to prisoners. The fact that prisoners should behave properly during detention is only normal. Bad behavior during detention should, on the contrary, be subject to additional penalties. Convicted criminals must be locked up for as long as possible. If a criminal renegades, I just told you, give him a double sentence. One final comment. Research has shown that convicted criminals who make another mistake during their sentence often get away with it. In theory, they could be punished by withdrawing probationary leave, but in practice they often remain at large. One in three convicted persons who make a mistake during Dekker's freedoms does not have to serve his full sentence. In all likelihood, the Minister's measures to solve this problem will not work either, but I would like to hear it if this is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks. It's not your maiden speech, is it? I think you've already had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u74	I had it last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u75	I've missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u76	So it's okay to interrupt. This isn't an invitation, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u77	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Living in a safe country. That is what we all want here, from left to right. I expect there will be no debate on this today. We do differ on the road, however, how we arrive at a safe society. Let this debate be about that just now. GroenLinks advocates an effective approach to crime. This calls for a good mix of prevention and repression. Punishments are there to make the perpetrator pay, deter potential offenders, protect society and prevent repetition. That is precisely why my group is very concerned about this bill. Before I explain those concerns, there are some positive notes, because they are there. It is a good thing that the Minister intends to start re-socialisation and reintegration as early as possible with this bill. It is also a good thing that engagements are linked to reintegration goals, because from being in prison alone no one gets better. Society certainly doesn't, because one day someone gets out. It is in the interests of security that ex-cons go straight after their release. This requires a good mix of penance and socialisation. I do have a number of questions about this. What is the Minister going to do to involve prisoners themselves as early as possible in their rehabilitation plans? Too often we hear that prisoners do not even know that they have a reintegration plan, let alone that they understand it or feel an intrinsic motivation to implement it. A number of specific questions to the Minister on this matter. How is the prisoner's involvement in drawing up and updating his or her own plan secured? Do inmates have insight into their own reintegration plans? Is the information written down in such a way that the data subject understands it? Does this law provide sufficient basis to share data with carers, volunteers, caregivers and others, if the inmate so wishes? Finally, can a prisoner take the data outside, so out of the penitentiary institution? What happens to the data after the detention? Is there still access for the person concerned, and if so, in what form? In itself, it is also a good starting point for prisoners to earn their leave and other relative freedoms. For many of the offenders, as they have more to lose, they will also feel more motivation to continue to walk the straight path. But not everyone can make such a rational assessment. How does that work for inmates with mental impairment or mental impairment? How do they receive sufficient support to meet the conditions? Are they getting special support or are they just the ones who stay inside the longest? I'd like a response from the Minister. Now to the core of our concerns. On paper, it sounds wonderful: more focus on socialisation and reintegration. GroenLinks is also very much in favour of this, but we fear that this bill will do exactly the opposite in practice. Preemptive measures such as mentorgsprek are already too often included by lack of capacity in penitentiary institutions. In its 2018 accountability review, the General Court concludes that there is insufficient time for essential tasks such as reception and guidance of confused and psychologically disturbed persons. That is why the next question to the Minister. Is there sufficient human resources to put the proposed more personalised approach into practice, and if not, what will the Minister do about it? At the moment there are pilots from the Judicial Institutions and Reclassing Netherlands to shape the rehabilitation process together during the detention. Is there anything the Minister can say about these pilots? If the results are positive, does he intend to scale up these pilots to all penitentiary institutions and provide them with structural funding? I'd like a response. I am considering a motion on this point. Then there is another concern, a major concern for my group. Maximising conditional release by two years means that parole organisations and other bodies such as the ggz in the long term will have to do their important work in much shorter time. For someone who has been punished for 18 years, parole organisations and other bodies have now six years to work on a safe return to society. This proposal will reduce this to two years. Do parole organisations have the capacity to work that fast? After all, we are talking about the most complex cases. I'd like a response from the Minister. The main argument put forward by the Minister for the restriction of conditional release is the lack of social support. That is a legitimate concern, let there be no mistake about it. Each victim is too many, and I also understand very well that atrocious crimes lead to social unrest, anger and incomprehension. That is why we must do everything we can to tackle crime and prevent it from happening again. But let's do it with a cool head, by looking at the facts and how we can prevent repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u79	But is it not a fact, explained in detail in the explanatory memorandum, that in practice no one gets more than two years of guidance at all? Isn't it just the practice of parole that someone is followed intensively for two years and then hardly any more, and that this is, in fact, almost a codification of the practice of parole?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u80	I have read the explanatory memorandum differently. For I believe that this is in line with the average duration of conditional release. To be honest, I do not think the average duration is the most relevant point. Because the people who now have a longer conditional release than two years form a relatively small group. The average does not necessarily say anything about that group, but it is the most complex cases that need full support. We understand from the letter from the parole organisations that they need that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u81	But then the other is often forgotten for convenience, namely that the people who are most dangerous can receive lifelong supervision. So that doesn't save a lot at all. Some tens a year might have been followed a little longer in the current situation, and for this the Act serves long-term supervision. So I do not understand very well where the criticism is, because the practice teaches that it is not longer than two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u82	Well, I don't know if I'd call it criticism. I myself called it "care." We are concerned, because we have also spoken with the Council on justice and with the parole organisations and we have received letters. They say they need those six years. As I said in my speech, the most complex cases require this time. The fact that in practice it may not always be possible to deliver could also have to do with capacity problems in these organisations. I'm asking the Minister to do the same. But we fear that this reduction can lead to problems in practice, especially in the most complex cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u84	As I said, we need to look at the facts and see how we can prevent repetition. Penitentiary programmes and conditional release play an indispensable role in the safe return of prisoners in society. This law restricts the possibility and duration of this. I am therefore afraid that in practice this law could lead to higher rates of repetition. I don't think any of us want that here. So although I share the concern about public acceptance, I am also very concerned about this bill. On the basis of the explanatory statement and the note accompanying the report, it still feels like a horse's tool, which threatens to miss out on its purpose. GroenLinks fears that this bill will not lead to more, but less socialisation. I would have preferred the Minister's proposals to make the Netherlands really safer. That is much more effective to increase the support for conditional release. I have therefore tabled two amendments on this point. The amendment in part No. 12 calls for the conditional release to be maintained at a maximum of one third of the total sentence and for the amendment in part No. 13 to preserve the penitentiary programs. I would also like to point out, for colleagues and also for Mrs Van Toorenburg, who has just asked me a number of questions about this, the evaluation carried out by Erasmus University. It concludes that the current system of conditional release is broadly functioning well and serves the purpose of reintegration and re-socialisation. They also come with suggestions for improvement, which my group likes to look at. But they did not propose to significantly limit the duration of the conditional release, as the Minister suggests here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u85	But one of the important suggestions was just to take a look at the overlap between the penitentiary programs and the vi, and it just brings you back. That was about one of the most concrete things the university said: it's weird that you have both a penitentiary program with much less supervision and the vi with a lot of supervision. You're just gonna bring that back. You didn't read that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u86	I've certainly read it well, but what the minister is doing here feels like a horse med. That's what I said before. The minister limits both the conditional release and he removes the penitentiary programs for parolees. This means, in practice, that the parole authorities can only work on a safe return when the parole is released at the end of their sentence and not already in prison. That is what we are very concerned about. Hence these two amendments to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u87	No, because a penitentiary program is being implemented in a very different way than is currently suggested. At the moment, the penitentiary program applies. Someone's out of prison custody. Then you get a conditional release, where there will be more supervision of someone who has been outside the whole time. Science says about that: you shouldn't do that, that combination is a bit weird; do something about it. The Minister stops that combination, which makes sense, but you just bring it back. Isn't it crazy to let someone out first with virtually no supervision and then keep more supervision at the time he's free?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u88	The Minister is now tying it both down. He says: the parole goes to two years and we delete the penitentiary programs for people...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u89	On advice!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u90	Well, I didn't read the report on limiting parole. If that's what it says, I'd love to hear it. I have read that the current system is broadly functioning, but that there are suggestions for improvement. That's what we're looking at. I shall come back to that later in my speech. But the research doesn't say that you have to severely restrict both the conditional release and the penitentiary program for that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u91	Your first amendment is an answer to that scientific research, but your second amendment is exactly the opposite, because you are taking back what is said: do not do so. If I were you, I would have the amendment to part No. 13 to withdraw, for that is really not wise, and certainly not that which is advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u92	However, do you support the amendment in respect of item No. 12? Then I'd be happy to consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u93	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u94	I'm trying to operate pragmatically. If you shorten the conditional release to two years, you will need a bigger role for the penitentiary programs in order to work on a safe return. If the VI is maintained at one third and we can agree on it today, then I am quite prepared to withdraw the amendment on penitentiary programmes. But I do want Mrs Van Toorenburg's undertaking that she will take the amendment in part. 12 supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u95	I think this is very special. You have just begun, but you know exactly how to negotiate amendments. Very handsome!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u96	I want to make the law better, most of all, so I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u97	Very good. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u98	Indeed, congratulations to the negotiating tactics that are being carried out here in public. That is also good for democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u99	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u100	Innovative. Fine. We can challenge each other when it comes to what exactly is in that Erasmus University report, but I think we are also in the Chamber because we can find some of it ourselves. Does GroenLinks really think it is a good idea to say to people after two thirds of their punishment: unless you really make it very furious, is it just over? 'Cause that's what we're in right now. You are now proposing to maintain it per amendment, so you seem to think that is a good idea. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u101	Not the way you put it. I think this is a misrepresentation. Maybe this is how you look at it and we have different realities. I have also spoken with judges and I have read the Council's letter for the case law well. They indicate that judges make a gross net weighting. It is not that they first determine the measure of punishment and then say: a third of it can be served freely. No, they're looking at how long they want someone behind bars. Next, a third is often added in order to work on a safe return. I'd approach it the other way around. A person who is punished for 18 years is a judge who, after weighing all his interests, says: that person should be in custody for 12 years and then there should be a period of six years in order to work on a safe return to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mr. Van Wijngaarden, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u103	It is good that we all speak with judges, but we do not live in a state of justice but in a rule of law. In a rule of law, it is also good to talk to people in the country. When you hear those people, they think it is inexplicable, and the VVD also thinks that after two thirds of your sentence you are just back on the street and that if you don't get it over with, it's just over. This proposal changes a bit, but you obviously do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u104	Firstly, I wonder to what extent this proposal will change this. I would have liked to say something about this later in my speech in the explanatory statement, but I can also do so now, which is a good justification of how the restriction of conditional release meets the lack of public support. In our view, there is no proper analysis of the lack of public support in the explanatory memorandum. But perhaps more importantly, if there is a lack of social support at birthday parties, there are often lively discussions about penalties for serious criminals and that they would be released too early; I understand that sentiment very well, then it is our job as MPs but also the duty of the Minister for Legal Protection to explain to society why we are doing this. Parole isn't a gift for criminals. No, it's a way to work on preventing repetition. It's a way to work towards a safe return to society. So I think it is also our job, if there is a lack of public support and there is a debate about it, to explain why we are doing this and not to say: oh, we are going to restrict it or abolish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u105	Could the honourable Member from GroenLinks perhaps explain why in that two-year discount a miracle or so could be done with the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands, so that they are suddenly no longer dangerous after these two years? What do you think happens in those two years, which means that that monster in the criminal suddenly wouldn't be a monster anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u106	In the group with the most complex cases, the people who now have a conditional release of more than two years are persistent criminals. You're hoping to convince them that it's better for them to shape their lives differently in the future. And if that doesn't work, the conditional release can of course also be reversed. But there is also a group of people with, for example, mental illness or mental impairment. Those people sometimes need help, they need guidance. It does not benefit society if those people are released and are actually just as bad off and go back to the same bad path outside the cell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u107	You can treat criminals, especially if they have mental disorders or are ill, right? Why does it have to be outside the cell where the Netherlands is so much more at risk? Why don't you plead with me to treat sick people, okay, mentally ill is also sick in prison? Why does it always have to be with a penalty discount?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u108	You're assuming an or-or. 'Cause you can do it and-and do it. I'd argue for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u109	You're pleading for a penalty discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u110	No, I plead for two things. I'd argue that we're already in jail. That is why I have also asked the Minister about the ongoing pilots of the Judicial Institutions and parole organisations to start resocialisation in the cell. Because that seems to be well in line with the objectives of this law. So you start in jail. But in addition, you need that gradual return, that conditional release, to gradually allow someone to get used to freedom, and to be able to properly monitor whether someone is complying with the conditions. If not, it'll just be reversed. That's what's happening now. There are colleagues who assume that there is some sort of automatism in that conditional release. This is not evident from the discussions I have had and also from the Erasmus University research. And even now, a conditional release can be reversed when someone fails to comply with the conditions. So you should do it and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u111	But for the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands, it doesn't match the conditions for new crime, often a new rape or a new murder. I think that GroenLinks is taking a great deal of risk with this speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr Markuszower may think so. I agree with research and the practice in the Netherlands which is working reasonably well. I will not deny that there are also points of improvement, but we believe that this generally works well. I also say in the direction of Mr Markuszower: he calls it a penalty discount, I do not call it a penalty discount. I call it a period on top of the penalty, to work on gradual return. But even if you see it as a penalty discount, society will be safer for it than putting someone with a garbage bag on the street when he gets out of jail, without a home, without a job and without his entire social network. No one gets better, and then the risk of recurrence is much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the two amendments in detail. The first is concerned with keeping conditional release at one third of the total sentence and the second is concerned with maintaining penitentiary programmes. My group is convinced that with these amendments, we are giving staff from penitentiary institutions and parole organisations more room to do what the legislative proposal aims to do, namely to work as quickly and effectively as possible on resocialisation and integration. I have just said it in the interrupting debate: conditional release is not a favour to prisoners. That's the image that sometimes wants to emerge, but it's not. It is an effective way to work towards a safer society. I would like to emphasise this, because if there is a lack of public support or questions are asked about our penal system, then I also think it is our job as parliamentarians to give a real picture of what we are doing in our criminal law and why we are doing the things we are doing. I would also ask the Minister for Legal Protection to make an effort to do so. It is not a gift to prisoners; it is a way to make our society safer. Reading the explanatory statement, I also get the feeling that this bill might serve the underbelly or at least try to meet the lack of public support in this way, but that the Minister does not really come up with realistic alternatives to shortening conditional release. In the written round, my group also asked questions about this. We asked for a scientific basis for the statement that the current execution of prison sentences is inadequate, as stated in the explanatory statement. The Minister replied extensively to this, for which he thanked, but in his answers he referred in particular to studies such as the recent evaluation study carried out by Erasmus University Rotterdam, which shows that the current system is doing what it should do, namely contributing to resocialisation and reintegration. According to the researchers, the current regime is adequately designed for these objectives, reintegration and special prevention. And the practice works together agencies to deliver customized work within the law. According to the research, there is no question of automation in granting conditional release. I would like to emphasise that once again. There is sometimes a picture that there would be an automatism, that prisoners would automatically be freed after two thirds of their sentence, but it turns out there is no question of it. There are improvements, though. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u115	Yeah, me too, but maybe you could finish your sentence first. Or was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u116	Yeah, it was pretty good. I'll go to the improvement points after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u117	Okay. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u118	I am curious to see what GroenLinks thinks about a prisoner's abuse, serious abuse of a staff member, and then just being released, because the rules are like that. Don't you think that's pretty automatic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u119	I find it difficult to judge an individual case, but as I have already said, it is okay to link engaged behavior to behavior, as this bill aims to do with the necessary concerns about certain groups that may not be able to make such a rational assessment, but in itself I think we can still agree that this is a good part of the law. I'm not criticizing all parts of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u120	No, but here a bit of the picture is created that it is not at all so automatic that people are being released conditionally, while practice teaches that it is. Scientists may be able to look at that differently, but when you have daily contact with people from the prison system, you know that it's actually almost automatic and they don't even start writing everything down anymore, because it doesn't pay off anyway. Even if you throw boiling soup in the face of a staff member, who's left with burns forever, you'll just be released on parole, because that's no reason to keep you in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u121	But then that would be something we should be looking at. I find it a little strange that Mrs Van Toorenburg says: researchers can say what they want. If I'm correct, they've carried out an evaluation on our behalf. I'm guessing they took a good look at that. I spoke to a judge earlier this week. He also told me about cases in which the conditional release was simply limited or reversed at the time of that. If this is not enough in practice, then we should look at it, but I do not think that this is an argument for limiting conditional release to a third party and not an argument for saying that it is always an automatism, because there are indeed examples where conditional release has been reversed or limited. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the improvement points. The Erasmus University researchers did make a number of suggestions for improvement in the same evaluation. I find these suggestions for improvement crazy enough but partly reflected in the legislative proposal, but the Minister is proposing to radically change the system. I don't think the researchers suggested that. They had not proposed to limit conditional release to two years. I therefore also have a number of questions for the Minister. Why does the Minister opt for a maximum of two years instead of, for example, one and a half or three years? What is the basis for that? I'd like a response. And is the Minister prepared to look again at the improvement proposals in the evaluation of Erasmus University, particularly as regards the establishment of a legal provision for the release of a convicted person whose conditional release starts before the judgment is final? I'd like a response from the Minister. I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get back to some of our concerns. There's a risk of calculating behavior, so parole organizations warn. Long-term punishments could choose to serve the sentence, the two-year conditional release, which regulates the law, so that they would then be completely out of government control. Society is not going to be safer if they do and come straight out of jail with a garbage bag on the street, without a home and without a job. This is a great concern of my group. To sum up on conditional release: my group is concerned that the amendment of the law on this point could lead to less than more protection. As I said earlier, there is a reason why the Council of Justice and parole organisations are critical. I also have doubts about the Minister's assumptions in the explanatory statement. It doesn't help that he subjugates these but limited. The position in the explanatory statement raises questions for my group. With the current system of conditional release, does the Netherlands really deviate from the neighbouring countries? Are our prison sentences really so much lower than in other countries? Are we knocking back figures giving rise to the austerity of the conditional release scheme? It is disappointing that the Minister does not support anywhere in concrete terms that his proposal to change conditional release is better or even more successful in keeping ex-convicts in line in any way. It is also regrettable that the importance of the conditional release scheme is not or hardly recognised in the explanatory memorandum. But it is particularly painful that the Minister and a number of colleagues here are feeding images of the current regime that are not entirely in line with reality. Because like I said, parole isn't automatism right now. If there is reason to do so, the prosecution may postpone or block the application of the VI through the court. As far as my group is concerned, that role also remains with the courts. I therefore have the amendment to item No. 10, which ensures that the decision not to grant, postpone or revoke a conditional release remains with the court. In practice, such a decision amounts to deprivation of liberty. For the purposes of legal protection, a conditional judicial test is appropriate instead of a marginal test. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who hopes that this bill will lead to higher penalties might come home from a cold carnival. I have already said it in an interrupting debate: judges make a gross net weighting in determining the penalty measure. If they want someone behind bars for 12 years, they will add six years of conditional release under the current law. If this bill is passed, it will change to twelve plus two. After all, the maximum conditional release is two years and they still want that convicted person to have 12 years behind bars. So it could lead to lower penalties. So when I was reading the law, I was wondering if the title wasn't a little misleading. Shouldn't we call the law "lower punishments and less protection"? "Lighter penalties" because the penalty is likely to be lower and "less protection" because, as I said earlier, parole organisations and other bodies will have to work in a much shorter time to ensure safe return to society and because it is feared that calculating detainees will not use conditional release. In view of our concerns, I have tabled an amendment, the amendment to item No. 9, which provides for an evaluation of the law after five years and ten years. This will give us a better insight into the effects of the law, if it is adopted. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister to formulate some clear key performance indicators on which he will monitor the progress of re-socialisation and reintegration. Now there are no dates and facts on these points in the explanatory memorandum, but hopefully this proposal will change that. After all, the legislative proposal aims to start re-socialisation and reintegration as early as possible. As has been said, this is part of the law that my group wholeheartedly supports, but it is important that we also monitor to what extent we are achieving that goal and where there are bottlenecks, for example when it comes to the capacity of staff in penitentiary institutions, for example in parole organisations. Indicators I am thinking of are, for example, recurrent figures, social participation of ex-convicts and satisfaction and workload among employees of penitentiary institutions and probation. However, I would like to leave it to the Minister and his team to come up with a more detailed proposal on this point, but these are some of our group's suggestions. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a conclusion. Thus, although there are good intentions in the law regarding re-socialization and reintegration, we wonder how realistic they are when conditional release and penitentiary programmes are limited. GroenLinks advocates a good balance between retaliation, deterrent and preventing crime. We fear that this bill will make the Netherlands more unsafe rather than safer, but I would like to give the Minister a chance to convince me otherwise today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u122	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u123	Combating relapses is preventing victims. I say this in virtually every debate on probation, the prison system and in general on the reintegration of prisoners into society, but of course it is. All proposals aimed at promoting the proper reintegration of detainees, thereby reducing them again and promoting security, can count on the full attention of the SP, as well as this proposal. Eleven years ago, the early release, already in existence since 1886, was changed to conditional release; Mr Markuszower said so. The SP strongly supported this change. I also remember talking about this change in the House of Representatives. Once granted early release could not be revoked, even if the ex-con committed a criminal offence. That sounds absurd, but that was just the practice for years. That also says a lot about the conditional release system, a system that we have only been using for about ten years, but that feels like we've never had anything else. A system that also works, the independent researchers of Erasmus University also conclude. But now the Minister for Legal Protection comes up with a law which, in my opinion, seeks to make unwise changes to the system of conditional release. The other part of that law, about the detention phase, sounds a lot more sensible, but I also have some questions about that. I'm starting with an e-mail from an involved paramedic I got this week, about Alfred, just because this law is about these people. "Alfred would after an isd-measure and a stay in another p.i. He was released, and nothing had been arranged for him yet. The case manager of the p.i. Only 27 days before his release did Alfred's file face. She couldn't do anything for him then. And there he stood at the bus stop, strongly lost weight, confused and a tad aggressive. No one has any idea what medication Alfred needs right now, but in the meantime, he's out on the street. He was not helped in any way during detention to solve his addiction problem, despite his request. He has received all kinds of medication, but nothing has been arranged for the period after his detention: no accommodation, no guidance, no medical care, no daily spending, nothing at all." Mr. Chairman. This law is about it, but actually I just can't understand that this is still happening. Because this story isn't on its own. For at least ten years now, we have been calling on the Minister to pay attention to the importance of careful detention, in which people also get help for problems such as addiction. That's in the best interest of all of us. And a careful return to society, with the necessary help, is also in the interests of the security of all of us. I had really hoped that we had left behind the time when people with a blue bag were put on the street, and so nothing was arranged. But I'm afraid it isn't. Sometimes this is because municipalities do not take up their duties of aftercare, and sometimes also because of carelessness in detention or by others. So, regardless of whether it is wise to change the conditional release regime, I very much wonder whether and, if so, how this bill now helps people like Alfred, who are having a hard time in society and are also burdening others with their criminal offences, to deal with these problems. That is precisely in the interests of society's security. Before I expose the pain points for the SP of this law, I'll start with some positive points. They can certainly be found in this law, and I congratulate the Minister on that. For example, the aim is to work on reintegration from day one with detainees, which has been on the SP's wish list for a very long time and which this minister now intends to work on. There will also be a basis for sharing data on basic conditions of housing, income and care, something that is really necessary if one is to be able to become a full part of society again. This information can be exchanged between the penitentiary institution, the municipality and the probation for the purpose of drawing up the detention and reintegration plan. That's very good. It is also a good thing that information on a convicted person may be exchanged between the director of the establishment, the minister, the municipality, the probation, the prosecutor and the police if there is a risk that the convicted person will again commit a serious violence or sexual offence. And if there is a real risk, these parties are even obliged to exchange data. That is right, although I am very curious on this point as to how this will be done in practice. There will be an additional special condition for conditional release, namely the obligation to move from a particular area, the obligation to move. I think that a lot of victims and relatives will like the idea of a prisoner being forced to stay away from them as a condition that he or she should move away. The SP is also satisfied that the system of ZBIs, the very limited security facilities, is not completely abolished. Keeping the restricted secure areas open is a good thing, because the relapse rates of establishments with a limited or very limited level of security are substantially lower than those of closed establishments, thus proving their added value. The SP has always advocated this, especially with the CDA; I saw Mrs Van Toorenburg and others watching. In the written round, the SP also asked whether, following a rejected request for conditional release, a prisoner could submit a further request if he had demonstrated in the meantime that his conduct justifies a conditional release. This is now made possible by a letter of amendment, which still allows a prisoner to keep an eye on vi and thus work, with that stick behind the door that we consider so important, on a gradual return to society, with an approach aimed at preventing repeat crime. Over the years, we've rigged up a complicated system. I can see how that goes: we make something up, we want customization, and then a system like that gets a little complicated at some point. But it is a system that nevertheless functions, the Erasmus University concluded. However, the question to the Minister as to whether our system, which is in itself complicated, is not problematic. For example, how many different titles can the parole board monitor on its own? I think there are more than 20 of them. Is this system still understandable? What impact does this have on bureaucracy and administrative burdens? Many of the prison staff and parole staff we are talking to say that they are already suffering a great deal. Because time that needs to be spent on administration cannot be spent on the people. And security is ultimately human work. How is the Minister going to ensure that the essentially good plans for more tailor-made work do not lead to even more administration which leaves staff less time for that important contact with the inmates? The Minister's plans have a major role to play in the execution, in prisons, in parole and in the municipalities. That's very nice, but are these employees included in the decision-making process? Especially the staff in prisons have for years noticed that they are being decided on instead of with them. Doesn't that threaten to happen again? It can really be simple things that look good on paper, but are not feasible at all in practice, such as motivating treatment. It sounds beautiful and I really understand what that means, but staff hardly has time for it. There's not even enough staff to do something basic like cell inspections. Yesterday I received answers to written parliamentary questions and I read that this task is under pressure in a third of the establishments. Is there such a large number of staff that the staff has time to motivate themselves all day long, I ask the Minister? We now hear from staff: I'm on my own at 36 inmates. Do you think I could still be doing customization? That I can still motivate people to good behavior? What does the Minister think is necessary to ensure that the fine words on paper can actually be put into practice? The staff welcomes more contact with prisoners, but then it should also be possible and not imposed as an additional task. A prison employee says that as a case manager, he has a caseload of 50 inmates. You can count on how many times he sees these a month. What does the Minister do about it? How does he intend to relieve the workload? Another collaborator summarized all this in a striking way: they are constantly making new policies, but no one listens to us. Does the Minister see this problem? He can make very nice plans on paper, but they can only be successful if they can count on the support of the staff. How's he gonna get that support? I do have some tips for that. Start at the base. Staff must be well equipped and trained and their craftsmanship, practical knowledge and understanding must play a serious role in the necessary innovation processes. It would be good if there were sufficient resources for training and equipment. And not only sufficient resources, there must also be sufficient time to roast people at all so that they can actually be trained. With the current grids, that is often not possible. It would also be good if the Minister used the satisfaction, workload and own assessment of staff as a guide in the implementation of his plans and the measurements on the progress of the plans, which we are also discussing today. The workplace must also experience the space to think along and work on the changes that are needed. As has just been said, this really requires more budget and attention to work, burden relief and opportunities for training and training. What exactly is the Minister going to do about these things? The staff really do not feel heard and supported, and I think that should be a great concern of the Minister. Re-integration is well arranged on paper, but between the paper reality, as described by the Minister in his vision "To do justice, to offer opportunities" and the note on the report accompanying this bill, and on the other hand the real reality, there is unfortunately still a world of difference. The Minister makes nice promises with this bill, but the people in the workplace and I fear that they cannot be fulfilled. On paper, the reintegration of detainees has been well organised for years. Because of staff shortages, poor working conditions, high absenteeism, insecurity in the establishments and so on, there is sometimes far too little of it. Can the Minister reflect on this? Re-integration activities are part of the basic programme, says the Minister. Thus, inmates who are not in the plus program would also work on reintegration. But very specific: what exactly is happening? So what are these reintegration activities the Minister is talking about? What additional activities can prisoners earn by entering the plus programme? The penitentiary facility Schiphol doesn't even have work. There's no work room there, because there's no room for it. I think that's kind of ridiculous. Labour is a base. The SP considers it very important that prisoners work to get used to a day rhythm and learn that it is normal that you have to work to earn some money. We would like to see wages increased and prisoners obliged to pay back the damage they have done. Is it wise that we should amend Article 47 of the Penitentiary Principles Act? Now it says in that article that the prisoner has the right to participate in the work available in the establishment. The Minister's proposal is that prisoners may be given the opportunity to participate in the work available in the establishment. The fact that there are PIs today without work rooms is a good thing with the new wording of the law. But aren't we saying too much: well, work, see if it comes from it? I don't think that's what we should be radiating. Inmates are just supposed to work. Period. Get used to a day rhythm, learn to work for your money. Can't the Minister think of something smarter at that point? The already existing system of promotion and degradation, and later the strong emphasis in the legislative proposal on the need to earn leave, is in itself understandable. Negative behaviour must have consequences and earning rewards can be an effective incentive for actively working for good integration. But I ask the Minister to what extent this is feasible for everyone in prison. In this respect, I would like to draw your attention to the questions raised by GroenLinks. For example, in the case of people with learning difficulties, how is the Minister going to ensure that everyone really has a fair chance of getting into the plus programme? Does the Minister recognise that the distinction between the non-willers and the non-cannons is sometimes nuanced in practice? How is the Minister going to ensure that the non-cannons are not excluded? Is this method workable for the staff? People are put on red or green. If you're put on red, you've done badly and you're on green, you can have a little more. However, the staff indicates that this does not work at all. If you want to be strict and put people on red, it only bothers you as a staff. This is often caused by the frequent use of multiple cells. The first example. Someone has to stay in jail as a sanction, but it's a duo cell, so the door is open because otherwise the other can't get out either. Then the whole department's gonna be in jail with that convict who didn't behave well. That's exactly what you don't want, but it's the practice. Example two. Someone gets sanctioned and can't watch television anymore. He's also in a duo cell, so he's just watching TV with his cellmate. These aren't sanctions, are they? I would like a response from the Minister. Shouldn't we reconsider the frequent use of multiple cells? We're empty. In recent years, prisons have been closed. All reason to reduce multiple cell use. Apart from that, the Minister recently said that in response to my parliamentary questions, sanctions have been tightened, if there is contraband, violence against staff or between prisoners. I received that answer to my parliamentary questions yesterday. However, I also asked if we could get the sanction card sent. I'd like to see it, especially when it's sharpened. The Minister did not go into that, as it often happens that the question you are asking is only half answered. So can we receive it as a room? I'm very curious about that. The probation comes back in the penitentiary facilities if it's okay. That's good. This can then be in contact with the convicted person throughout the course before, during and after detention. But is it getting any better? A little money will be made available over the next three years, but can you build a new approach on non-structural money? Does this mean that the probation will eventually be in all p.i.You want to go back? If so, what period will that take place? The municipalities, of course, also have an important role to play in the reintegration and aftercare of prisoners. With this bill, the Minister wants to increase the exchange of information between authorities. Good news, but too often we see that in the municipality itself the policy is not really in order. We have known this since 2005, when aftercare has become a responsibility of the municipalities. Is it taking care of a community now, or is it security? Another example: we hear from practice: a study day on care in detention; I cannot go there as a municipal official, because that cannot be written on the care and not on the security budget. In addition, there's p.i. until p.i. and from municipality to municipality can be large differences in the extent to which reintegration is regulated. You should be lucky to meet an ambitious mayor and a good prison director who cares about this. You can't do that, can you? Why is there no national policy? Is the Minister prepared to give this form? Then I'll come to parole. The minister says quite tough: hoppa, up to two years, and that's it. I'm wondering out loud what kind of misery this is gonna bring us. By maximizing that conditional release in two years, we have a shorter stick behind the door for those who now have much longer vi, the real serious criminals. These prisoners, however, need good, compelling and long-term preparation for return. It is precisely in the interests of society's security that the stick behind the door may be as long as possible. Again, parole is not a favor to the prisoner to be released under conditions? You could perhaps say that in the past of early release, but the present conditional release serves the security of all of us. I think that's the way we should see it. I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Isn't two years too short? This question was raised a moment ago. For example, the Court of Justice says that two years for long-term punishment is really too short to re-socialize. There is a period of five to seven years. Reclassification The Netherlands also says that around 25% of prisoners who go with vi show that a longer period than two years is desirable. According to the Council of State, the reduction in vi means that there is less time for good guidance. As a result, the proposal would not do enough justice to the importance of a good reintegration of long-term punishments. It increases the risk that precisely the toughest category of convicted persons will be released without meaningful guidance. I now quote the Council of State. The Reclassification states that the reduction of the vi-period creates unguided projectiles that are a much greater disaster for society than the present release. The Dutch Association of Criminal Attorneys also says that all investigations show that the shorter the escorts are, the more likely they are to go wrong again. And the Order of Lawyers points out that early release is not at all self-evident and that conditions are already attached to early release. That's all very serious criticism. That's not nothing. The question to the Minister is whether all the bodies I have just mentioned see it wrong. I would almost like to ask: is the minister so smart and the rest so stupid? There are examples or situations where two years of supervision will not be long enough. Will the Minister give an honest answer to that? Can he think of these examples or situations and how do we deal with them? I cannot imagine the Minister saying that in all cases two years is simply long enough. I'm very curious about that. One of the Minister's main arguments for maximizing the vi in two years is that he doesn't get an explanation. A minister who can't explain this? I would almost say: please give me a minister who can explain. In 2008, when early release went to conditional release, we had Minister Hirsch Ballin. He could explain it perfectly. Even the VVD ministers were able to explain this system perfectly afterwards. This minister says, however, that he will not be explained. In Belgium, France, Germany, England, Wales and all the countries, but apparently there are also ministers who explain it all to society. I find that remarkable. If the Minister really needs help to better explain the current conditional release, I would like to say to him: take a closer look at the proposal made by the SGP Group and the SP Group in the written round, namely that the judge in his sentence explains very simply from when the convicted person is eligible for conditional release, so that this is clear to the victims and next of kin and no surprise. Why doesn't the Minister see anything about this so far? I have co-signed Mr Van der Staaij's amendment on this point. One consequence of the Minister's system of maximizing the vi-period of two years is that this could indeed lead to lower penalties. After all, within the current system, the judge clearly sees the net custodial penalty to be imposed on the sentenced person. The judge therefore takes into account the part that the defendant will in any event be in detention, namely the time to the moment of conditional release. The Minister said in the written round that he trusts that the prosecutor and judge will take into account the intentions of the legislator. I wonder what exactly the Minister means by this. That the judges are now going to impose the same and, in fact, longer net custodial sentences? Why would judges do that? Because the minister wrote that down in the explanatory statement? What does the Minister base that on? Can the Minister back that up again? And another important point for my group. Is our monitoring system conclusive? Isn't anyone slipping through? Has any kind of supervision always been arranged? I don't think so. In order to be able to extend the probationary period, it is necessary that an inmate has at least a period of conditional release. Reclassification The Netherlands points out that they see, as in the implementation of the TBS scheme, that prisoners make a rational assessment. Their reasoning is that sometimes they prefer to serve an entire detention rather than run the risk of lifelong probation. That is not a theory; Reclassification Netherlands says that this is already happening in practice. At the moment they are still prisoners with a relatively short sentence, but precisely because the bill limits the period of conditional release to two years, Reclassification Netherlands assumes that this behavior will also be shown by a number of inmates who currently have a longer vi-period. This means that, because of their refusal to cooperate, these prisoners will no longer be eligible for vi and thus unguided and uncontrolled return to society, without any focus on risk management and behavioural change. So you get more ticking time bombs on the street. That is the truthful fear. The Dutch Association of Criminal Attorneys also considers the chance that criminals choose to stay inside to come out under supervision. That's downright worrying. How does the Minister see that? Not everyone has been imposed on a behavioral measure, have they? Not everyone has lifelong surveillance, right? Then you can't extend probation, can you? What exactly is this about? I would very much like this to be explained very clearly and clearly by the Minister, because this is really an important point. I also realize that it is not easy to come up with a final solution for this. If it were, I would have preferred to present it here today. I have considered various measures, for example by default, to put every prisoner who is released after a long sentence, whether it is a conditional release or not under supervision. But of course that also encounters objections. I can see that, too. The point is that we need to find a solution to a problem that already exists but is made worse by the Minister. There are more unguided projectiles, without being treated or supervised, without supervision on the streets. Can I have a comment on this? How will the Minister monitor how this is going to be done in the coming years and what can and will need to be improved? Two more questions, Mr President. With this bill, the State's Attorney's Office is given new duties. How much does this law lead to for the prosecution, according to the minister and according to the prosecutor himself? Is the State's Attorney's Office going to be fully compensated for this? If not, why not? We haven't done that many times in the past. The D.A. did get jobs, but it didn't get an extra budget for that. And is this job in better hands with the state's attorney's office than with the judge? If someone violates conditions, the judge now decides whether the convict should go back to jail and, if so, for how long. The Minister proposes that this decision be placed in full with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I wonder if that's wise. I sympathise with the amendment to item No. 10 from GroenLinks on this point. In recent weeks this law has been regularly referred to, for example, in the case of Volkert van der G. I'm not gonna talk about this case on its own. But the question raised by my group is why a person with conditional release is actually allowed to go abroad. Why should that be allowed? I have reread the Minister's letters and I still don't get it very well. The SP explicitly sees the conditional release as part of the sentence. Then it's crazy that someone could and could move abroad during the sentence, also because of the supervision of the parole board. If we're serious about that, I find it strange that someone should be allowed to move abroad. There's a possibility you'll have to re-arrest someone in case of violation of the terms. Then of course it doesn't help if someone is in which country I know a lot. Isn't it true that this bill doesn't change this current practice? Finally, Mr President. Combating relapses is preventing victims. This law has good elements aimed at a careful and good return to society. But this law, in my opinion, also has bad parts, which I fear will lead to higher recidivism. It will depend on the reply of the Minister, but also on the amendments and the motions, whether I will ultimately advise my group to vote for or against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u125	Madam President. Those who are punished must actually serve that sentence. This seems to be a sound starting point for the SGP Group. This is necessary in the context of retaliation as a criminal offence, but it is also necessary in order to satisfy the victim and society. Those who are currently subject to a sentence of 12 years, for example, will in practice be released more or less automatically after eight years. That is therefore four years earlier than could be expected on the basis of the judgment. Four years. You can see that this is contrary to the citizens' sense of justice. It came up today: you can all explain how the system works, but can't it be clearer? Can't it be better so you don't have to explain everything every time? The feeling keeps creeping people out that they're actually being fooled. One pretends that a much longer sentence is imposed, but it does not end up serving time. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, it is too easy to say that people simply have to serve their sentence and that any leave and any conditional release is by definition wrong. For it is also important that someone who has served his sentence be prepared for return to society. A certain gradual transition at the end of the custodial sentence, from 24 hours in prison to 24 hours in prison, can therefore serve precisely the protection of society. From both points of view, the SGP believes that the system of conditional release that we now know deserves tightening up. As far as we are concerned, this tightening-up should lead to a greater proportion of the sentence imposed being served. At the same time, we must keep in mind that this does not prevent the possibility of gradual return to society and its proper preparation. So, as often happens, it is about precision and a good balance. Mr. Chairman. I myself have tabled an own-initiative proposal to change the conditional release regime. In short, this proposal came down to the following. The conditional release is completely abolished. Instead, the judge may also impose a partially suspended sentence for longer sentences. The conditional part of penalties up to four years may last up to one year. In the case of penalties for more than four years, a maximum of one quarter of the sentence may be conditional. That part of the sentence may not exceed four years. We had that in preparation. In the meantime, the coalition agreement came. This also includes proposals for the adjustment of the conditional release scheme. That is the bill that we are discussing today and which was announced at the time. As far as the SGP Group is concerned, it is a step in the right direction. It certainly contains improvements compared to the current system of more or less automatic conditional release. In order not to complicate the legal process of this already complex matter unnecessarily, I have decided to postpone the examination of my proposal and to opt for the introduction of certain tightening-up of this bill. In doing so, I also legitimize my exuberant amendment to this bill. Before I go into those amendments, I have a question for the Minister. Why is he clinging to two legal systems? One with a partially suspended sentence, for sentences of up to four years, and another system for penalties of more than one year with conditional release. Are there no possibilities for further simplification and clarification? In fact, the Minister says that in the documents, in so many words. You can cut things like a penitentiary program, the parole sentence and the conditional release dogmatically neatly, but they come together in objective quite twistedly. For the simplicity and clarity of the system it would be better that there is only one model. This also prevents strange twists from happening over and over again. On page 35 of the note on the basis of the report, you can see how complicated such a flowchart looks and what strange effects the legal system might actually have on those two systems. For those who are to be punished for a total of four years must hope that they do not receive a short parole. For example, if he is subject to one month's probation and the rest is imposed unconditionally, that person is in total 47 months' imprisonment and one month's probation. If the same person receives a sentence of 48 months unconditionally, he is suddenly freed after 32 months. I don't know if this is possible for everyone, but you'll also find this in the papers and in the evaluation. For example, a confessed suspect, as a kind of favor, does not receive a very unconditional punishment, but a short-term sentence. However, due to the effect of conditional release, the confessing suspect may have to sit longer in practice than the one who does not confess and receives unconditional punishment. That sentence may be longer, but is again subject to parole. The evaluation gives concrete examples of this. It is too far-reaching to try to amend this now, so I have thought about what I could ask the Minister about it. I refer to the Dutch order of lawyers, who also points out the illogical consequences of both systems. Would the Minister, for the longer term, consider whether further simplification in this direction is possible? Could you, for example, integrate conditional release on the one hand and conditional detention on the other? With that, you could avoid weird twists that I just mentioned. Mr. Chairman. The SGP considers it to be a clear improvement that the period for which conditional release is possible can no longer be as severe, up to ten years. At the same time, this bill maintains the possibility of the prisoner being released in principle after two thirds of the sentence. Why is the Minister holding on to two-thirds? We ourselves have chosen that the conditional part should apply to a maximum of one quarter of the sentence. I realize there are no laws of Medes and Persians to choose one or the other. However, I would like to hear from the Minister, who wants a certain tightening up with this bill, why it has not been considered to tighten up on this point too. This could respond to the objections to the proposal, namely that in some cases the two-year period is very short. On the one hand, you could do that tightening. At the same time, on the other hand, you could sometimes make the two-year period possible again for a longer period, if that would serve reintegration. After this more fundamental part with the question of why you make the choices made in this bill, I now come to some less far-reaching points. They are in line with the legislative proposal that is now before us, but we see opportunities for improvements to the legislative proposal in these areas. We also have the question to the Minister on certain points: what is the situation and what is the best way to do that? In practical terms, I shall begin, just as I do, with a very important point for my group: let the verdict give more clarity to everyone who hears it, that is to say, for society and for the slaughter sacrifices. Because what does punishment mean? What's a judge gonna do now? Together with Mr Van Nispen, I have the amendment to item No. 14 in order to ask the judge to include in the judgment what, as it were, is the net penalty as a result of the vi scheme. The same applies to the possibility of a penitentiary program. It must be clear what it looks like in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u126	That sounds very sympathetic, but I'm struggling with it a little bit. I struggle with it, because on the one hand it gives the impression that you are freeing up quite automatically. That's my first question. My second question is: what rules? On the contrary, we want victims to be able to declare their protection interests in a number of years' time. So you don't know what that's gonna mean. In the most complicated case, you even have an advisory body, in which, as far as we are concerned, victim organisations must also be involved. How do we know that in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mrs Van Toorenburg has a point that you cannot quite know exactly about 'this will happen and not otherwise', because precisely that conditional release is not automatic and it is only a can-determine where you have to weigh whether or not that conditional release is made. What you can do is, therefore, we have that is formulated in such a way as to indicate for which part that conditional release can take place. So that's more than just getting it out of law or from brochures. The judgment itself shows what, in any case, is the unconditional penalty and for which part a conditional release can be made, of course, if all the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u128	Should you not then turn it around in the amendment and indicate for which part it is not possible at all? Because now you're giving the impression of when it starts, when you really can't say it, and you certainly don't know what requirements need to be met because victims still have a say. So I like the amendment, but I think it needs to be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u129	I'd like to be open to better formulations, very much. You notice it on a lot of points. When we find that there is still a gap somewhere, you notice that it is often technically quite twistedly complicated to shape it very precisely. I believe that Mr Van Nispen and I have responded to this by indicating what part one can benefit from, so it will not come but can come. If Mrs Van Toorenburg asks whether we could not turn this around, in the sense that you indicate for which part it does not in any case apply or for which part it applies in any case unconditional release, we are certainly open to looking at what is the best wording, but I am also in favour of the idea of giving more clarity in the judgment itself on this point. And that seems to me to be an important point of profit. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point. The calculating suspect has also come along a few walks during this legal treatment. On the basis of the proposal, it is possible that a suspect calculates whether he actually wants to qualify for conditional release. This conditional release means that all kinds of conditions can be imposed which may be valid for a lifetime. In the case of serious crimes in particular, therefore, it is possible that they do not find this attractive at all and say: if I do not opt for conditional release, I will make it very difficult or perhaps impossible to impose certain conditions or supervision on me, thereby avoiding these conditions or supervision. In answering the questions, the Minister puts this risk into perspective with the assumption that it will run loose and that it may be theoretical. To be honest, I wonder where it is already in the papers, where Reclassing Netherlands says it is a loophole in the law and where it has already emerged a few times during debates throughout the legal process. Those lawyers aren't crazy either. They think, "Hey, let's see what's going on with those loopholes in the law." My point is: because we talk about it for so long, the danger will only increase that it will be used in this way. If only it were one, it would still be one too many. So we'd like to cut off that escape route. There's a lot of ways to do that. Mr Kuik and I have opted for an amendment aimed at including an emergency valve in the judgment by including in such cases the possibility of at least imposing a behavioral measure; I am referring to Article 38z of the Code of Criminal Law. It is precisely because criminal law cannot be adjusted retroactively that we need to include a regulation in this legislative proposal. Here too: I like to give it for better. It really is a search for the best legal modality and the right hook, but in our opinion this really is the best way to cut off this escape route. Of course, I would also like to hear the Minister's reaction to this. It is also possible to avoid conditions via another route. From Reclassation The Netherlands, I understand that it is still the case that until the judgment is final, it is not possible to impose conditions on the date on which that conditional release would normally take effect, say the fictitious date of conditional release. This means that it may be possible for the form of appeal or cassation to be brought in order to avoid the conditions. We shouldn't accept that route. In the case of conditional penalties, the law provides for the possibility of declaring the conditions immediately enforceable. In the case of penalties for which conditional release is possible, that is not the case. I hear from the practice that emergency solutions, by means of a detour, are used to search for opportunities, often even effective, to impose conditions. But it's all a detour and a complicated route. Would the Minister also take a more specific look at this point and respond to it? Could we not include in the law the possibility of imposing conditions for the lifting of preventive detention in the case of a sentence for which conditional release is possible? I have been told that that would be the route through which you could also seal this escape route, cut off the pass, of course only in so far as conditions would otherwise be laid down and advise the Judicial Institutions and the Reclassification Service. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of simultaneous short sentences. If someone had been given two short unconditional sentences of one year, for example, he would be in prison for a total of two years. But the law says that these punishments must be carried out on a continuous basis and that the conditional release regime will apply to the whole sentence. This means that this convict is not released after two years, but after a year and four months. In the case of an earlier legislative proposal, we have already tabled an amendment to adapt it. Then we were referred to this bill. That is why we have retabled the proposal that the conditional release should only be calculated on those parts of the sentence that it was already in force. We would like to hear a response to the amendment on item No. 15. Madam President. If someone fails to comply with the conditions, the Public Prosecutor has the opportunity to revoke the conditional release. Especially when someone has committed a new criminal offence during the probationary period, we believe that the starting point should be the withdrawal of conditional release. The same applies to a person who does not comply with the special conditions. That is why we have tabled an amendment on item No. 16. Finally, an amendment on the penitentiary programme. At the moment, this participation is mainly linked to the conduct or otherwise of the inmate. We believe that it is important to take greater account of potential risks and the security of society and that this is reflected in the legislative text. That is why we have in the amendment to item No. 17 to ensure that the wording for the penitentiary programme is in line with the conditional release rules in this respect. Madam President. We see the bill as a step in the right direction. However, we do consider a number of tightening-up to be desirable, necessary. Only then will we get a proposal that does justice to the security of society as well as the credibility of criminal law and the prevention of recidivism. We look forward to a response from the Minister. The last thing I wanted to do was to remove a gap in my text. I came up with that because of Mr. Markuszower. In his contribution he dropped into a subtlety: Mr. Van der Staaij would say, the SGP would say "you must believe in God." Then I thought: yes indeed, I do have a very technical-legal story today. So I felt a little lacking in that. I would like to say one more thing about this, namely that faith in God also determines your human image. When I hear Mr Markuszower talking about all those monsters that we have to tame, I think: let's not just expect it from laws and measures, because they often don't change hearts. I have been in prisons with prison ministers who also put forward: yes, you are responsible for your actions and you may and you must be severely punished, but at the same time there is also a message for monsters that there is also a new life for them. Above all, I hope that this message can also be heard, including in prison. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u130	You want to respond to that, Mr. Markuszower? I thought it'd be a nice closure. Anyway, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u131	The lockdown was indeed nice, so I don't want to ruin it necessarily. I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP whether this argument means abandoning the old desire of the SGP to introduce the death penalty in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u132	That too is a good thing from Mr Markuszower, who is able to turn the debate around in such a way that he makes his own contribution at once as a little soft. For it is true that, for example, when it comes to Nuremberg trials, war criminals and terrorist crimes, the SGP has never, in principle, rejected the possibility of the death penalty. In fact, she said that the government would have the power to include this enormous punishment, which we can only talk about shudderly, in those cases. That's correct. It is good that Mr Markuszower is bringing that up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are perhaps discussing the most important law of this minister today. I speak in such great terms, because I am genuinely convinced that this will serve the credibility and legitimacy of our criminal law and thus support for it. After all, punishments must ultimately be served. Of course, that time must be spent usefully, but a third of which is almost automatically forgiven and half of which already offers substantial freedoms, sounds very tough, but is actually a bit of folly-squeeze. At the same time, this bill regulates much more than just the shortening of conditional release. Because the period of detention of a convicted person is changed, in the sense that you already value one's behavior from day one. The process of promoting and degrading is thus given more meaning. A prisoner can not only earn more activities, but also get real freedoms, such as leave and, ultimately, conditional release. The proposed system of this proposal is therefore, in fact, abandoning all these self-evident features. Good behavior is really rewarded and bad behavior has consequences. That's how we like it. Of course with an eye for vulnerable people, the non-cannons. Of course. I think that Mr Van Nispen has spoken very interesting words about this. But let us be clear: of course this bill also reaps criticism. There are people who take the view that leave and conditional release are already not fully automatic. However, my experience is a very different one. At the moment, it is quite a challenge to deny leave not to refuse a conditional release. People often don't even start. Unless the behavior has gone completely, but also completely. An inmate who has abused a staff member or a fellow inmate has nothing to fear even at this time. I know too many cases where this parole clause felt so unfair. It's a good thing it's over now. Then, of course, there are a lot of critics who say it provokes calculative behavior. I think that's always been the case. Inmates know more when they're back outside than they've read the house rules. I do not believe there, but I do not believe that prisoners will think at all: never mind, I will do my time. For no positive contribution will bring much more disadvantages: fewer activities, more in prison, no leave, no transfer to a more open setting, for which Mr Van Nispen and I have fought so hard, no work outside and no conditional release. They'll be fine, those guys who don't give a shit. But they're a problem, one way or another, whether they're serving their sentence or not. The prison system has not been easy in recent years: closure of penitentiary facilities, negative reports of drug smuggling and parties in prisons and of course those horrific mistakes that have been made around Michael P., resulting in a deadly victim. In the debate on the report by the OVV on Michael P., it was clear what sort of automations have actually crept into our system and that freedoms are actually only approached from an inmate, with little attention being paid to the risks of victims and survivors. This proves that there is a need for this proposal, something that my group has been calling for for a long time. Let us also say straight away that the present proposal finally regulates the exchange of information. These are undisputedly essential matters. As has already been said, the granting of freedoms is going to be a real moment of decision. That brings me to a complicated question. Mr Van Nispen pointed that out. How do we ensure the correct checks-and-balances in the course of detention? How is a good look at what steps someone has taken? How are the decisions taken looked at? Can the Minister explain which control mechanisms are in place? We must not forget that the workers in the workplace are becoming more powerful. So it also makes it vulnerable. These people will not only have the key to the cell, but also figuratively from the front door. How does the Minister ensure that there is real investment in staff and that there is time and space for these transfers and discussions? We know from practice that, for example, multidisciplinary consultation is always the step-child of the day. I can't do that anymore. In addition, staff intervision will become more important than ever. How is the Minister going to ensure that the prison system can actually carry out its mission? I read something about strengthening craftsmanship and training, but the implementation of this proposal should not be underestimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u135	I understand what Mrs Van Toorenburg said. She says parole shouldn't be an automatism. I can go a long way with that, but what problem do we solve by limiting conditional release to two years? I still don't understand that, so I'd like a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u136	We know from practice that people are barely followed for more than two years. This means that the people who have been released much earlier will simply receive a penalty discount, which will not do anything effectively. I do not think that is credible, and I do not think that is the way we should deal with criminal law. You'll be punished, and you'll be allowed to work part of your return. That is a very important part of this law. From day one, you'll be watching how you behave. You stimulate good behavior. That's what the prison system finally learns from youth institutions. That's where the system comes from. In the end, when someone goes outside, we want it to be looked very critically at how someone behaves. At some point, you're done with that. The most dangerous prisoners can always have lifelong surveillance. That was also a proposal from the CDA. We've dealt with that before. We'll keep it. We're not abolishing it with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u137	We also hear from parole organisations and judges that they are making a gross net weighting. A judge says: I want a delinquent in prison for 12 years, and I add, for example, six years of parole. This proposal will only last two years. We are not talking about prisoners who are not serving their sentence, but about prisoners who are not going to have enough time to work together with parole organisations to ensure a safe return to society. I would like to hear Mrs Van Toorenburg's view on this. I have said a great deal in my speech about the risks involved, but I do not hear that they are actually being undermined.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u138	In 1987 I started working in the prison system. In 1987 I started doing that. I've worked with such systems for years and I've seen how people are eventually prepared. We thought for a long time that you shouldn't start outside. Then you need a very long period. It's been a long time. The previous cabinet also failed the prison system. It took a very long time for that to turn. Now we finally have a system in which we are working on it from day one. The probation comes back to the prison system, but not in the same way as before, because that was not always effective. So it's a completely different way of working. If you just say "we keep doing what we always did and we just take the vi off," you're stupid. But that is not the proposal that is before us either. The proposal before you is that from day one you are in the process of resocialization and preparing people for their return to society. You'll have up to two years to see how someone behaves outside. Again, we also have the other law for the most dangerous people, with possible lifelong supervision. That overall package is a much more credible system and that serves our rule of law as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u139	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u140	At that last point, we can find each other. It is good that the law provides for socialisation and reintegration from day one. But why limit parole now? Should we not first consider whether the new system is working properly, whether it is making sufficient progress? Then maybe you could take a look at limiting conditional release. But why now? What problem do we solve with that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u141	We solve the problem that people get a very long period of gift, that victims hear that someone gets 20 years in prison and that just goes away with a third. This does not serve the credibility of our system. This is the moment when we can improve that. That's what I'm attached to. You just indicated that you are speaking to judges who use a certain unit of account. I speak to judges who say that they are doing this very differently. Let it be said today: we are dealing with a law, and what we say about it also counts in the final effect in the field. It would be very unwise for judges to think "I'm going to impose much lower penalties everywhere." Because we don't want minimum punishment, absolutely not. But, of course, there's gonna be a moment, and then we're gonna be driven to give more direction to the punishments. That's gonna be in margins rather than in minimum sentences. So I would actually like to send out the following signal: if that is the answer to this law, then that is the wrong answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u142	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u143	The fact that the implementation of this bill should not be underestimated at all, I would like to say again in the corner of the continuation of my speech. Mr. Chairman. The bill also contains a plan to set up an advisory board that will advise the Public Prosecutor to consider in complex and difficult cases whether actual leave should be granted or conditional release. This advisory college will be composed of members of the Public Prosecutor's Office and independent experts. In complex cases, advice will be sought. Advice, no binding advice. However, I would like to ask the Minister if he can look again at what role victims could have in this. I am not thinking of individual victims in a particular case, but of victim organisations that should be involved. That is the system on which we have previously received a motion, that Canadian system. Can the Minister pay particular attention to this in his work? Of course, talk to the various victim organisations, but shouldn't a representation of the victims, who hear all day how it's all being experienced, have a place in such an independent advisory college? Now the experts are called "scientists," people from the Public Prosecutor's Office and possibly judges, but we must not forget the victims. Let me also say today that we are very happy with the implementation of our motion, which makes it easier for the interests of victims to be taken into account when granting external freedoms. Victims shall be given the opportunity to make known their need for protection in writing or orally. Thank you for this. Thanks also for the letter of amendment which provides that the obligation to move may be included as a special condition. We've often insisted on that. We've got some very poignant situations of convicts who can come and show me nice la, la, la, la near victims and next of kin: you can't touch me. It's been really horrible. We know all too well the examples of the Keijzer family. So it is a good thing that the Minister finally takes care of this in the interests of victims and survivors. I have two questions about this. The minister will explain what he's thinking about. He rightly thinks of minors who do not need to be confronted with the perpetrators of a serious sex crime. But doesn't the same apply explicitly to the survivors of victims of violence? For them, therefore, it should also apply that someone cannot come near. I would also like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to "stretch to the limit" once again, if I may speak a little English, perhaps by means of administrative law, to look at what they are doing in Belgium, namely to make such a removal obligation, or at least a residence ban, apply for longer, even after the vi? Or, in exceptional cases, to allow mayors, through administrative law, to investigate serious crimes of violence and sexuality, whether someone can be banned from taking action close to the victim? Can the Minister look very creatively, perhaps administratively, at whether that can be a solution? Mr. Chairman. In the letter of amendment I referred for a moment to the fact that information can be exchanged between municipalities, the probation and the establishment, including in connection with the report of the OVV; I already said it. But the question is, of course, what about medical information, because that is often the information that says something about someone's danger. What's the deal with that? Can the Minister say anything about that? Could this be shared without the consent of a convicted person? Then I read in the note following the report that an administrative agreement will be reached. Is there anything to be said about that? I'm very curious about that, too. As I said, my group welcomes the fact that conditional release will eventually be shorter and no longer automatic. But, of course, we also have an eye for the rehabilitating effect of a large conditional release and the fact that someone has to come back gradually. There will probably be a very small group that leaves nothing to be desired and that will always be dangerous, in the present system, but also in the future system. How can we still close that? P.O.D. indicated that in its implementation it now appears that lifelong supervision is complicated when a person has not been released on parole at all, not even a day. Should we close that up? Then the proposal by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Kuik might be a good solution to see how to keep an eye on people for longer. I'd like to see how you can still consider that aspect. When we say to each other that dangerous people must have lifelong supervision, we need to see how we can shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u144	Indeed, the CDA and the SP agree on many points. We agree on the phase of detention, the importance of investing in staff, etc. We don't agree on parts either. But this subject is indeed complicated. Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned earlier that bad behavior should be punished. She mentioned the horrible example of boiling soup in the face of a prison guard. It must be subject to a severe sanction. I've drawn attention to that, too. But if, in more cases than we are now, we say 'you have not shown good behavior and so you are not going with conditional release', we will create a larger group that is also outside lifelong supervision. No day with conditional release means no supervision after that either. So it is a fair question that Mrs Van Toorenburg is now asking the Minister, but is the problem of ticking time bombs not also being increased with this bill without supervision on the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u145	I don't think so, because from day one we actually have consequences for behavior, and because that whole competence model is where it comes from, it also appears to work internationally. That's how you send people in. That is the profit of this proposal. You can see that two years is the real time someone is being watched. Let's not tell each other anything: in that second year that is hardly designed, you know. I know the practice all too well. That might be a call once every two weeks. That's what we're talking about. Now let's not tell each other that you're actually making people safer by keeping an eye on them for a longer period. There will always be a group dangerous. He's been punished. So we have to make sure that it is going well. Unfortunately, this will not always be the case in the future either, but that is exactly the same as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u146	As regards the way in which this two-year period is being implemented in practice, one could also say: we should make it better, because all the experts point out to us that this longer period is necessary. If that is not the practice, then we should have made proposals to the Minister to improve it. But apart from that point: I was actually talking about tightening up, the fact that potentially fewer people are going into conditional release. You call that an automatism; I do not think that this is the current practice, but you say that it is. But if you want to get rid of it, then in the future fewer people will be released with conditional release, because your behaviour during detention determines whether or not you will be released on parole. Surely you cannot deny that there is a larger group that will soon serve the whole sentence and will not be released on parole, and that there is a larger group than now, without supervision, going out on the streets? On some parts we are very certain, but on some parts we may also have a bit of doubt as to whether this is the way. You are right to ask questions about this to the Minister. You're asking, "How can we arrange that?" And "is the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Kuik the answer to that?" I was therefore hoping to find a little doubt in the CDA on this point as to whether it is the sensible way to allow fewer people to be released on a conditional basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u147	No, actually, I don't. For the people who are really disturbed, this minister also has the solution in this law that the transition to the ggz is going to be much better. We have the proposal of lifelong surveillance, for which we need to look at how you're putting it here. But we really just have to be very realistic. If people have been in prison for 15 years, haven't felt like changing their behavior for 15 years and misbehaving for 15 years, do we really think that with a longer conditional release, we can make it safe outside by keeping an eye on someone? No, it doesn't matter at all. For this category it's a present at the moment. It is a gift because one is just almost automatically released. I think that's why we need to get rid of the system we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u148	I would like to continue on this point, because I am, of course, still seeking support for my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u149	You're not getting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u150	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u151	Well, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u152	That's clear. I had hoped that Mrs Van Toorenburg would listen to my arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u153	So there's nothing in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u154	It indicates that the current practice is that conditional release ends after about two years in any case. But should we not, as Mr Van Nispen points out, see how we can improve that? Perhaps this can be done by increasing the capacity of parole organisations. Because it may be a relatively small group, as Mrs Van Toorenburg also points out, but this group can cause great risks to society. So should we not look at how to make the current system better, stronger and safer instead of throwing away the baby with the bath water?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u155	I was so determined because it is de facto a 'destructive amendment', as we say in this House. You have simply tabled an amendment which eliminates the entire functioning of the law. I have spoken enthusiastically about this in my election programme. We managed to get it into the coalition agreement. So you do not really think that I have considered your amendment even one group? That's because you don't want the whole system that we want. That may be so, but we will never agree to it, because I shall not repeat myself, and I do not want to believe in the system that from day one, we will have one real consequence of behavior. If you haven't shown that all this time in the prison system, you're just gonna serve your sentence until the end. After all, it hasn't mattered to send someone back. Then that will not be the case at the conditional release stage either, learns the experience. People who haven't shown anything in the prison system, unfortunately, then show nothing but wrong behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u156	No, Mr. Van den Berge, I don't think this makes any sense. You fought like a lion for your amendment, but I think Mrs Van Toorenburg was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u158	If I may, I would like to explain in two sentences why it is a very constructive amendment. We find each other on the point of starting the re-socialization process from day one. So we say, why would you restrict all this parole now? That's not the end of the system. So we support that principle of the law, but why not wait? Why does that need to be taken care of now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u159	Because there are consequences and so far they have not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u161	That was my answer, but I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u162	No, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u163	I'm gonna move on. I see I signed up wrong for the term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u164	Yeah, I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u165	That's because I came up with all sorts of things when I was preparing this one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u166	Finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u167	Because there are still a number of details in it. You have an old system that lasts a little longer and you have a new system. I actually want to know from the Minister how he will ensure that the prison system can handle this and that we have penitentiary programmes that still run in the old way and not in the new way. Then we'll have parole. There are, but not in the new system. Then we have vi, but not that combination. I'd like the prison system to understand. So that requires something from this Minister, and I want an answer to that. I also want to know how often it happens that people have that penitentiary program and that vi. How many people are out there right now in that construction that is de facto a doubling, making someone halfway outside, which we may never have wanted? Another specific subject, namely labour. I like that I find the SP at my side again; you can also see that I am on the side of Van Nispen. I'm really not comfortable with that duty of labor disappearing. Because we're going to have inmates who have plenty of money, who have a family who wants to support them and who will be able to stay in bed all day. They can think: bye-bye with your labor; I am all interested in the roses; I am not participating. Eventually they can get a television, because they have the money. What are we gonna do with that? I know it's a thorn in the eye of every penitentiary plant worker to see this kind of lameness in the department. Because in the end, you have to withhold staff, because there are inmates, especially if there are two in a cell. That's gonna be complicated for the occupation. So I really want to see whether we can come to a system in which this work becomes compulsory in some way. Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that the detention phase is being restored, because just those very limited security facilities have been the institutions that have hardly been repeated. We, at least, did not want to throw away the baby with the bath water at the time, but not us but the previous cabinet. I'm so glad we were able to take it away just before the well. I'll zoom in on the special conditions. I fear that someone may soon be obliged to stay in the Netherlands. That is important, because otherwise supervision is indeed a wash nose. Let me just once again be very critical of the way justice has gone about with the special conditions, because it seems that you saw in Volkert van der Graaf's judgment that judges say: you really only have to comply with those special conditions if there is a direct risk of recidivism. Those conditions are never intended for this purpose in the Chamber; that is never the intention of the legislator. A judge has therefore given a different interpretation than we have agreed to here. So I also want to make it very clear that this will not be the case in the future. Because also for the location bans and the removal ban it is true that they cannot only be effective if there is acute fear of recidivism. I believe that these supervisory measures apply coûte que coûte. It is important that we pronounce that against each other here. I'm rounding up. The draft law before us is a substantial improvement in the way detention is currently being organised in the Netherlands, but everything is, of course, working in practice. I look forward very much to all the work visits in which I will notice a difference. But I would also like to hear from the Minister how he intends to inform us of all progress. Does he have an evaluation in mind himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u168	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u169	Then I would actually like to make the proposal to suspend until 2.30 p.m. Then we will vote first, then we will have the order of business and then we will proceed with this debate.
