ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the General European Reviews. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the past, the Netherlands was one of the founding fathers of the European Union with enthusiasm. The result is that we have now fallen to a wingewest. Our guilder was squandered and taken away, during the changeover to the euro the Dutch were held dumb and secretly deprived of 10% of their property, because otherwise the creation of the euro would have been at risk. And that euro was needed to move towards one great Europe, economic, social, fiscal and complete with its own order service. Mr. Chairman. The European Union would be good for our exports, as if we were not trading before the European Union. And let us not forget: then we were talking about our own trade agreements. Now we are dependent on the EU's whims, in which the Franco-German axis has an increasing role to play. These two major countries are in the throes of the conclusion of the European trade agreements, and then they are in the throes of the greatest orders. We can only function as a box slider. Mr President, the consolation prize. We can now export freely within Europe's borders and then pay for exports to southern Europe itself. For example, in the TARGET2 payment system there is a further EUR 101 billion in export surplus. These 101 billion are still in De Nederlandsche Bank's books as a claim on the ECB, but it will never be collected. In other words, exports are paid by the taxpayer, because I fear that we are not going to see these billions ever coming this way again. As long as the euro area remains intact, the euro fable will not fall apart, but the system will gradually rot from within. Perhaps that is why Rutte and his associates are arguing for one European superstate, because in that situation you no longer need to pretend that you can recover the billions. After all, your claim simply does not exist anymore and can thus be dealt with by the old paper. Mr. Chairman. After goods can move freely within the EU, workers can do the same. And that also happens, especially to the rich countries, where there is much to get and which can also provide you with a benefit, with which you can lie in the hammock for a while in your home country. If it is the EU's fault, it will become even more generous and our country's social security funds will be drained even further. But this isn't the end of it. The EU wants to harmonise both the labour market and social services. For what the EU sees as the underclass in the rich EU countries, this is debilitating, because the way up is not used. No, the race to the bottom continues steadily, as long as the middle class has become the underclass and the underclass is as poor as a church rat. Mr. Chairman. The hundreds of thousands of happiness seekers with predominantly an Islamic background who eagerly flow into the European territory are putting even more pressure on wages. We were told that these future workers are much needed. It is not only their supposed craftsmanship that is disgusting, but also the morals of labour are sad in many people. While Syrians are fit enough to go home to celebrate the Sugar Festival, despite the begging of the women left behind, they go to hell to build their own country. You might wonder what they're gonna add here. That it is at the expense of the prosperity of the indigenous population does not interest. And that they suffer Islamic terror as a thank you doesn't matter to the elite either. And your daughter is harassed by migrants, give her a headscarf and she is no longer harassed outside, so the motto is to the troubled parents. The UN, the Islamic wolf in sheep's clothing, even encourages German women to wear headscarfs to carry tolerance. They're gonna ask you to marry your underage daughter. Mr President, the 'road with us' goes even further. Verhofstadt, you know the leader of the Liberal European Group, which also includes D66 and the VVD, comes up with the idea of a Euro-African economic area. Hoppa, a billion consumers in one go and perhaps four billion in the future. Now you mustn't think this is a test balloon. The Marrakesh Treaty has already secretly cleared the way. This treaty legalizes the migration of Africans to Europe and then to live it out completely. And the Prime Minister says it's okay. Last year he covered up the facts in this house. He shamelessly claimed that the Marrakesh Treaty is not legally binding. A leaked note from the legal service of the European Commission claims the opposite. It is indeed legally binding. So we've been lied to by the Prime Minister in this house, and he's gonna get away with it. This shows how rotten the system is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u4	Speaking of the truth, does Mrs Faber know the written questions put by the PVV group in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u5	I've got them right here. I know them!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u6	That's it. So you also know the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u7	Yeah, I know the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u8	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u9	Sorry, Chairman, I was in on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u10	Then I am interested in whether Mrs Faber would like to share those answers with us, because those answers... But let me wait for her to share those answers with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u11	Of course I want to share those answers. In an answer it is said that it is not an official document. This is a document which, although drawn up by an individual representative of the Commission, is not carried out more broadly within the Commission. So it's not an official document, but that doesn't mean it's not true. It concerns an individual legal officer. I can tell you one thing: the legal service of the European Commission is not really the stupidest people. It says that the Commission does not share this view. If the Commission does not want to take this view, it does not mean that it is not true. It may also be that they don't want to wear it politically. It is not said that the pertinent is incorrect. It doesn't say anywhere that it's wrong what this legal officer wrote down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. May I first take a positive note? Mrs Faber is also of the opinion that there are good lawyers working at the European Commission. I think that's a win. But now the content of the answer. The answer is that an employee has issued a document without status and not with the authority of a decision of the European Commission. That is not, therefore, the position and not the official interpretation of what the Marrakesh Pact means in a legal sense. You can say it's true. But whether you think it's true or whether I think it's true is not so relevant. It is a question of whether this is the position of the European Commission as a party to the treaty. He says, no, it's not binding. I'll ask Mrs Faber again. Is this pact officially binding or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u13	I believe it is binding. It may not be the position of the European Commission, but that does not mean that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u14	Well, that's clear. It is therefore the explanation by the PVV of an international treaty that it is binding, while the contracting parties do not think so. I thought it was important to mark this, because it has already come to this Chamber three times as a definite fact that it is a binding treaty. According to the official parties, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u15	I would like to go into this a little bit further. I remember that during the General Political Reviews we discussed this extensively. It is true that any African who reports to our border may be entitled to our social services under the Marrakesh Treaty. If he or she doesn't get that, then he or she can just walk to court and enforce it. Then you'll get case law. Everyone knows what can happen to case law. So it can become binding. All right, Chairman, I'll move on. I need to see where I left off. Mr. Chairman. To keep the population quiet, the indoctrination machine runs at full speed: in the media, in schools and in universities. Even the President of the European Commission, Juncker, advises to lie if it becomes difficult. This one might still be interesting, if we take a look at the question Mr. Backer just asked. It also says here: if it gets hard, you can start lying. So maybe he was lying, too. Not you, Mr. Backer! Just so we're clear, I'm not saying Mr. Backer is lying. But I'm talking about Mr. Juncker, who in an interview indicated that you'd better start lying when things get tough. Perhaps he did so when interpreting the leaked note from the legal service employee. And maybe Rutte is inspired by Juncker about lying. Mr. Chairman. Journalists are commissioned to disinform the public. In this way, they will be given guidelines to highlight, in particular, the diversity of Muslim communities. As if these communities are thriving with diversity! Journalists should not associate terms such as "Muslim" or "Islam" with certain actions, such as the arbitrary stabbing of innocent civilians, the shooting of travellers or the horrific torture of Jews. That would all work stigmatizingly. But, yes, Allahoe akbar is really an Islamic battle cry. You must have been on the tram in Utrecht. In order to strengthen media indoctrination, the Migration Pact, which is part of the Marrakesh Treaty, forces media channels to support the UN migration agenda, if they still want to be eligible for public funding. Another reason why public service broadcasting should be included in the bulk waste. Mr. Chairman. Elect parliamentarians who have the guts to be critical of the EU, both at national and European level, are subjected to pressure from all sides to make them sing a little less. That's how life is made miserable for them. Threats, physical violence, processes, demonisation and so on: it just happens, and all layers of society participate in it. At the bottom, the AFAs of today are active and in the highest regions of the European Parliament's spitzen candidates. For example, top candidate Manfred Weber from the European People's Party, the European family to which the Christian Democratic Appeal belongs, demands that EU critical parties be excluded from public party funding. These parties are democratically elected by citizens who are more than tired of the European Salvation State. This anti-democrat, who is in the race for the Presidency of the European Commission, therefore wants to take out all the voters who voted for these parties very hard. Apparently, you can vote in the European Union if you endorse the European state of salvation. We've seen unions and rich people before where there's only one party. They were all gonna crack sooner or later because the civilians went out on the street. The European Union is cracking, too. Several countries are beginning to mutine, such as the former Eastern bloc countries. They choose their own people and their own culture and close their borders. In the past, they have suffered from the terror of the Ottomans, the Nazis and the Soviets. They don't want to trade one yoke for another yoke, and they're right. But how far will the EU go to keep them in line? Are they going to deploy a future European army against these peoples, in the same way as the Warsaw Pact troops in the past? In 1956, they mercilessly knocked down the Hungarian uprising and rolled into Prague twelve years later with their tanks to intimidate and keep the population under control. Mr. Chairman. We should not think that such things cannot happen in Europe. Recently, the armoured cars with their EU logo on the Champs-Élysées drove against the yellow hoists. Recently, Macron decided to use more than 7,000 anti-terrorist forces in Opération Sentinelle against its own population. This French sun king dreams of a European army, but why a European army if we are members of NATO? What's wrong with NATO? Will the European army then protect our borders? At present, national armies are not even allowed to protect their own borders. Worse still, part of the European external border would be guarded by the Turks, who themselves operate across borders on European territory. Think of Cyprus. It's like asking the burglar's guild to guard your house. Yet France is eager to put the United States, including NATO, on the dike, so that the French rooster can crow victory, as if Europe is currently able to defend itself. But Germany too has not lost its way and is forging plans to include non-Germans in the German army. They already have experience with that. The military images have already entered, now the rest. Mr President, the battle for Britain. Or should I say the battle for Europe? It seems that the modern Chamberlain, in the form of Prime Minister May, has become the playball of London and Brussels. This chaotic jousting is not just a message to London but to all net contributors. A smooth Brexit can bring the end of the EU, so chaos must be created to dramatically break the United Kingdom. But who breaks who? The Brexit can just be the end of the European salvation state. Instead of responding to the wishes of the British people and the Brexit, there will be a chaotic jousting that will benefit no one. Nobody's waiting for a hard Brexit. That is why the PVV also argued last week to postpone the British until 22 May, so that they still have time to leave the EU with a deal and before the European elections. It is unbelievable to work on a Brexit while at the same time taking part in the European elections. Delay until 1 November is only a stretch and stretch exercise to prevent a Brexit and to deviously keep the British on the European leash. Mr President, I will conclude. It will be clear to you that the PVV supports the British people in his wish for the Brexit, preferably for a Brexit with a deal. On the next issue: economic cooperation is fine, but the EU in its present form, which is steadily committed to a totalitarian European superstate? No deal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are debating the European Union and its future in this House today. It must be said that this debate is taking place at a time when the European Union seems to shake its foundations. This is mainly due to the chaos that has developed around the Brexit process. Before saying anything more about it, I would first like to say an encouraging remark. For more than two years, the "Europe of the 27" has been a closed group in dealing with the total confusion that has hit the United Kingdom. Also encouraging is the calm and substantive strength with which the European Union has accompanied the separation process. This contrasts sharply with the spectacle that has developed in the United Kingdom. Anyone following the debates at the House of Commons is witnessing an apparently comical event. However, there is a need for more confusion and concern. What is happening in the United Kingdom is not only a demonstration of recklessness, but also of disruption: of democracy and of the country itself. The brexirefementum had already torn the country apart, but this fate in the meantime also affects the brexiteers. The fact that "the people have spoken," as constantly claimed by the hard core, is a farce. A small majority voted in favour of retirement. However, without indicating how. And now the majority democracy is no more capable than a "no" repeated in all keys. In substance, the parliamentary majority behaves like a black hole. There is constant speculation about the economic damage caused by this madness. But something far worse is happening, something that is inherent in a populism that is also under the control of the United Kingdom. Namely, the destruction of the connection of the population as a community. The only thing that still comes out is bitter division. The only thing that holds the country together is to stand up to Europe. If this negative binder disappears, with any deal or no deal, an inner disturbed land remains. The question is whether this country will be able to come to its senses in good time. Again, in this light it is remarkable how the 27 have testified of peace and stability. Everything hasn't been said yet. The disruption affecting the UK also resonates in European Member States. Here too, an increasingly nationalistic populism is stirring up with the suggestion that an inward-oriented nation state with closed borders has a future, but nothing is less true. Under the earlier broad protection of the USA such a blind faith in a crumbling Europe could last for a while, but this protective umbrella is out of sight. The geopolitical force field is changing rapidly. And anyone who thinks that a small-scale nationalism offers an adequate answer to that is living in a romantic illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u18	I was just reflecting on Mr Schaap's thorough speech. If I have listened to him correctly, he is talking about the disruption of the populism that plagues the United Kingdom and which has led to the Brexit drama. Well, that it's a drama, I won't deny. Nor will I deny that it is chaos, including in the House of Commons. But does Mr Schaap also have any thoughts on what led to the leave vote? Are there any real concerns about this? Could it not also be an indication that the process of European integration has gone too far for many people and has taken place too much over their heads? Should we not also reflect on this, including as the remaining EU-27?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr Van Apeldoorn suggests the answer I should give. Of course there are concerns among the people there, including in the United Kingdom. Of course, you have to define that as a problem that needs to be addressed seriously. However, this has taken a totally wrong turn and it has actually been provoked by the choice to allow the people to express themselves on something through a referendum. This has not solved any problem, it has not thematicized anything at all, it has only caused a huge torn-up in the country and led to enmity that often runs right through families. That is what I mean by the disruption of the country and that should have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u20	What solution is there if we leave it to the observation that there is disruptive populism and a wrong instrument, in this case the referendum? We can have a whole discussion about referenda, I will not do so now, but what good is it if we in the EU say that it is disruptive, that it is populism and nationalism, if you do not understand those signals that have been sent, not only by the British people but also elsewhere, about the development of the European integration process over the past decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr Van Apeldoorn suggests that Europe has not taken the problems in the United Kingdom seriously. I doubt that. There are plenty of forums in which this could have been discussed, such as the European Parliament. This has not been enough and has actually been undermined by the turn that has taken place since the referendum. If there were any problems, they've grown exponentially now. That's a total drama. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I had gone a little out of the subject by bringing in the larger world. This larger world has become multipolar; strong economic and military forces compete with each other for global influence and control. I mention besides the USA, but China, Russia, Japan and soon India and these powers certainly do not share the values that we hold high here in Europe for the time being. In any case, these values include respect for the sovereignty of individual states. We do not just call the European Union a community of values, held together by treaties linking equal partners. Russia and China seem to be dealing very loosely with the principles of rule of law and sovereignty. Russia through gross interference in other countries, including conquest. China by means of a much more subtle will, as through agreements that seem to have parity as a starting point, but in practice lead to disrespectful dominance. A Europe that is divided will undoubtedly become the weaker and underlying party. In fact, the individual Member States of the EU will be in a hold. As the European Union has firmly and firmly opposed a confused and unruly United Kingdom, it will also have to stand united against an aggressive Russia and an intrusive China. Even if NATO is not called into question, the USA seems to be developing into an economic geopolitical competitor of Europe, a competitor in a more unclear world stage of power politics. I would like to hear the Minister give an account of his view on the geopolitical position of the Netherlands and the European Union. In the European Community of shared values, a few berries are developing. I mentioned all the advancing populism with its confused images of lost national glory. This kind of nostalgia, the desire for a past that never existed, should not be wasted energy. If anything needs to be picked up, it's real trouble. They do not require nostalgia but forward-looking action. The fact that different visions are introduced and the competition is a great asset. It's part of a democratic process. In this game within the European Union, the Netherlands must take a strong position. This is in our own interest and in Europe's interest. This is especially so after our neighbouring Member State falls away. I would also like to hear a comment from the Minister on this. I have the impression that the government is sometimes in a position of opposition to the larger Member States, namely Germany and France. For example, through the so-called Hanseatic Alliance. Such a position would seem unwise. Were it not better to ensure a strong input into the Franco-German axis? These two countries will not let go of each other, but they will not. That's what the past has learned. Why not create a forward-looking agenda for the reform and development of the European Union? Such a powerful block is necessary for two other reasons. First of all, to keep a grip on some weak Member States on the south side of the European Union, such as Greece and Italy. This is not just about the economic and monetary situation in these countries, but also about over-inducing China and tackling problems. This tendency can also be observed in other Member States. I was just talking about this. Such a one-to-one policy cannot be blamed on China, but rather on Member States that prefer a rapid success to a geopolitical strategy. I'd like to hear the Minister about this. The other reason to move with Germany and France is the situation in the eastern flank of the European Union, in particular Poland, Hungary and Romania.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u22	I see the problem outlined by Mr Schaap. In Italy there are many problems in the country and also in society. The government is heading towards Europe quite hard. But I also just heard Mr Schaap say: shouldn't we also look further, shouldn't we just follow a one-dimensional course with this Hanseatic alliance? Wouldn't that also apply to Italy? I see the European Commission doing its best to try to get out with Italy somehow, but I also see a Dutch government that is firmly opposed to it. What does Mr Schaap think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u23	Too hard can provoke resistance and in fact the goal "keep them there and seduce them to sensible politics"... Too hard an attitude can be harmful. It is therefore better to have a constant dialogue, as the European Union always does. Lots of talk, little steps and still at the end they come out again and again. In this way, we will have to help Europe's southern flank to achieve wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u24	I am glad that Mr Schaap does not fully support the robust line of the Dutch government, but rather feels more in favour of the European Commission's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u25	Sounds like there's some nuances imaginable, yeah. So I was talking about those three Central European countries. It is not easy for many former communist countries to abandon the autocratic past and to absorb values and institutions belonging to the democratic rule of law. Therein comes the problem of corruption that is raging. In particular, corrupt behavior of those who have political and social power. The European Union has instruments to bring these countries to order, but the question is to what extent this results. It is also necessary to exert influence from the inside, for example by supporting groups that embrace our values, i.e. by a broad commitment in the political and social fields. Processes of reform must also take place from within. Slovakia seems to be a good example of this. Would the Minister like to take a stand on this too? Mr. Chairman. One of the major achievements of the European Union is that of open borders for goods, services, capital and persons. Of course, this openness brings about the necessary tensions at times. I refer to the migration of people who find their way through other Member States, including their rights and obligations. The free movement of persons is a cause for concern for other reasons. Part of the post-communist version of my text states "pre-communist". Central Europe is empty, including towards North-West Europe. Largely, what is happening in many countries is also happening internally: migration from peripheral parts of the country to economic centres. The Netherlands is not getting away from this either. At the same time, we cannot do without migrant workers. Would the Minister care to comment on this? Does he have any idea how to balance this flow of migration without undermining the principle of openness of borders? The joint search for solutions to frictions and tensions is part of the game of integration. With the slogan "Closing National Borders," this tension field is not solved. Russia does not belong to the European Union, but there too a large proportion of young people want to escape the appalling internal situation, and many succeed in doing so, even though the borders are shielded. Open borders within the community mean joint control of the external borders of the European Union. And that too is where the issue of migratory flows pops up. Unmistakably, this migration has led to great tensions, not only in countries where migrants enter, but also in countries where transit has taken place or where it has become and is blocked. In any case, the European Union will have to develop joint policies. This applies not only to the refugee problem, for which we must not close down, but also to the many who, for reasons of prosperity, are seeking a good solution in Europe, often with the use of smugglers. Smuggling routes need to be tackled hard, and this can only be done through joint efforts. The VVD Group has already highlighted the need to strengthen Frontex in the 2016 reflections. It is necessary to develop Frontex into a powerful organisation. In Central European countries, however, there is considerable resistance to the inclusion of immigrants from outside, even in the case of recognised refugees. Of course, autocratic leaders use the problem conveniently by evoking ghost images of invasions of people's enemies. There is no understanding for this. This is all the more so because these people often also in their own country manage to detect and abuse "enemies of the people" for their own gain of power. That is one of the dangers of autocratic populism. However, I would like to comment on the fear of migratory flows in Central Europe. And that is the continuing fear of disruptions by the clash of ethnic or religious sections, as a result of the rearrangements that were carried out through and after the First and Second World Wars. The aftermath of this has been a long time and has caused a great deal of suffering. And this has been repeated in the Balkan War in the 1990s. Would it not be possible to consider not allowing the issue of migration in these countries to become a provocation and to seek solutions other than forced admissions? I'd like to hear the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u26	That is also an interesting thought from Mr Schaap. It fits in with his approach that you move forward with consultation, the approach of empathizing in each other's interests. Yet here you see very clearly the problem that, as long as we do not have a fair distribution, countries with heavier burdens say 'I do not do it anymore' or adjust their own asylum system downwards. What solution does Mr Schaap see for himself, perhaps responding to the objections or resistance of the Eastern European Member States, without undermining the solidarity that we need so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u27	This solidarity must be brought about, but one could also think of increased financial contributions to solving the problem jointly, not taking on exactly the same obligations. I hope, in fact, that the government will be able to check whether more of these solutions are possible, which at least do not provoke the country and do not give those autocratic leaders the chance to make a big effort in favour of their own dominant position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u28	Suppose the additional financial support does not help and it seems that the Eastern European countries are not so sensitive to it. If there is no other possibility, does Mr Schaap see what financial sanctions, for example, for linking to a cohesion fund which may or may not be part of Schengen, or does Mr Schaap not see it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u29	That's the last trench, the use of the hard instruments. So criminal law, if I may put it that way. I'd rather be ahead of that, but you shouldn't be making these conversations in the marketplace too loudly. With these countries, careful consultation must be carried out in order to help them with solutions that do not provoke too much without loss of face. That has something to do with the past I'm pointing out. Those countries have been devastated by wars and civil wars, also around the First and Second World Wars. And so I think there's a need for some understanding of the sensitivity there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u30	I understand that very well, but I also see a great deal of sensitivity in the southern Member States. That's where the water really is to their lips, and that's what's been going on for 20 years. The question is: will the VVD Group continue to set the goal of achieving this solidarity by all means, of course, but step by step? So if one drug doesn't work, try to move on to other means?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u31	Yes, we must not leave individual countries to their fate. So solutions must be Community. Once again, this requires consultation, but also flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u32	Of course, in consultation it must be giving and taking. I had the privilege of visiting Slovakia with the Benelux delegation to the Visegrad countries. What strikes me so strongly is that it's an ideological story. Poland, Hungary have a very strong argument: we are the last bastion of Christianity. So the question of sovereignty and the defence of that concept are much stronger than the problem you raise of division in the country. It is used to defend a political position. And as long as we have the majority in that country, so can we. But now my question to Mr Schaap is: is it really helpful to show a great deal of understanding for the other subject, which is not really the subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u33	I have argued in favour of understanding the historical situation in those countries; I have absolutely no understanding for the abuse of it by autocratic leaders. Those two things shouldn't be confused. Of course, the VVD Group is in favour of Community solutions, but, once again, we need a little sense of the historical background of these countries to see whether they can be achieved smoothly, and we need to avoid harsh provocations. I'm pleading here for a search. I am not wearing ready-made solutions to this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u34	I understand that, but I can see that the Community approach must be careful when it comes to weighing up national problems. The Alsace also has a history. The surroundings of Trieste also have a history. There are many countries: the Hungarians in Romania, the Romanians in Hungary. So I would like to invite Mr Schaap to go into the hard negotiations with the understanding that he has and that I have. 'Cause it's just gonna be tough negotiations, giving and taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u35	Based on this understanding, I think it is very good for everyone who is going to negotiate in the wider world to take some lessons in history first and then some lessons in cultural anthropology. Then you can talk with a great deal of understanding about what lives under the skin of the people in those countries, and then you can make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u36	For my group, what Mr Schaap is talking about is an extremely important issue. His approach route also appeals to me very much. I would also like to support this. We should not necessarily go to a one-size-fits-all solution in Europe. To be honest, we do not have such good experiences, especially when it comes to discussions about human flows, migration. Even when it comes to workers' flows, you just see that that doesn't fit. To be honest, it is not a sensible negotiating strategy either, as I hear the honourable Member say, because there is often much more profit to be gained from negotiations when everyone is doing what they can. So I appreciate that very much. But I still have one more question. We can say all kinds of things about Europe, but what does Mr Schaap actually say about the commitment of our own Dutch government? I hear he's talking about reinforcements to Frontex. This is very important, but does it include the reinforcement of patrols and the resumption of patrols on the Mediterranean? Does this include the fact that we are actually going to be responsible for our quota of regulated migration influx as the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u37	Let me put it this way: I have already said something about the hanzenge affair. So I would welcome some nuance of the attitude of the Dutch Government. Let me summarize it so briefly and forcefully. We would once again like to say that perhaps that has something to do with our morals and backgrounds too. A little nuanced thinking, understanding what is going on in that very diverse world, can also help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u38	I'm underlining this, too. For my group, too, this is a very important issue, an important part of this debate. I would also like to take into account the historical context. Countries such as Hungary and Poland have a history that makes them experience their regained sovereignty strongly at the moment. There's a lot more to be said about that. So I would like to underline that, but I would also like to point out that I shall come back to this myself later on, because the WRR has also shown us a way by talking about European variations in policy, including in the area of asylum and migration. We should not have the illusion that we can achieve a one-size-fits-all approach or a generic approach across Europe. Solidarity can also look different. You mentioned, for example, the different distribution of charges. I think that's a very interesting suggestion. Poland and Hungary, for example, are net recipients of European Union money. Would you really like to go that way? Do you think we should do something about that? Is that a suggestion you have in your head?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u39	I have tried to express this in cautious terms, because you have to watch out for this by pretending to be a solution with a few simple slogans. It's consultation. Once again, with some understanding of the situation, but with the hardness of a Community solution. We have also slowly but surely accepted changing speeds in European integration, but that must be accepted at Community level. The same applies to variation in approach. That is something we must consider, but it must be established at Community level so that it does not become wild growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u40	I'd like to put one more question to that. Fine, I agree with this. Can I ask Mr Schaap about the link between the point he made earlier, namely labour migration within Europe? These countries are empty to the west. They regret that, too. At the same time, they are holding back the admission of asylum migrants. That's a very curious situation. But also when it comes to labour migration, of course, we should think about regulation. You are a strong advocate of open borders. I agree, but we will have to look for and regulate variations in this area. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u41	How to do this? I find this extremely complicated. I have already said that even if you close the borders, young people who are a little trained and who want to leave these countries will be gone. That's almost impossible to stop. There is also too much attraction from richer countries to bring them in. I have just seen again at one of my quarters in Albania that a lot of young people with medical training leave for Germany at the moment, because because of a huge shortage, it makes it easier to start their own practice. This is how we solve a problem, but in those countries you create a problem. But how to solve that is the question. The principle of open borders must be kept open, but the emptying of these countries, especially of skilled young people, is extremely disruptive. It is only a question of whether a country such as Bulgaria will remain viable if it has a totally ageing population and lacks the capacity to keep the economy in its own right. So there's gotta be something to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr. Schaap is critical of the hanze alliance...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u43	The trade alliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u44	The hanze alliance. Yeah, maybe I said it a little unclear. Sorry about that. My question is: what is the VVD position? Are they for or against this hanze alliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u45	Oh, that's extremely nuanced. You can see that the government is using speaking with those countries on the north side of Europe. That's fine. All I have said is: do not raise this to an opposition role towards the Franco-German axis. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u46	It may well be that the VVD is very nuanced in that, but still a simple question. Are they for or against this hanze alliance? Do they support yes or no? Well, let me put it this way. It might be a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u47	Who are they? I note that the government is using speaking of these countries together. I said that nuance is fine. It's okay. It's okay. The only thing is that it should not be an opposition role within Europe which is mainly opposed to France-Germany. That's what I wanted to warn you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u48	In fact, I can only conclude that I do not hear a full-bodied one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u49	That's right. In those terms, I don't always speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u50	I just wanted to come back to what was just being exchanged about labour migration. I am pleased to note that the VVD Group also wonders to what extent it should not be balanced, so it shares the growing concerns about unregulated labour migration. At the same time, I hear Mr Schaap say: yes, young people will want to go away; so there is really little you can do about it, because these pull factors are large. But isn't there the possibility of legislation and regulation? For example, if you adopt an emergency braking procedure, which allows Member States to introduce a licensing system, for example, in certain sectors, in the event of a large influx of migrant workers. Then you could regulate it that way, couldn't you? Surely that would have an effect? You can't say they'll just keep coming, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u51	This is a reactive attitude. You see something happening, and somehow you're gonna close the line, you're gonna close your own line. I wouldn't argue for that in the first place. You can also see how working conditions, opportunities for the future can be improved in those countries, of course as the European Union together with those countries individually, so that it remains attractive for young people to settle in Bulgaria or Romania. For example, do not underestimate the drama that is taking place in Bulgaria. There are already 2 million Bulgarians, especially young people, living outside Bulgaria. They're all over Europe. You can't stop that just by pulling boundaries through any smart trick. For example, I do not know how many tens of thousands of young people a year are currently crossing the border of Hungary and getting away. That's what the government sees there. They can still honk about the historical past of that country, but there is no historical future like this. Then you will have to consult with those countries to make it more attractive to stay there. This has to do with the economic climate or with the socio-economic climate. This also has to do with the political climate. That's what I meant by supporting all those movements in those countries that are looking for solutions from the inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u52	I am very much in agreement with Mr Schaap. We should certainly not underestimate how disruptive unregulated labour migration is also working in those countries, in the Eastern European countries where there is a huge drain. There are 2 million Poles in Western Europe, but 2 million Ukrainians work in Poland. In countries such as Latvia and Estonia, people complain: 'we lose our young people, bring our young people back'. Isn't that why we should abandon the idea that we should always stick to those open borders? We must also be able to regulate that labour market. That is not to say close borders; regulating means making laws and regulations that make it possible to limit them when they are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u53	I hear a repeat of a call for reactive policy, but I would like to do it differently. I would therefore like to seek active policies in those countries themselves, to set up their efforts, to develop instruments for them, to start consultations on them, and not to close the borders. Beware, look at what is happening in Russia: with tens of thousands at the same time they are pouring out of the country. It's a huge exodus, while the borders are closed everywhere. So it's much better to make the domestic climate more attractive to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u54	Finally, very briefly, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u55	I don't think one thing rules out the other. But as a final question to Mr Schaap, is Mr Schaap aware that there are all kinds of regulations in the Netherlands that make it attractive for employers to get migrant workers from Poland, Spain and other countries here to avoid social security contributions? Well, couldn't you at least do something about that? Among other things, the FNV recently argued in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u56	We're going into detail now. We need these migrant workers in the Netherlands. I am also talking in this respect from the sector where I come from, the agricultural sector. You can hardly imagine that the agricultural sector will flourish without migrant workers. So be it. In addition to this, and then I come to my point: do something about those countries themselves, do what with those countries themselves!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u57	I would like to stay with the Eastern European countries for a while. I was actually pleased with Mr Schaap's understanding of the special history of these countries. At the same time, and I would like to ask for clarification on this, I can still taste it: but at the end of the day, of course, these countries must do what we want within the EU. Mr Schaap says that he prefers to do so through consultation and the poaching pot rather than with harsh sanctions, but that is what it has to come to. My question is: what if these countries continue to attach to their culture, which has indeed been partially stamped by Christian culture? What if they want to stick to that, with the associated family policy, marriage, etc., is Europe allowed to do so? Can there be so much variety? How's the VVD in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u58	Oh, Europe is a patchwork of diversity and must be cherished. This diversity has so many possibilities of expression: language, dialects, culture, religion, ethnicity, and so on, of course, it must be argued for that. I would warn against thinking too quickly that, when an autocrat speaks of Christian values, it also concerns authentic Christian values. It can also be an abuse of demagogy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u59	What Mr Schaap says, I acknowledge, but is it up to us to judge that? Can those people find something of that themselves? My question is this. I welcome the clear answer given by Mr Schaap, who says: if such a country continues to attach to a particular culture, even if it is contrary to the progressive secular morality of the rest of Europe, then such a country simply has the space to do so. That's how I understood him, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u60	We immediately agree on this: this has been the beginning of Europe, also a Europe of the regions. So, of course. But once again, in all understanding of these backgrounds and of what I have advocated, the outcome of any consultation and of any decision must be that it is Community, that we decide in Europe in such a way that you agree on it, including all the variety in it. It should not be the wild growth of a few countries that are gaining the right and in fact skipping membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr President, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u62	Yes, very briefly. You still have one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u63	I found Mr Schaap very generous towards Mr Van Dijk. That is, of course, very nice, but I assume that Mr Schaap has some sort of soil with regard to this cultural diversity, namely that there must always be compliance with directives and standards that the EU has set, for example the anti-discrimination directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u64	I thought that I was very clear about this: a misuse of this so-called diversity of demagogy, I have no message of it; and b one has to agree, with all the space and with all the variety, that such a decision can be made. It is not the one-sided celebration of Europe with money, and then we say: we are doing our own thing, against European values and agreements. Of course, that's not how it works. Mr. Chairman. I believe I will continue with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u65	Go ahead, Mr. Sheep.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. On this occasion, I would like to raise a subject. I am going to take a completely different tour of the Netherlands Water Partnership which I have often tried to bring to the attention of others, for example through my presidency of the Netherlands Water Partnership. I am referring to the link between migration and the rapid global water crisis. The far-reaching consequences of climate change are currently under discussion. Of course, there are still skeptics who insist that nothing is going on, or who believe that something may change, but that this is completely natural and that measures are wasted money. Only cynics can insist that nothing is going on and that policy is unnecessary. But I don't want to talk about the climate right now, but about a barely noticed assassin. I am referring to the water crisis caused by other human actions, namely the depletion of water resources, both surface water and groundwater. A catastrophic situation of drought and salinization is developing in many regions. However, this disaster does not call for sufficient response in terms of recognition and adequate measures. Meanwhile, the water depletion causes disruptions worldwide, something that will increase rapidly. I am referring to urban regions where the water is almost there. Cape Town must speak to the imagination, but many urban agglomerations will follow. Catastrophic is the result of water scarcity for agriculture, due to the loss of irrigation potential. In many places around the world, people's movements are already taking place, with the necessary geopolitical implications. I'm just pointing to Syria and the Horn of Africa. This is happening all over the world: a water crisis that can hardly be reversed due to inappropriate use of water for irrigation, but also for industrial use and oil and gas extraction. Water resources are depleted in large parts of Africa, the Middle East, China, India and even the USA: reservoirs, rivers and groundwater. Recurrent harvests lead to food scarcity and then migratory flows. It doesn't take much to figure out whether it degenerates into civil wars or worse. The disaster in Syria is partly explained by this. Regions such as Jordan and Iran are already facing similar problems. Regional disruption can easily be followed by international.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u67	I am pleased that Mr Schaap is calling so much attention to the water shortages. But then I wonder why the VVD only calls for more intensive livestock farming for years at a time, which causes an enormous water shortage. For example, the production of 1 kilo of steak costs 15,000 liters of water. Water shortages all over the world contribute significantly to this. Does Mr Schaap agree with me that we should therefore focus on more crop farming and that we should finally start using this transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u68	That story about cattle using so much water, in particular, is somewhat nuanced. Most of the water that cattle take, they also pee nicely. The rest is going to be milk, and we're gonna pee it again. So let's say the balance isn't too bad. Furthermore, I think that about 50% to 60% of the world's agricultural area is grass, and with grass you can only do something useful if you keep animals on it. Almost all that grassland can't be used for anything else, so not for plant production. If we stopped using animal products, the whole food supply would end up on that 40% territory, worldwide, which is suitable for plant production. That means famine. So as long as there is grass, we will have to continue using animal products.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u69	That is a very detailed story in which, as far as I am concerned, there are a lot of assumptions. In any case, it is clear that for a kilo of meat you need seven kilos of grain. You also need a lot of water that must also be clean drinking water, worldwide for all those animals. It is a fact that there is an enormous amount of water involved in livestock farming. If you have animal production in between, it costs a lot more water than you go directly from vegetable to human. Does Mr Schaap also see that you need more water for intensive livestock farming than for crop farming? If so, does he agree with me that we can make that shift from intensive to slightly more plant-based and that this will ultimately save the water supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mind if I step in for a moment? Today we have the General European Reviews. As interesting as this may be, I do not think we are going to have an agricultural debate here. Perhaps Mr. Schaap will be able to reply briefly, but I would like to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. I have to respond in the same way I did at first. I'm very nuanced about the Party for the Animals. I repeat: as long as we have so much grassland worldwide, we must continue to produce animals. I was talking about the disruption of the world's water situation. Emergency situations are developing all over the world. Please note, North China and India are also affected by this. This can affect Europe indirectly, economically and also geopolitically. Food safety can also be achieved through the exercise of power, and China is reasonably good at that. This development demands European geopolitical policy. But such a policy is reactive. It is better to avoid the consequences of the water crisis. This also prevents the relocation of migration flows within the affected regions to our continent. I would just like to say that policies must be developed as soon as possible to mitigate the disastrous consequences of the global water crisis. This cannot be done by an individual country such as the Netherlands, with its enormous knowledge of agriculture and water management. This also requires action on a European scale, i.e. by the EU as a whole. Mr. Chairman. I called the global water crisis an assassin, because this process gradually takes place and threatens habitation. Habitation, because it doesn't stand out. As a result, we're reacting too late. The mitigation of the imminent catastrophe requires rapid and coordinated action. Does the Minister recognise this problem? Is he prepared to take action by raising this issue at EU level? Mr. Chairman. I would like to add another dimension: the imminent water crisis in Europe. Few people will have noticed that a polder landscape like the Netherlands has been hit by something new in the past year: penetrating structural water shortages, leading to historically low river water levels, a rapidly declining groundwater level and salinisation. There are also major problems for shipping and damage to agriculture and nature. So here too a structural and rapidly increasing problem. And already, for this year too, a water crisis is emerging. reactive policies are no longer enough, not here and certainly not in structurally dry areas in Europe. What is happening in the Netherlands is a weak reflection of what is happening across Europe: large-scale water shortages with potentially disruptive effects on agricultural production capacity. In Europe, too, the consequences of climate change are now complementing the unjudged use of water. I would point out that glaciers are melting faster and the consequences for river management. Now you can think: let every country deal with this itself, but that's not how you solve the problems. The major rivers, such as the Rhine or the Danube, are lifebloods for logistics, agriculture, nature and industry. These and other rivers are the main arteries of river basins and deltas that touch not only clusters of countries, but also Europe as a whole. Here too, we are talking about an assassin and far too slow reactions. Again, what is now happening in the Netherlands, the problem of water shortages and falling groundwater levels, is escalating in large parts of Europe. Our country has an excellent infrastructure and an institutional organisation that can do a lot to deal with this problem. However, this does not apply to the rest of Europe. Here too, regional problems with water supply will have cross-border effects. In short, a European approach is needed, as soon as possible and ambitious. I am not thinking here of a headline on climate policy. Because that's not what I'm talking about at first. However, on actions aimed at more careful water use, such as in the agricultural sector, but also on forward-looking water management in a broader sense. It is even necessary to ensure that large-scale drought does not itself trigger climate effects. I would not be a Dutchman if I did not notice that our country, with its great knowledge of agriculture, nature and water management, would not be able to benefit from ambitious Community action. Is the Minister prepared to take up this challenge and raise the issue in Brussels? I'd like to await the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. In more than a month's time, voters in the European Union will be able to vote for the new European Parliament. The current European political elite is deeply concerned if you have to believe some of the reports. For eurosceptic 'populists' are threatening to enter the EP massively. Fear, however, is rarely a good counselor, and that also applies here. Instead of fearing "the anti-European populists," politicians would do better to take seriously the concerns of people who vote for these parties. As far as we are concerned, it is a good thing that there is still more to choose than what the battle seems to be: between Eurofore parties, on the one hand, who only want to give more power to Brussels and, on the other hand, xenophobic nationalists who want to turn their backs on European cooperation and do not want to tackle cross-border problems. Mr. Chairman. It is from this perspective that we want to question the vision of the European Union of this cabinet. I'll do that along two lines. Firstly, by entering into the debate on the lessons to be drawn from the Brexit which has now been postponed but which has not yet been adjusted. For us, the most important lesson is that the EU needs to become much more democratic. More democratic also means more flexibility, with more room for Member States. And it also means borders on the now boundless internal market. Secondly, I would like to talk about what I would call geopolitical temptation. In a world of rival superpowers that are becoming increasingly close to each other in the economic, political and military fields, the call for an EU that can also intervene as a power block in this struggle is increasingly louder. We believe that this is an extremely worrying development. Because our national democracy is at stake here too, but also because the world, and certainly also the security and stability of this continent, is not going to benefit from even more militaristic power politics. Mr. Chairman. Then my first theme: the lessons of Brexit. Although it is true that the ruling Conservatives have made it a bit of a mess, the planned first exit of a Member State should also be a moment of reflection for the EU-27, and a more profound reflection than we have had so far. At the time, the unexpected victory of the leave camp at the brexirefreendum was seen as a wake-up call for the establishment. Both the European Commission and the Heads of Government went on to work well with what was officially called a reflection process. The Commission came up with five scenarios on the future of the European Union, but the exercise was set up in such a way that the preference for the fifth scenario was even more obvious Brussels policy............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Commission President Juncker went one step further, as did President Macron. Although it is clear that the Dutch Government, Minister Hoekstra, is not equally charmed about all Brussels and French plans, what is different from the fact that it can effectively stop them too, there is no alternative vision of European cooperation either. Or does this government have a different vision? If so, we would like to hear that view from the Foreign Minister. We see, above all, a Dutch government which is only being selectively put on the brakes. And so we simply continue on the path taken, albeit not as hard as the French President, or here on land D66, would like. But another direction, one where control comes back where it belongs, namely that of the national democracies, we are certainly not moving in either. How does the Minister see this? Which direction did he say we've been heading since the brexiretum?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u74	Would it be possible for me to intervene in Mr Van Apeldoorn's theorem of "control where it belongs"? We started with the Treaty of Rome and have taken all kinds of steps: Nice, Maastricht and Lisbon. In all these steps, we, the people, have said, with legislation passed in this Chamber too, that there is a shared sovereignty. So there is national sovereignty and there is shared sovereignty. So where it belongs is a normative starting point of the SP, I understand. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u75	The concept of home hearing is always by definition normative. It's a position on where you should organize your democracy. We in SP believe that democracy should be organised as close to the people as possible. Then it's democracy, too. It is indeed not a legal statement, if that is what Mr Backer means. It is a normative political statement on this European Union. We believe that control has been removed too much from Member States and, therefore, from the people, in all kinds of areas that we believe Member States can go about very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u76	That's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. Which direction has the Minister considered we have taken since the Brexireféendum? How does he look back on the earlier reflection process? Does the Minister recognise that the choice of Brexit by a majority of the British were a source of real concern, concerns about a European Union that has deprived Member States of too much control and over-ridden people too much? Does he recognise that these concerns also exist in other Member States? If so, does he consider that these concerns are or are addressed adequately? And if so, how does he think that happens? Because we don't see it. Since the Maastricht Treaty, more than a quarter of a century ago, the EU has become more and more deeply and directly involved in the daily lives of its inhabitants without having been sought and found support for them. It was therefore no surprise that in the Netherlands and in France, by referendum in 2005, the voters rejected the European constitution. Often the rebellious voters were subsequently disciplined by their own governments and the EU, but evil was bloodshed. Many people understand very well that what was once a good plan is that the promotion of peace, social progress and prosperity through close cooperation has become a superstate moloch that no one wants. A moloch who is increasingly creating problems through the ruthless removal of any barrier to economic activity, because in practice the internal market is mainly a crowbar in order to create maximum freedom for big business. Member States give democratic space to restrict this freedom even slightly is considered sacrilege. The internal market is one and indivisible, as the British too have been told. But is what was once a means of social and economic progress not becoming an end in itself? The Minister will say that the internal market is a means for Dutch business to earn money. But is the internal market always good for our society? Mr. Chairman. Is it good for our society if European procurement rules stand in the way of our unique home and youth care? We are pleased that the government in the State of the Union is writing that it wants an exception to the European Public Procurement Directive for social care, but what about this commitment now, and how much does the Minister consider the chance that it will succeed? Doesn't this also refer to a bigger problem? Is this not symptomatic of the rigidity of the internal market? Does this not justify a much more flexible EU? It was recalled this morning by several speakers that the WRR also advocates an EU with more variation. As far as we are concerned, that is an EU in which Brussels is not in charge of matters that the Member States are perfectly capable of dealing with themselves. A lot of people are tired of this forceful landie. We can try to make an exception here or there, but the fact is that the neoliberal dogmas behind this forced country are not affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u78	The SP Group says very clearly: do not deal with issues that Member States themselves can handle at EU level. Which policy areas is Mr Van Apeldoorn thinking of? What are policy areas that he says are not cross-border, so you don't need legislation at European level at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u79	Thanks for the question. I am talking about the internal market and I think that is a good example. As SP, we say: you have to tackle cross-border problems at European level, together. Cross-border problems cannot, by definition, be solved alone. But the EU often creates cross-border problems with the internal market. By removing all barriers to trade, rücksichtslos will make the internal market an end in itself rather than a means. The WRR has also written that the internal market must be a means embedded in the social market economy. Our position would be that the internal market has become too much of an end in itself. I was talking about unregulated labour migration this morning. In doing so, the internal market is not a solution to cross-border problems, but the cause of cross-border problems. In my speech, I will give further examples of cases where the internal market affects, for example, local or national democracy. The problem is that the internal market is actually a quasi-constitution in the European treaties and goes beyond all national and local legislation. This gives Brussels powers, for example, about our care and our public transport, but also about housing and housing corporations. Take the example of the social rental border. We believe that there is a Brussels meddling going on that is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u80	I understand that very well. We also see the disadvantages of the overshot, or neoliberal approach to the internal market. But does Mr Van Apeldoorn not see, like us, that while preserving the internal market, you can make other political choices, for example, by not imposing the obligation to tender on everything, for example, by excluding certain public tasks from it, while at the same time retaining the importance or benefit of the internal market, namely that you can easily trade with one another and create a larger labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u81	Sure. Nor are we in favour of abolishing the internal market as a whole. We say that there must be an end to the limitlessness that the internal market now often represents. We must set limits to the internal market. I think the example given by Mrs Strik is very good. The European Procurement Directive, but also, in conjunction with it, the free movement of services, the Bolkestein Directive that was introduced at the time, is an example of what we believe should be reversed. That does not mean that you are either closing down the entire internal market or closing all the borders. For example, the internal market for goods is fine. However, an internal market for services may conflict with general public interests, or what defines a national democracy as "general public interest." Then it's a matter of public service. I just mentioned all the public transport, care and housing. If you, as a Member State, see general interests that you find to be a matter of public service, which you want to keep out of the market and therefore outside the internal market, then we simply need to be able to do so, as SP. We must also be able to reverse privatisations and so on. At the moment this is not possible in the current European single market and therefore other political choices should indeed be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u82	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u83	I endorse your view on this. I was just afraid that you would be too cynical or negative about the internal market, which brings benefits to many citizens of the Union, in fact everyone. But in this way you could indeed make choices about the same internal market with a much more social perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u84	Yes, but that does mean that those choices have to be made, and that has not been done so far. I don't see the cabinet making choices. I see the cabinet coming up with a letter through the Prime Minister two months ago, written together with 17 other Heads of Government, in which I believe it is mainly in favour of a further deepening of the internal market, without addressing the concerns I am talking about at all. So it would be a completely different internal market than we have now. At the moment, the disadvantages are greater than the benefits. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees this. Mr. Chairman. Is it desirable for European free movement of services, in the name of the indivisible internal market, to exclude local democracy because, for example, a municipal zoning plan would infringe the right of free establishment of businesses? And if the proposed revision of the notification directive continues, then there will also be a prior notification requirement. This means that the plans must be submitted to Brussels in advance. That's crazy, isn't it? My group really does not understand why the government does not see this as a serious breach of local democratic decision-making. This is just an example I would like to give to Mrs Strik. Maybe the Minister can explain that again. Recently, there was the example of the Groningen municipality of Appingedam, which, on this basis, was confronted with the Brussels meddling when it did not want to allow a shoe discount to settle outside the centre, which is empty. Does the Minister really think that this kind of Brussels meddling is desirable and, if so, why? And even more fundamentally, is it desirable that we should have given the so-called freedoms of the internal market through the Treaties and the Court of Justice in Luxembourg the character of a quasi-constitution, which thus goes beyond any other national legislation? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of European Socialists sees that the single market has led to an enormous increase in scale: an even greater concentration of economic power and thus political power in the hands of multinationals and large banks. A recent study by the IMF generally did not conclude a bastion of socialist capitalism criticism.... concluded that the market power of large companies has increased significantly since the turn of the century and that this has been directly at the expense of prosperity and contributed to the ever-disrupting relationship between labour and capital, as seen in a declining labour income ratio and rising inequality. The disease of ever-larger, larger and greatest.... by the Flemish economist Geert Noels giantism is perhaps inherent in capitalism, or at least to the tendency described by Marx of endless concentration and centralization of capital. At the same time, however, it is also the result of policy choices, i.e. the choice of giving capital ample employment, rather than by regulating this trend. Does the Minister recognise that European integration through the internal market has at least contributed to this hugeism, and does he also see it as a problem with the SP Group? Mr. Chairman. If the internal market is too often at the expense of people, animals and the environment and of our democracy, should we not set limits on this now boundless market? I'd like a response from the Minister. And what is wrong with it if, under conditions, Member States could choose not to participate in part of the internal market? Why should it not be possible for a Member State to say that we are not participating in this further liberalisation of financial markets, for example? And why should it not be possible for Member States to regulate the movement of workers through work permits if there is an undesirable influx into parts of their own labour market, one that leads to exploitation and wage dumping? Mr. Chairman. According to many, the Brexit also contributes to a rapidly changing geopolitical context. That brings me to my second theme. It seems as if after the euro crisis and the refugee crisis the EU is now facing a geopolitical crisis. Although the Prime Minister likes to keep dancing with him, the election of Donald Trump has made the US less and less of a reliable partner. While America's power is waning, China appears as a great economic but also military power accelerated. Together, this puts strong pressure on the so-called liberal world order. At least that is the dominant analysis made by this cabinet. The solution to this problem is increasingly looking at the EU. For example, Chancellor Merkel has said that Europe must take more destiny into its own hands and French President Macron, like D66 in the Netherlands, has recently made a clear plea for a European army. The Prime Minister, the third "M" in the current European force field, is also showing quite a different sound today than until recently, when the EU seemed to be only there for Mark Rutte to make money in the internal market. In his Churchill speech in February this year, the Prime Minister argues that the EU should also exercise its power in the geopolitical arena to pursue its own interests. But what geopolitical interests are these exactly? Are the Dutch interests the same as those of Italy, Poland, Hungary, Greece or Portugal? And if there are common interests, what do they look like and why do we call them geopolitics? Unfortunately, the answers to these questions remain unsolved. So maybe the Minister can answer them for me. The word "geopolitical" may have many meanings but usually refers to the relationship between power and territory, and to the rivalry between states. The fact that the EU should act geopolitically therefore seems to imply that the EU should become even more like a federal state and as such become a geopolitical struggle. Is that really where the EU is supposed to go? Is that how the Minister sees it? In his speech, the Prime Minister said that the EU should at least be a political power to take into account in its "own geopolitical backyard." What does "geopolitical backyard" mean? Which countries do they belong to? And has the Foreign Minister already informed these countries that they belong to our geopolitical backyard? Is the EU then in reverse the geopolitical backyard, or perhaps the front yard, of these countries? Wouldn't that be presumptuous? In other words, as far as we are concerned, the Prime Minister should leave out this kind of tough language. It is a neo-imperialist language that does not fit our country or the EU, nor does it contribute to peace and security in the region. Of course, the countries of the European Union must take account of the rapidly changing world and make policies about it. The European Commission has now come up with what is called a "strategic vision" of relations with China. That is welcome in itself, but in my group's view the vision is not very strategic and, above all, not very constructive. In particular, it lists what China must all adhere to and what China must do, but we do not read much about how the EU can contribute to a constructive relationship to strengthen multilateralism within the UN. We are curious to see how the Minister views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u85	I cannot help but think that this is a somewhat acidic approach to China. The SP is leading the way with several groups in this house to highlight the importance of European values. This is precisely what China's vision points out: to make it quite clear 'this is the measuring bar that we are passing with China when it comes to protecting our people, healthy trade relations, promoting friendship and security'. So why now this almost negative approach to China's strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u86	"Only negative" I don't want to say. Once again, the strategy is welcome in itself, but the strategy does not really contain much guidelines for EU action. It is said that China must abide by this and China must abide by it; China should act in this way and should assume this responsibility. We've heard that from the Americans before. Robert Zoellick, the American trade representative, once said: China must be a responsible stakeholder. Who could be opposed to a responsible stakeholder? But there is a bit of the idea behind this: we have once drawn up these rules in the world, America with Western Europe, and it is fine that China now participates as long as it abides by our rules. We are concerned that you should also enter into dialogue with China on how those rules for world order 2.0 should be, let me put it this way. A world order that is multipolar and in which America no longer counts. Then you need to engage in a constructive dialogue. This does not, of course, mean abandoning your own values, for example when it comes to human rights. I didn't want to say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u87	I am glad that the latter is confirmed. I agree with the honourable Member that now that these standards have been set as a starting point in that vision, it is particularly important to take the next step and fill in the market organisation in Europe with the rules that China has to comply with. To be honest, what worries me is an almost overly sympathetic approach to matters concerning China, which, as far as we are concerned, are extremely disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr Postema is now talking to me about everything I have not said. I did not talk at all about China's policy and what we think of it. I am very critical of China in terms of the human rights situation there, but also in terms of China's international action in the South China Sea. There's a lot to be said about that, but that's not the issue right now. I am talking about the extent to which this strategic vision of the EU is now a true strategic vision and contributes to the reflection and development of a constructive relationship based on multilateralism and rules. China should also have something to say about these rules and how they could possibly be changed. I also see that multilateralism is under pressure, as the SP Group sees it, partly because of what is happening in the US, and because Trump is running an America first-policy. I think this should also translate into our attitude towards China. That is not to say that we must distance ourselves from our values, but we must say that we also share interests with China, for example with regard to climate change and other issues, where we can strengthen multilateralism. But what I would have said about China, as Mr Postema just suggested, I did not say. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. The EU has also recently adopted, with the agreement of the Netherlands, a regulation allowing foreign direct investment to be screened. That regulation seems to be directed primarily against China. There is an increasing concern that the Chinese are getting more and more interests in our strategic sectors through our open market, but we remain unclear as to what the government's concerns about so-called 'non-market-driven investments' are based on. In three written rounds of consultations with the Minister of BHOS, we did not receive a satisfactory response. As SP, we have long felt that the takeover market should be restricted and that takeovers by foreign parties are often good for shareholders, but not for the company and its employees. This applies equally to American multinationals as well as to Chinese state-owned companies. And yes, there may be security risks, but we should watch over Chinabasing, let alone declare a new cold war with China as the US does today with so many words. The last thing we should want is to be sucked in as an EU in a new long-term geopolitical struggle for power between the US and China. What we need to be careful about is that it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, that we get what we're afraid of. As I said just now in reply to Mr Postema, just when President Trump is putting so much pressure on multilateralism, China is also an important partner for the Netherlands and for the EU. Does the Minister agree with us? Mr. Chairman. The main starting point for my group remains that no matter how you think about these issues, the primacy of foreign policy, and especially defence policy, must remain with the Member States. This is a question of democratic legitimacy. The Commission has recently proposed to make decision-making in the Common Foreign and Security Policy more "efficient" by voting by qualified majority in a number of cases and the government has responded with enthusiasm. That's a big deal. Foreign and security policy are the core tasks of sovereign national states, and so common policies can only be pursued in the EU on the basis of consensus, but by participating in these Commission proposals, the government is releasing the principle of the primacy of national democracy towards foreign policy by giving our right of veto in areas where we still have that right of veto. If there is one lesson to be learned from the Brexit drama, and I gave it to him earlier, then it should be that the process of European integration has already deprived the Member States too much and has therefore undermined national democracies as well as confidence in the EU. Even more of our right of veto, isn't that the way we should go? Or does the Minister think so? Is it really the message that this government wants to send to the Dutch citizen that if the 'efficiency' of decision-making demands it, then we are prepared to give up our veto? I'd like a response from the Minister. And I would like to answer the question of principle, which we have already put in a written round but which is unfortunately unanswered, whether the government agrees with us that foreign policy is and should remain primarily a national competence and that qualified majority voting is contrary to this. Mr. Chairman. Even more worrying is the threat of militarisation of the EU. During last year's General European Reviews, we have already expressed our concerns about the European Defence Fund as a new step towards a European military industrial complex. Unlike one of its coalition partners, the government says that it is not explicitly in favour of a European army. We welcome this, but at the same time we are not reassured, because the government does not want a European army but participates in PESCO, the permanent structured cooperation in the defence field, and also supports the recent French European Intervention Initiative. The latter should lead to a better, faster "expeditionary commitment', including at EU level. How can that bet look like and what could be needed for such a bet? I'd like clear answers from the Minister. Is this perhaps the defence of the alleged geopolitical interests of the EU in our alleged geopolitical backyard? And what lessons does the EU learn from the disastrous intervention policy pursued by Western countries since the end of the Cold War?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u89	That is a lot of statements by Mr Van Apeldoorn. I actually want to focus on one point. Can he imagine that forms of military cooperation that increase the capacity to act and thus the real capacity to protect the Dutch citizen could be part of the sovereignty agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u90	I would like to say to Mr Backer that the SP has never opposed bilateral military cooperation. If necessary, it can be very clever to do certain things together with the Belgians or with the Germans or with the Norwegians. What we would like to oppose is what we see as a threatening, creeping militarisation of the European Union. My question about this French initiative, the Intervention Initiative, is where this should lead. It is said by the government that it will not become an intervention force, but if you read the declaration of intent, the letter of intent, it clearly states that it must lead to the development of collective capacities that could enable the EU to intervene in defence of certain interests. That sounds to me like a kind of European intervention force. Perhaps it is still in growth, but this is an important step. Then my question is what such an intervention force is for and with what intention the Dutch Government is in favour of it. It is not a question of cooperation, but of establishing a new European military capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u91	I think the Minister will answer that and I think we are looking at this very fundamentally differently. Because of course what you signal as great fear is just going on for a long time. But I was concerned with the more underlying question, which you have actually answered a bit side by side, if the capacity of Dutch protection can be increased by working together and that cooperation goes beyond bilaterally with the Belgians, with the Germans and with the English together, and that would in real terms provide more security for the citizen, would that at least be a problem for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u92	If it were to create a European capacity for action, which would allow us to vote once again on the basis of a qualified majority and thus lose the right of veto in the Netherlands, then I would say: yes, that affects our sovereignty in an unacceptable way. Yeah, that sounds clear to me. Moreover, I would like to follow up on my argument.... my other point: have we learned the lessons of the previous policy of intervention? We, as the EU, are now deeply concerned about the situation in Libya, which is in danger of slipping into an even more violent form of lawlessness. But how did Libya end up in that anarchy, which has also provided all the space for terrorists, human beings and gun smugglers? Indeed, because NATO, led by France, chose to bomb Libya as a regime change. Is that the way the EU should go? I'd like a response from the Minister. Does the Minister recognise that all this is at least a step towards the militarisation of the EU? And are we not being messed up by the European army that D66 wants? Are we not going to say 'yes' after all, as we have seen many times recently, I am thinking of the EPPO, which has made criminal law an EU competence which we initially say we are opposed to? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a word about the other European treaty organisation, the Council of Europe. It does not make the front pages, but here there is a threat of a ruxit, a departure from the Russian Federation, which would remove 140 million inhabitants of this largest Member State under the protection of the ECHR and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Many important Russian human rights organisations call on us not to allow that to happen. Last week, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, of which several senators are members on behalf of the Netherlands, approved by a remarkably large majority the proposals made by my colleague Tiny Kox for a new way forward for Europe's oldest and largest human rights organisation, which is celebrating its 70th anniversary this year. The Kox report was drawn up after opinions from the 47 Member States' parliaments, including ours, in good consultation with the Chairman of the Committee of Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. Three questions: is the Minister aware of the proposals contained in the Kox report adopted, does he share them and is he prepared to include them at the forthcoming Helsinki Conference in order to find a way out of the current political and financial crisis of the Council of Europe? And what about the EU's accession to the ECHR? Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech. The State of the Union does not vote cheerful. There is a great deal of division behind the cramped unity of the EU-27 towards the British. And behind the fact that, in the context of the ongoing Brexit drama, support for EU membership is increasing, there is still a great discontent about Brussels' meddling, a discontent about a needlessly radical, uniforming and alienating EU. An EU is also being pumped into a lot of money and often spent on the wrong things, such as intensive, industrial agriculture, or on the European arms industry, apart from waste and fraud. We therefore call on the government, in the negotiations on the new MFF, not to give in to the pressure to increase the budget even further. People really see the value of European cooperation, but they do not want to lose control of developments and do not understand why the same rules should always apply everywhere, even if they go against local or national democratic choices. The EU must therefore be more flexible and therefore more democratic. In this respect, the commitment of this cabinet to the EU and its future has so far been disappointing, but it is not too late. Let us take the concerns and discontent of the people of the EU seriously, precisely in order to prevent it from coming to an implosion of the entire European project. Therefore, let us not cling to the Europe of forced unity, a unity that is far from always and does not have to be complete. Even though there are issues and values that bind us, there are also great differences in the current EU: economic, cultural and political. So why a European Union from one size fits all from Athens to Appingedam, and from Leiden to Lisbon? Let us celebrate the differences rather than sticking to a Europe of forced unity. And working together on the basis of this diverse European Union, while preserving our national democracy, to tackle truly cross-border problems: from tax avoidance to migration and the existential issue of climate change. So it is not right to create problems by deepening the European market more and more, or by forcing a unity in the field of foreign policy that is not there, and by allowing us to be tempted by dangerous political illusions of power. In the meantime, as always, we look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I see that the next speaker has signed up for 25 minutes. This means that it will be very tight if there will also be an interruption. So I'm actually coming to the conclusion that it's better to suspend now. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
