ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law amending various education laws by Members Kwint and Westerveld in order to prevent pupils of parents who have not paid a voluntary contribution from being excluded from activities. It's Room 35063. I would, of course, like to start by welcoming the initiators. They are supported in box-K by Petra Schijvenaars, co-worker of the SP group, Thomas Drissen and Charifa Soulami, both employees at GroenLinks. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office has already taken place on 25 September. Today's answer is on the table and on the full second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u2	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Kwint for the first-term answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The admission may be subject to the financial contribution of parents. Well, I think that everyone in this house should fight that position in principle, because that brings us back into the Middle Ages." This text comes from the former PPR member of the late Henk Waltmans, who opposed an amendment in 1981 that would allow schools to refuse children if their parents had not paid the parental contribution. And quite a few MPs from the past came along in the Chamber's contribution. Remi Poppe, Joyce Vermue, Jasper van Dijk, Sharon Dijksma; all of them are called, but also Jan de Vries, Manja Smits and Tofik Dibi. They could have all been mentioned. They have all endeavoured to counteract the undesirable effects of the supposed voluntary parental contribution. But this was the first one we could find: Henk Waltmans in 1981. For the record, that's before Mr Westerveld and I were born. As early as 1981 the impact of the parental contribution on access to education was warned. In your first term, for which we both thanked, a lot of options have already been put forward in all these years. Let me mention a few: Maximising, abolishing, making income dependent, making payments only by those who can spare it. All these options have been reviewed several times since 1981, but the problem still exists. I would like to say to anyone who wishes to discuss the future of the parental contribution: wait until we are back on the other side of the microphone. We like to have that discussion, but not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u4	Mr. Kwint, speaking of microphone, could I ask you to step back a little? Because you speak loud and clear, but we can...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u5	Yeah, I hear that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u6	We can't turn it down. The listeners who want to listen to this a little quietly can do better if you take a little distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u7	Is it better this way, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u8	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u9	Look, we're gonna try it this way. Yes, I'm not waiting for Mr. Heerema's permission. We are happy to discuss the parental contribution, but we are not discussing the form of the parental contribution today. If we had wanted to maximise the parental contribution, as Joyce Vermue and Jasper van Dijk suggested, we would have suggested. If we wanted to go for income-dependent or total abolition, we would have put that in the law. We don't. We have decided to focus our proposal on the most painful excesses of all the hassle of whether or not to pay for the parental contribution: the exclusion of children who are not part of it, who come to school on Fridays without their fault, see all their boyfriends getting in the backpack, then waving off the bus together with the parents of other children and then getting into the classroom to do calculations, because it is just school time. That is what we want to make impossible and what we heard broad support for. I repeat to Mr Heerema: it is unbelievable that there are schools where governance and participation make this choice, but I answer immediately one of the questions he has asked but also others - this is not a marginal phenomenon. In the School Cost Monitor of recent years, 14% of parents in primary education and 18% of parents in secondary education indicate that children are excluded from their school from activities if parents have not paid the parental contribution. Add to that that 30% to 40% of parents indicate that they do not know and then you know that the percentage is actually even higher. That is our answer to one of the criticisms made by the Council of State: does the scale of the problem justify such a heavy instrument as a law? Yes, as far as we are concerned, firstly because it has been discussed for decades: 38 years ago, because the scale of the problem is very strong, and thirdly because all the other possibilities, such as sectoral agreements, agreements, statements of councils, intention agreements and moral apples, have already been tried. It hasn't had any effect. Legislation here is not just a matter of quick scoring or cutting the corner short, but a logical conclusion after 38 years of discussion. One in nine children in the Netherlands grows up in poverty. One in nine children lives in a family that constantly suffers from the question: is there enough money? Such a family has to make ends meet, often has no room for extras and unfortunately a child cannot always offer the best opportunities, however much one wants. Of course, this bill doesn't solve all these problems. That'd be great. But what it does solve is becoming painfully visible the fact that children cannot come home because of poverty. We read about that again today in the DUO report. We want to answer the questions now that I can finally say that in cubes. Mr Westerveld will soon kick off and consider the issue of segregation and inequality of opportunity. I will then come back to the many questions asked about differences in educational provision, concept schools, technasia and so on, after which Mr Westerveld closes and may talk about the other side effects. I would now like to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Westerveld. Oh, there's a question from Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u10	It's wonderful to see a colleague here so enthusiastically in Vak-K. Well, that deserves a compliment. Mr Kwint indicated that we are discussing this law today, but it was a member of one of the proposing groups, Mr Renkema, who already took an advance on the future of the parental contribution. It wasn't the coalition that did that. Mr Renkema said that we should actually work towards a situation where there are no parent contributions at all. Can I understand it so that the view for GroenLinks and the SP is now in the fridge, and that we don't go on some kind of slippery slope with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u11	I would be slightly overplaying my hand if I wanted to speak in front of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. We have both said in the explanatory statement that we can imagine very much that there would be no parental contribution at all. But we want to address this problem. Whether there is a parent contribution or not, as far as I am concerned, we are going to have hundreds of debates on that. A little less would be nice, by the way. But our intention with this bill is nothing more and nothing less than tackling the exclusion that arises when parents cannot pay the parental contribution. That is what we hope to achieve with your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u12	Mrs Westerveld, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u13	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank our fellow chamber members for their input. It's also nice to have the minister sitting next to us. Mr. Chairman. At the heart of our task as representatives of the people is to stand up for that small minority. Because while most schools try to keep that parental contribution low and organise an affordable school trip, most schools also make good arrangements so that all children can participate, especially those whose parents do not have that much to spend, we also see examples where things are not going well. And unfortunately, that happens too often. It is a tragedy for every child if he or she is not allowed to go because of the parents' financial situation. A child who sees all the classmates on the bus, but who is left with the replacement assignment. A child like that, of course, remembers his life. It's also of all times. One of my friends told me how all the kids used to get school milk in his class, but that he was skipped handing out the packages because his parents couldn't pay the parent's contribution. He still remembers that decades later. We also get examples of children who are refused at the graduation ceremony, the christmas tournament or the Sinterklaas celebration. Last summer, I was e-mailed by a teacher. He wrote: "Last year one of my mentor students was not allowed to join because of payment problems. The mother of the student in question tried to keep her head above water. And the parent's contribution to the theme park was really a problem. This year one of my mentor students wouldn't be allowed to come. That's what I've been really worried about again. In this case, it was again a vulnerable pupil." Luckily, thanks to their brave mentor, these students could finally come along. Mr. Chairman. These are a number of examples, but they are facing a bigger problem. Because, as Mr Kwint has already outlined, and also the colleagues in their first-term contribution, the parental contribution is voluntary under the law but is not, in practice, seen as voluntary. We don't think of it ourselves. This is also evident from 38 years of discussion in the Chamber and from the most recent School Cost Monitor, which was commissioned by the Ministry of Education and Science. The fact that it is not unusual at all to exclude children has recently been shown by a brochure from School Cash register, an administration system that allows schools to keep track of which parents have paid and have not paid the voluntary parental contribution. In that brochure it became clear that you could turn on a check mark if not paid, after which the parents were automatically informed that the child would be excluded. This brochure also suggests that there are different types of parental contributions, voluntary and compulsory. We often hear that from parents too. Fortunately, the company behind it has now said "this was not our intention; we should have done this differently," but it shows that excluding children in some places is quite common and that it can even be automated via a system. Mr. Chairman. Our education is a responsibility of all of us. That is precisely why education must be a place where every child has equal opportunities. A child should not be the victim of the parents' wallet, and certainly not at school. We know that this is a broader problem that plays a role in society as a whole, but it is precisely in schools, for which we are all responsible, that inequality of opportunity must be reduced as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear straight away: this bill ensures that children cannot be excluded from activities organised by the school if their parents cannot pay the voluntary parental contribution. It regulates nothing more and nothing less. It ensures that a child can no longer be used as leverage to allow parents to pay the voluntary parental contribution. Schools are allowed to talk to parents in all kinds of other ways, and they can also ask in all kinds of other ways whether parents can pay the parental contribution, but they can no longer use the child as a bargaining tool. That is what we are asking for in this bill. Mr. Chairman. Exclusion is perhaps the biggest form of inequality of opportunity, because you don't even get a chance to go on that school trip, that performance, or that educational trip. What is a worse form of inequality of opportunity than that only children of parents with a full wallet get access to additional programs? Mrs van den Hul also pointed out in her contribution on equal opportunities. She asked about the effect on equality of opportunity and segregation. She also mentioned that 3% of parents in primary education have had an impact on school choice. Some people might say '3% is not much', but I say with Mrs van den Hul that that is 3% too much, because it should be zero children instead of three in 100 children. This bill should also help to ensure that parents are no longer guided by the school costs that have already been made clear in the school guide in advance. Mr Futselaar of the SP also made this point. He also indicated that in the discussion it is very often about the difference between not being able to pay or not wanting to pay. He said that's actually the wrong discussion. I agree with him because we have agreed, in principle, that basic education is free, precisely to give children as much chance as possible. A contribution of its own may be requested, but it is no more than that, a question. I repeat that to Mr Futselaar. Mr Van Meenen also said that nicely. He indicated that when a school draws up an additional education programme, the school also does so in the interests of the student. This includes intrinsically that it must also be accessible to every student. The best education for all students is a tough condition. Everyone should be given the chance to have a richly-spent education programme. We thought that was very nicely put. It is not for nothing that we should dwell on the issue of equality of opportunity for so long. Unfortunately, education does not yet provide the basis for equal opportunities for all children. We also know that some children are already lagging behind in school, for example because the parents have never studied or because the parents do not speak Dutch very well. I would like to emphasise this not only for parents who have a different cultural background. We also know that too early a selection is being made in the Netherlands and that children who are not always ready should make the choice for further education too early. We also know that the shortage of teachers has the greatest impact on children living in neighbourhoods with socio-economic disadvantage and on children going to special education. This inequality is compounded by the increasing use of private education by parents who can afford it. Shadow education is also the name for various forms of tutoring and exam training.. takes a huge flight. The sad thing is that this does not necessarily apply to children who have the most difficulty. Children who already do vwo and whose parents can often afford to pay for it, go to tutoring most often. These parents also pay the most for tutoring and exam training, as the report on supplementary and private education, which has recently been commissioned by OCW, shows. The same report also shows that the estimated expenditure on shadow education for parents in secondary education is now between 142 and 207 million per year. That's a big deal. That number, the expenses of parents, is growing up all the time. Mr Beertema, who unfortunately is not here today, made a number of comments. One of his comments was: if a school organises paid tutoring, homework guidance, exam training and other forms of extra support, it should be made accessible to all pupils. We also wholeheartedly support this remark. I would like to point out that in its opinion the Council of State stated that it is not allowed for a school to offer paid exam training. But the reports I mentioned earlier and also practical examples show that they do. Mr Futselaar specifically asked about the impact of this bill on expensive foreign school trips. He asked: isn't it a bit sad as the best way that schools have to distinguish themselves, with everything you can choose from in the Netherlands, are the school trips? He mentioned the example of the €999 contribution for a trip to China. I'd like to say to him that some trips also caused our eyebrows to frown. I would ask colleagues to look on Google for terms such as "school trip abroad." Then you will find dozens of providers, not only for the traditional Rome trip, to which many students have good memories, but also for tailor-made trips to China, Canada or the United States. You can book them all through those travel agencies. Of course, that's great, but you don't do that for a couple of tens. Unfortunately, like Mr Futselaar, we also see that this kind of travel in schools is sometimes used as a sign. You would, of course, prefer that the starting point is the quality of education and not the school trips. At the same time, we also see that there are very nice educational trips that are a nice addition to the curriculum. I would like to stress once again to my fellow Members that our bill does not prohibit school travel. We don't do that in any way. In most cases, our proposal would not even affect trips organised by schools. But this proposal does change the situation where a school says that your parents can't pay the contribution and that's why we don't think you should come as a student. We do want to ban it, because we do not think that should be possible. That has everything to do with equal opportunities, which I have just pointed out. We believe that this also means that all pupils should be able to travel abroad if the school organises them. A number of MPs also mentioned the level of parental contributions. Het Open Venster in The Hague was also mentioned. I would like to endorse what my fellow Members have said that we also frowned our eyebrows several times when we saw what great contributions are sometimes asked by schools. Sometimes that runs towards the €10,000. That's quite a huge amount, especially when you're talking about a voluntary parental contribution. Our bill also changes that if parents cannot pay that contribution, the child should be able to go to school and participate in all the activities organised by the school. We would like to take up the suggestion made by Mr Van Meenen, among others. He said: take such developments and the effects into account in the evaluation. I would like to stress, however, that this evaluation is ultimately carried out by the Ministry of Education, so we are also looking specifically at the Minister. This was my contribution to equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u14	It's like this really fast. You wonder if it would have anything to do with the alternative program on Veronica. I will take care of the part of the fragmentation and concept schools, which was a lot of attention in the first term of my colleagues. The question as to the extent to which the risk of disruption of supply is real, the Chamber rather split up in two during the first term. Roughly speaking, the reactions are divided into groups on the one hand, which think that parents will also be willing, if possible, to pay the voluntary parental contribution without any means of excluding their child. On the other hand, there are groups that believe that this will mean, for example, the end of bilingual education. Let me start by highlighting very briefly what is actually changing this law, because there was quite a misunderstanding about that. We do not change the authority of a school to ask for a parental contribution. We do not change the power to determine the amount of the parental contribution. All we are doing is removing the leverage from excluding children as a stick behind the door to force parents to pay. So anyone can participate, regardless of the thickness of the parents' wallet. We are not alone in that belief. Minister Slob explicitly used these words last March in relation to, among other things, bilingual education and technasia. I repeat it to him: "Every child must have the education best suited to him or her, regardless of the parents' financial situation." That's what he told the VO board. Several parent organisations, children's rights organisations, educational clubs, trade unions and other stakeholders have also underlined this point of departure and expressed their support for this law. Here too, we express our thanks to all those organisations that have stuck their necks out. This strengthens our conviction that there is a great deal of support for the path we have chosen in both education and society. There wasn't just praise. In the meantime, we have answered all the e-mails sent from the bilingual education and the VO Council after the lobby. We found out that a big part was based on misunderstandings after all. For example, there were school boards who thought that we would abolish the parental contribution. I shall repeat it here: we do not do that. School authorities also said that in practice they have always come to a solution that prevents exclusion. Then I say to them, "Good work, and nothing will change for you." But there was also a school director who thought it was the most normal thing in the world to exclude children from these programmes, because he also paid for his children's piano lessons and tennis lessons. Yeah, then we're not gonna agree. And quite a few school directors asked us to make a distinction between the parents who don't want to and who can't pay. As much as we understand it and as appealing as it sounds, to a greater or lesser extent, Mr Renkema, Mr Beertema, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Heerema and Mr Rog asked for it; they have all said it. Why? The core of the parental contribution, as laid down in all the laws, is precisely that it is voluntary. It is not because of this bill, but it has been for a long time. If we wanted to finish quickly, I would say that this is a little outside the scope of this bill. But I always find that annoying when I'm on the other side of the room, so I won't do that to you. However, for reasons of substance, we are concerned about this direction, because what bureaucracy is this going to create and what objections does this raise when it comes to the privacy of pupils and parents? How do you determine whether or not someone is able to pay the parental contribution? Do you have to take your paycheck to the principal, or with your tax returns or with your bank statements? Eventually, your spending pattern is also relevant for how much money you have left. It seems to us that this is as bureaucratic as it may be bad for privacy. We were in contact with a school for bilingual education in Utrecht, which told us very proudly: we already have an arrangement. But in practice, that scheme means that you are only eligible for remission when you have a so-called U-pass. For those who are not familiar with Utrecht: that is a pass for poorer Utrechters, which you get up to an income of €20,000 to €21,000 gross per year. I can tell you that even with a slightly higher income a contribution of €500 for your child's high school is really too much money. Then there's the risk of disruption. I would like to reply with a kind of compilation, a kind of 'best of', of the contributions by Mr Futselaar, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bertema, who unfortunately is not here. For, as Mr Futselaar said, we cannot say with certainty that payments will not fall. He's right. We can't. We are optimistic about the extent to which parents are willing, if they can, to support their children, but we cannot say that with certainty. We are simply saying that exclusion can never be the solution. Children cannot be excluded. And, I repeat, Mr Bertema, little money can be too much. And if useful programmes are at risk, perhaps in the long term extra money will be needed from the lump sum to give every student access to good, beautiful extras, as Mr Van Meenen said. So I say the following in response to Mr Beertema when he was a little out of compliments; I suspect he is watching. We should not go to the same gray Trabant for everyone, as he told us, but everyone should be able to stand a chance at just as beautiful Porsche as Mr Beertema. So yes, Mr. Renkema, Mr. Rog, Mr. Heerema and all the others, we have considered to see if we can record the difference between being able and willing to pay. But at the heart of it is two things for us. One. We sincerely believe that parents are willing to arrange something nice for their children when they can afford it. And two. If we find these programmes of such added value that we really want to avoid their destruction, should we not, bearing in mind the words of Minister Slob and Mr Van Meenen, ensure that these programmes can also be followed when you are not blessed with parents with a big wallet? Once again, I quote Mr Van Meenen, whom I have never done so much in one day: programmes that explicitly exclude students whose parents cannot afford it, serve as instigators of inequality of opportunity and division. Most of the courses that have written to us have told us that children do not exclude them at school is already the practice. Great. Congratulations. Nothing's gonna change. In addition, we have also made a round through the school guides of schools offering bilingual education. Most of the extra costs are not in the Cambridge exams or in the salary costs of teachers. That's in excursions, travels and exchanges. So even if you start from the black scenario that parents massively no longer pay, which we, once again, do not believe in, any deviation would primarily occur in the offer of excursions, exchanges and trips, and not in the education program. Mr. Heerema asked for specific attention to the top sports schools. To gain access to these schools you must have a special status recognized by NOC*NSF. But, and that is precisely our central point, is it not the opposite of what Mr Heerema says? He points out the possible unequal opportunities for sports talents, caused by our law, because they are limited in the possibilities that exist. But is it not the current system, with top-level sports education only for children of parents who can afford it, which is bad for equality of opportunity? Wouldn't it make much more sense that NOC*NSF, when it believes that a young person has great talents, doesn't make participation in adapted education conditional on the parents' wallet? In fact, Mr Heerema has to agree with us, because he has tabled an amendment to the budget to make more money available, with my warm support, to support young top sportsmen from poorer families. For example, our law also makes the Loot schools accessible to children with less money. Furthermore, Mr. Lordema said that your children, as well as you do not want to punish them for the financial situation at home, do not want to be the victims of others who cannot pay the contribution. We agree wholeheartedly with him, but we note that the first is actually the practice in a lot of schools. Children were the victims of the financial situation at home, and not only in schools offering bilingual education, technasium or top-level sports education, but in many more schools. Just this part of the problem our law wants to do something about. When it comes to the second part, namely not letting them fall victim to others who do not pay, what Mr Van Meenen said in the first period seems very useful to us: "Take any change in that offer with us in the evaluation of the law. Look what is happening and do not hesitate to intervene, should the effects be firmer than we all expect." This is also the reason why we are not necessarily enthusiastic about the intention to introduce exceptions into the law now, because these exceptions maintain exclusion and division. And that is exactly what we are trying to avoid with our legislative proposal. Moreover, I cannot stress it often enough, and we do not believe that parents are essentially freeriders who want to arrange something for their child for as little money as possible. I do not think I have quoted Mr Rog yet. He spoke very sensible words on behalf of the CDA in this context. Children must never be excluded. Voluntary is voluntary. And shouldn't we make a moral appeal to parents that they will continue to pay when they can? The reason we didn't include that in the law is because we didn't find it a place to do a moral appeal. But if the Chamber, and the CDA in particular, wants to do so, we are happy to participate. We think it's a really good idea. We are surprised, however, that Mr Rog is a co-signatory of Mr Heerema's amendment, which has a much more binding character and gives schools de facto permission to continue to exclude children. So voluntary doesn't seem entirely voluntary after all. Let me go further on the amendment. We didn't quite get out of the text. It is about the special organization of education, which is not further defined and is not specified in any other education legislation. We have no doubt that the concepts often mentioned in the first term include DAMU, Loot and bilingual education. But what if a school also offers Spanish or a broad substructure of havo and vwo up to and including the third grade or korfball during the gym or stage on Friday afternoon, which itself calls a special arrangement of education? At our reading, we do not have a single stick in our hands to deny a school the right to withdraw from our law, so we get the situation that schools can put themselves in a very special position and we, as legislators, cannot argue with it. It also talks about the right to continue to ask for a voluntary parental contribution. But, again, that doesn't affect our law. That right just stays in place. Schools can simply continue to ask for a voluntary parental contribution. In addition, a more practical point, which I have just touched, is that the opposition to this law comes mainly from schools for bilingual education, with the majority of the parental contribution being devoted to excursions and travel. What we are fighting is that bilingual education itself is under pressure. It is true, however, that we cannot rule out the possibility that, if a school is unable to demonstrate the added value of, for example, multiple trips abroad to parents, they may not all be able to continue in the future. Of course, that's not funny, because I understand that it's a very nice experience, but that's not the same as breaking up education. Thirdly, as Minister Slob said, should there be no additional education programmes if schools are not allowed to make a compulsory contribution to this, I shall initially opt for a more limited education offer, although accessible to all pupils. Education that is paid for by all of us must be accessible to all our children. That is why we reject this amendment for legal, practical and ideological reasons. We are counting on the support of the cabinet. Mr Van Meenen takes it more subtlely; I must give him that. He is looking for a code that has already been announced by schools for bilingual education, requiring schools to have a binding system that prevents exclusion if parents cannot pay and also impose sanctions against it if schools do not comply with it. You could say that this is exactly what the law wants, namely that no one is excluded, and that the amendment is therefore superfluous, but we see the demand from schools for space to be able to organise this themselves. That does not alter the fact that we continue to weigh the risk of divergence and have questions about what it means if you step away from the voluntary nature of these specific schools and move towards paying for those who can. Then we'll come back to the question of whether you're gonna have to take your bank statements past the warden later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u15	There is no misunderstanding: D66 is going to support this law, regardless of what happens to the amendment. So that is not a means of exerting pressure, but it is an attempt to address the fears of a number of schools. I was at a meeting of 150 school leaders in bilingual education. There are genuine concerns there. What I intend to do with the amendment is exactly what the law is about. So I hope that the proposers will have some sympathy for that. If the amendment is adopted and the code and binding agreements are introduced, the final effect is exactly the same as what the proposers want, namely that no child is excluded from the activities. Does Mr Kwint agree with me? Does he have any sympathy for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u16	I know Mr Van Meenen as a good listener. I also suspect that he heard the difference in tone between his response and the assessment of his amendments and those of Mr Heerema and Mr Rog. Of course, this proposal is a lot more in line with what we intend to do with our legislative proposal. We find Mr Heerema and Mr Rog's proposal far too unfocused. We really believe that this will reverse an important part of the proposed legislative amendment. That is certainly true. We are still left with the point that you renounce the concept of voluntary parental contribution, while this is reasonably enshrined in our education legislation. The point of bureaucracy, what are you going to do to prove that someone can't pay, remains a concern for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u17	I understand. That is also a matter of concern to me. I also do not want to see pay slips and welfare payments being magical. My amendment does not state that this should be done. It actually says that the schools guarantee it. There's a lot of ways to do that. School leaders can also rely on what parents say about it. It's a lot to have to take that step. Anyway, if you say you can't afford it... That is actually the same as in the current situation. Only then, based on the trust that someone doesn't just do that, you're gonna make up for it. That's how I see it. In addition, my amendment states that the Minister may be able to impose additional requirements on the scheme, if it becomes crazy or if such a draft code is really contrary to the intentions of the law. Then the Minister should also make additional demands on that code. I hope that the proposers will at least look at it in that way and further sympathy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u18	Anything else? There.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u19	I don't know exactly how to ask around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u20	Mr. Van Meenen is asking for the utmost of my ideological flexibility today. I'm sure I can see the direction he's moving in. As I said, the intentions and the starting points are, in my opinion, identical. We like that. We are left with the point that we consider this discrepancy to be different. We really think that this gap will primarily occur in the provision of travel and excursions and less in the provision of education. Mr. Van Meenen is right when he says that we should stay away from all kinds of bureaucratic matters, like going to the school director's paychecks. It is also true that this is not in his amendment. But the fact that it's not there also means that you can't completely prevent it. That is still a matter of concern to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u21	In any case, I would like to say that I welcome the tone of the proposers. It's already less laconic. They are already less committed to the additional damage that may arise for these profile schools. This is without prejudice to the fact that Mr Kwint has his own views on amendments. Of course, that's understandable. My question to him is how he stands about the covenant that the schools for bilingual education have now agreed with each other. They have agreed on a financial support scheme for parents who are unable to pay. They also conform to their assessment. Schools that do not meet this requirement can therefore no longer have that predicate. In fact, that doesn't make them such a school anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u22	To some extent I have replied to Mr Van Meenen. I think that is a step in the right direction. Absolutely. This does not alter the fact that it introduces the distinction between not being able to pay and not wanting to pay. That is a step away from the concept of voluntary parental contribution, as we have laid down in the law. I mentioned in my speech the example of a school for bilingual education in Utrecht. I put that arrangement next to the code. I suspect that school is in line with what it looks like now, but the details of that code are not yet known. I do not know to what extent of detail that will be filled in. Frankly, we are not reassured, because from €100 above the level of assistance would fall outside their forgiveness category, while amounts of €500, €600, €700 are really too high to ask from someone with such a low income. This does indeed affect the accessibility of the education paid for by all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u23	That's true, so we need to look at how it's filled out. We will soon have this law, which may have broad support. At the same time, there is concern about those profile schools. To this end, agreements or separate arrangements are now being made, not directly by the state, but by those schools, by those communities, in consultation, including with parents, if it is up to my group and some others. Isn't that a nicer way to go? In addition, the Christmas breakfast and regular travel are of course covered by the scope of this law, but that extra curriculum is funded by the parents who can do so, on which agreements are made. Isn't it better to leave it there than to impose it here from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u24	Well, that's been the government's stance for 38 years, and the problem still exists. As I said earlier in my reply, 14% of parents in primary education and 18% of parents in secondary education claim exclusion in their schools if the parental contribution is not paid. We can almost cover the walls here with all the covenants that have been sealed. Don't get me wrong, I think it's a nice step from the dome for bilingual education. I think it's a good thing they're doing that. I also think it is evidence of some awareness and awareness of social change that they have taken that step. But at the end of the day, at the heart of the matter is that the education we all finance must also be accessible to everyone. In our view, it is appropriate that non-payment of the parental contribution should not lead to exclusion. I believe that there is a difference of opinion. Once again, I cannot stress it enough, we have all read these e-mails seriously, but we really think that the risks of disruption are very low, because the vast majority of the costs a school incurs are primarily related to excursions and travel. Once again, an excursion can be an incredibly useful, fun and educational experience, but you cannot say that bilingual education will end. In that sense, we take these concerns into account. We have talked to enough school directors and school leaders to see that they really have serious concerns about it, but that has not convinced us to move away from this central issue of education paid for by everyone, accessible to everyone. I owed Mr Rog an answer on the Leergeld Foundation. In many ways, this is the same question, but it is a different one. Don't we hit less well-equipped families when the offer is out of balance? I have said six times now, I believe, that we consider the concerns about the disruption of the offer somewhat differently, but that we are prepared to include that part in the monitoring and evaluation of the law, as Mr Van Meenen said in the first term. We are especially happy and grateful for the important work that the Stichting Leergeld does. We also see that the foundation is not active in more than a quarter of the municipalities and that it has to do with a significant increase in the number of applications. Let us also not forget that the Leergeld Foundation does a lot more than just school trips. I call it membership of the sports association, sportswear, music lessons, drama, scouting, a bike or a laptop at school. Then the poverty among children in the Netherlands is still so high.. one in nine children grows up in poverty.................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, we don't think it is. The Leergeld Foundation itself agrees with us, since in practice almost all local youth funds use a maximum amount for the application from around €200 to €300. Moreover, even after this legislative proposal, we still see an important role for the Learn Money Foundation. The parental contribution shall not be prohibited and shall not be limited. So when schools finally, in consultation with parents who can't afford it and the Foundation for Learning Money, see an opportunity to bring children, we actually only welcome that in the future. Then I would like to deal with the other side effects, unless there are still questions, and so often I am not here to give the floor to Mr Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u25	Go ahead, Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u26	I'll be on the cube of varia. We always see the Minister do that at the end, so we want to follow that good example. A number of questions have been asked about the effects of our legislative proposal on other matters. I hope he will listen to me, Mr Bertema, and say that we are limiting the influence of participation. That's right. At present, the participation council has the right of consent to the voluntary parental contribution and to its use. They will continue to do so in our proposal, but what we are changing is that participation also has the right to say: if you do not pay that voluntary parental contribution, then a child cannot come along. So in that sense, we are indeed limiting what participation is given to say. We believe that this is a very justified restriction to bring it into national law. We also think this is because, as legislators, you establish frameworks within which the participation council takes decisions. We find this subject so relevant that it belongs to us in a law. One reason for this is that we want to continue to emphasise that we see inequality in schools. If it is decided at one school that the parental contribution is several hundred euros and a ten euros in the other school, it will have a selective effect. If a child can be excluded from paying an amount, then it has a stronger selection effect. Then as a welfare parent, you certainly don't put your child in a school where that parent's contribution is high. Furthermore, it has been asked whether it is true that schools should not use the parental contribution for additional staff. We have looked into this and have been able to read on the site of the Ministry of Education that the contribution is intended for extra activities for students and not for the primary process. We read it in such a way that it is the intention of the law that this parental contribution should certainly not be allocated to additional staff. Also from the point of view of business, we do not think it is wise to cover structural costs from a voluntary contribution. But we can't agree with the law to rule this out either. That question was also put to the Minister in the first term, and we are also very curious as to what he is going to answer. Mr Heerema said that he would find it much more interesting to see whether municipalities that do not participate in schemes for children in poverty could not be pushed gently so that these children might be able to participate or that it might be enforced nationwide. In fact, he is asking whether we could not better direct municipalities and perhaps also whether we could not reverse the decentralisation of poverty. I think that is a new position of the VVD. It would be very interesting to have the debate on this. I also think that this is going to be a very nice discussion, but I don't think it should be in this place right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u27	I think that the municipalities play a good role in this at the moment, especially when you see what different arrangements they have that are best suited to the people in their congregation. I just think we can help people find the right arrangements if they don't know them. This was also the intention of my amendment, in reply to Mr Kwint, in relation, for example, to children in poverty families who are talented. I want to make sure that it is possible for that special group to participate in education and other opportunities for them. So it would not be so much a question of getting something back to the national government as of making it as much known as possible. I wondered whether the proposers would see a role for themselves or for the law they have submitted to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u28	We do not so much see a role for ourselves. It is true, of course, that the rules are more unknown to those who have less to spend and therefore need it most. That's what you see in a lot of other arrangements. That's a bigger problem. In fact, it would be good if schools and municipalities were to be better coordinated on what arrangements are in place and how best to use them. This also applies to many other activities, because municipalities do more of that money. For example, cultural activities or sports activities are often also partly paid out of municipal jars as far as children are concerned from families that are more difficult to survive. We do hope that this law will have the effect that schools will find municipalities easier. In the end, we also hope that parents will find municipalities easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u29	I think we're talking about the same thing. I think we're in this the same way. The search is: how can we ensure that this is done as well as possible? Maybe that question fits the Minister best. The Minister regularly consults with large administrations. I wonder if the Minister can give a look at whether this is a topic of discussion in those discussions. Can he check or check when driving whether this is a conversation point with municipalities? Or is it something they let pass? Because for this we can bet the money that is just available to the target group that can't afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u30	It would be good if the Minister indicated whether this is a topic of discussion. I would like to make a comment. You can ask whether municipal money that goes to families living in poverty is meant to fill these kinds of holes. I hear Mr Heerema say: they are not holes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u31	You're not hearing that at all, because he's only allowed to speak through the microphone. Then it's true, otherwise it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u32	I just wanted to say that we see that the parental contribution is very high in some places. A very large part of that money often travels abroad. We would like to ask whether the poverty money is intended for the €999 that goes to the China trip. We believe that in the end municipalities will perhaps make that assessment different. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog also had a number of questions. He pointed out to us the opinion of the Council of State, who was wondering whether a law was really necessary. I hope that by now we have convinced him that things are going too often in practice. It has also been pointed out since 1981 that voluntary parental contributions should be voluntary, but we see in practice that they are not perceived as such. As a result, we believe that a separate law is needed. Mr Rog also spoke about the VO Council. He said he understood that Minister Slob had forced the VO Council to its knees and eventually concluded a covenant with it. Mr Rog was somewhat confused about the position of the VO Council. I would particularly like to tell him that we should ask the Minister. Of course, we do not know what happened between those two parties in a conversation. I can tell you that in the first version of our law, we have asked various organisations to respond via an internet consultation. We also submitted it to the VO Council. They did not initially choose to make their reaction to us public. In the end, Mr Kwint and I were blamed by a number of schools that we would not have consulted them. So we have done so, I would like to emphasise here. A few weeks ago, like all of you, we received a lot of letters from schools, especially in bilingual education. Mr Kwint has already addressed this in detail in his replies. They didn't actually enter us until September in larger numbers. Then Mr Rog also asked whether this law was necessary and whether the Minister could not ensure that children are not excluded through the inspection. There is, of course, the crux: at the moment it is allowed; at the moment schools are allowed to say so. We have checked a lot of school guides and it is sometimes very clear: if you do not pay the voluntary parental contribution, your child cannot come with us. We have even found a school that indicates that if the child has to do the assignment at school, there is also a contribution to that. We do not think that this is the intention at all, but in practice we see a number of these examples. The inspection cannot, of course, maintain anything that is allowed under the laws and regulations in force. We have just indicated that we do not find different agreements and agreements clear enough. We also read in e-mails that we receive and in newspaper articles that schools sometimes say: we throw the agreements we make over our shoulders as long as they are not laid down in the law. This is another reason why we believe that we should make very clear legal frameworks for this. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude, because I think we have answered all the questions. We hope that our reaction has convinced the Members of Parliament sufficiently. Finally, I would like to stress once again that our law for most schools is not going to change anything at all, because most schools are doing very well and ensure that the activities they organise remain affordable or otherwise that there are arrangements so that children can participate. But sometimes things go wrong, and just for those cases, our law is there. We believe that this is relevant because we believe that, precisely in a system in which education has been paid for by us all and belongs to all of us, we should strive for equal opportunities for every child. In our education, no child should suffer from his parents' wallet. That's why this bill. This bill stresses that children should not be used as a bargaining tool in the conversation, which can of course be conducted, between the school and parents about whether or not to pay such a voluntary parental contribution. It would be nice if today we had taken an extra step towards greater equality of opportunity for all children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u33	Thank you. This brings to an end the deadline of the applicants. The Minister will have the opportunity to advise the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, words of appreciation for the initiators and their supporters for the work they have done. It is also special for me to be standing here as a consultant on behalf of the cabinet. The day is also special, because it is the 71st anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but it is also my 33rd anniversary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u35	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u36	It's the very best thing I've ever done in my life. But I would like to talk about standing here today and answering the questions I have been asked about this bill and also expressing an opinion to the Chamber, in all modesty, of course. Mr. Chairman. I think it is clear to the Chamber where I stand, on behalf of the cabinet, in relation to the voluntary parental contribution. The law allows for a voluntary parental contribution. This requires the assent of the co-determination council, which has already been exchanged. The school should also communicate clearly about this voluntary nature and about the level of the contribution. For example, there is an obligation to mention it in the school guide, which does not always happen. Over the past two years, I have always been very clear about it, also from the point of view of equality of opportunity, that it is not good for children to be excluded from activities organised by the school. That can happen, and it happens sometimes. In recent years, we have discussed a number of cases in the Chamber where parents did not pay the voluntary contribution. I don't know if that's gonna happen a lot. Reference was made to the school monitor, in which parents indicate what their experience is. It is still quite difficult to establish that very precisely, but you can also say that every child that happens to this is one too many. We must try to avoid situations like this happening together. The Chamber knows that I have agreed to this with the sectoral councils. Questions have also been asked, among others by Mr Rog. The sectoral councils, both the PO Council and the VO Council, finally also drew up guidelines at my request. Those directives have also been endorsed by the general members' meetings of these sector organisations. There are a lot of boards attached, but not always all boards. There is another difference between the PO Council and the VO Council. The PO Council has just done it in width for all activities. The VO Council has made a restriction around the profile schools bilingual education, technasium, DAMU and Loot, because there are concerns that at the time you would include them, there would then be a discrepancy. Perhaps that would even mean the disappearance of the offer. I'll get back to you on that. This law goes on. We have also been asked: what is the difference between these directives and this law? The directives are, in principle, a form of self-regulation, even in terms of enforcement and monitoring. They've made arrangements. They say they're gonna stick to it, but if they don't, you can't do anything about it. And that is an added value of this bill. That is why I myself once indicated that this is an option for me that has always been in the picture. At a time when the law now makes it very clear that it should actually be the practice that a voluntary parental contribution is voluntary and that children cannot be excluded, the inspection provides an additional opportunity to simply monitor and, where appropriate, to act when children are excluded and not regarded as eligible. At this moment, the inspection can see to it that the mr has taken his position. The inspection may monitor communication in the school guide. For these are all provisions that must be adhered to. But the inspection cannot carry out its task in daily practice in schools, because there is simply no legal basis for this. That's what this law does now. I'm just making that as a factual observation. The big question is: what does this mean for everyday practice? It means that there will be clarity about the voluntary parental contribution. The word is actually already very clear, but there is now also a legal clarity that it is voluntary and that you should not exclude children. This can also contribute to reducing inequality of opportunity. Questions have been asked about this too. It will make the possibility of excluding children less likely than in the current situation. In the current situation, which has been going on for many years, the lack of commitment or at least the lack of clarity remains somewhat above this subject. By the way, things are going well in a lot of places, but from time to time there are the examples that we have also talked about in recent years. The question, which was also rightly raised in the debate by Mr Heerema and Mr Rog, is: what does that mean for that additional supply of bilingual education, DAMU, Loot and technasium are mentioned in particular, which we now know can be offered by the schools, in particular by this voluntary parental contribution? If we put it so tight in the law now, parents don't suddenly think: oh, wait a minute, it even says in the law that it's voluntary; then we just don't pay. Even though one might be able to afford it. Doesn't that mean that the carpet is actually being pulled out of schools under these nice extra offers? If we add up the amount of schools that make use of this, it's secondary education, it's about 200 to 300 institutions that make use of this extra offer. We know there are about 600 institutions. So about half the schools have something to do with this. I took that concern, which was expressed in the first term, seriously. It was also the same concern expressed by the VO Council, which is why they made the restriction on the directive they had made, unlike the PO Council. That was, I think, public information. That was a concern that we should not simply say: it may not be all that bad. What have I done, partly as a result of the first deadline in September? Was it even in September? At least a few weeks ago. Then I did two things. There has been another very extensive discussion with the inspection. What is their experience when they come to all these schools in the country, especially when it comes to this subject? We also asked the VO-Council to give us a few names of schools that have to do with this and where people are just very worried about what might happen. They've had conversations with them, too. The outcome of these talks is actually twofold. First of all, we note that the schools support the spirit of this bill, which should not exclude children. That is also the basic attitude of everyone who is active in education. The second is that the experience of today is that the majority of parents simply pay the parental contribution, even in those situations.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I always have to look at that term on my cheat sheet, because it's a term you can just crash halfway through. Parents generally pay that contribution. If we want to include it in percentages, it is simply paid by about 80% to 95%. Why are parents doing this? Actually, for a very simple reason: they just find this valuable. This is a valuable additional offer and it is important for the children that this offer is offered in practice. It is therefore of no interest, nor is it of any benefit, to reduce or even to disappear altogether, even if what should already be the rule is laid down in law. There is also a piece of mutual solidarity behind it. As Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld pointed out, arrangements have already been made in principle to ensure that the money comes in another way if it cannot be paid. It happens in different ways. Sometimes the other parents pay a little more. It also happens that a municipality contributes. There was a question about that. Indeed, there are sometimes municipalities that say that they think this is important in their municipality, in their region, and therefore have some money to pay for it. It also happens that the Stichting Leergeld (Stichting Leergeld) is already contributing money. Sometimes there is another game in the school that can be used to ensure that that offer is made. In fact, that is already the situation. The assumption that all of this will suddenly be very different when it comes to the law... Of course, we never know for sure, but that is not an assumption for which there is a great deal of ground when we see what is already happening in daily practice in schools and how we are already trying to get out of it in a good way. Finally, I would like to touch on the amendments. Before I come to my advice, I'd like to answer a few separate questions first. Then I will deal with the amendments. They are actually trying to find a way into the uncertainty that may arise and what is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u37	But I shall first give the floor to Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u38	It is a complicated task that we face, because everyone in the Chamber and in the Chamber finds the same thing, namely that we support the spirit of the law, as the Minister calls it. We don't want children to be excluded. Mrs Westerveld says that not so much is actually changing. The Minister says that almost everything is going well. And yet here we are talking about legal intervention. My question to the Minister is as follows. He's made covenants. The sector itself has started work on the additional package, the extracurricular part of the profile schools. How many incidents have occurred after the Minister finally signed a covenant with the two sectoral councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u39	That is a question that Mr Rog asked in his first term. No incidents have been reported to us. But that's the complicated thing about this subject, because if you look at what comes out of the School Cost Monitor, for example, you can see that sometimes parents do make notifications in that way. You know that the School Cost Monitor is not held frequently, not every month. This isn't registered anywhere nationwide. On that basis you could assume that it might not be so bad, because it is just being arranged. But again, you can't rule out that these kinds of situations are going to happen again. Over the past two years, I've been approached an x-number of times, mostly from the Chamber, with examples. Also a program like Kassa came up with examples. So it happens from time to time. My aim is that every child that gets locked out is one too many. We should avoid that. The question is, how do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u40	Exactly, we totally agree on that: every child is one too many. The question that arises is the following. If we see that this is a problem, that agreements have been concluded and that the sector itself has taken initiatives, do we now, as a State, have to close everything down or do we also choose, by analogy with the Minister's idea of greater sovereignty in our own circle and subsidiarity? Do we first look at what is going on now that the sector has picked it up and how it is going to work, instead of introducing a much more far-reaching law, including that extracurricular part, where we are going to monitor what the consequences are? I think that is quite a risk, because it is considered rather laconically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u41	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u42	I do not have the impression that the proposers are laconical and I am not standing here with a laconic attitude either. I will come back to that later on, because I will also support the way in which I look at this bill and the amendments that have been tabled from the Chamber. Then I will also address the question you are asking here: how should we ultimately see that in total, and what is or is not fruitful in relation to this subject and the space you would like to give to the schools when it comes to the choices they can make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u43	I have another question in connection with the information given by the Minister on the number of schools and how parents look at this voluntary parental contribution. It goes a little further than the initiative proposal, but in the first period it has been discussed quite extensively. I now hear that almost half of the administrative boards in secondary education have such a profile or use the voluntary parental contribution for certain activities. The minister says that 80% to 95% of parents like to pay because they think it's important. However, I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on the commitment of voluntary parental contributions to such concepts. Is it desirable that we should have such an important part of secondary education paid by parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u44	That brings me to a number of questions that I wanted to answer, because Mr Renkema was also the one who revived the debate from the Chamber in the first period by saying: should we not completely abolish this voluntary parental contribution? The cabinet has no reason to do so, nor does it have any urge to do so. We are in principle in favour of asking for voluntary parental contributions, but it must be very clear that they are voluntary parental contributions. They can really have added value in the schools. Of course, that's what we're seeing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u45	Mr Van Meenen. Oh, Mr Renkema, finally. You are speaking on behalf of GroenLinks; I had not said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u46	About this point. I recognise this, especially when it comes to a voluntary parental contribution of some euros: €40, €50 or €60 per year. But it is also about examples where a very important part of education is also financed through the voluntary parental contribution. Does the Minister agree with me that this was not actually the intention of the voluntary parental contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u47	The basic education is free of charge. If additional money is requested from parents, this can only be done if the parents agree to it. That also has to do with that principle. That is also the reason why the participation council has been given the right of assent. If the co-determination council, wherever the parents are represented, says "we don't want this," then it just doesn't happen. It is very important to have that in the schools too, because we sometimes notice that it flies through a little bit, so to speak. Of course, that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u48	It's a good thing the Minister had his own investigation done. This shows that the sector itself is engaged, that schools offer alternatives and that they guarantee accessibility. I have noticed that there are also schools that, in the search for not to allow a child, offer alternatives that are really much less. For example, a school that says: "We go to Cambridge together in the context of bilingual education. That's $500. For the children who can't afford it, we also have a wonderful program: with them we go to Apeldoorn, which costs €25." Does the Minister agree with me that, when it comes to accessibility and "not excluding a child," this also means not excluding the activities the other children pay for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u49	I agree with Mr Van Meenen. If you as a school offer something that also happens under the responsibility of the school, basically every child should be able to participate in it. But then we end up in the discussion that I have just spoken to Mr Rog about and for which Mr Heerema has also drawn attention: isn't that going to mean that there's going to be less offered when you put this in the law? I'll come back to that separately later. But I agree with you that children should be able to participate. Mrs Van den Hul said: shouldn't we maximize it? The cabinet has no urge to settle that. We are also a little afraid that what you Maximize will become the norm. I think it is much more important that such a participation council at the front should simply take its job seriously. Especially when it comes to absurd amounts, I am afraid to say that when it comes to thousands of euros, it would be very good if we were simply to be very clear about this and say: we should not do so in this way. But if you set a standard, in the vein of "that much may be," you know how it often goes: then it becomes a kind of center where everything goes. In any case, we have no urge to change anything about that in the law at the moment. Nor did the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u50	Thank you. Indeed, we read this earlier in the Minister's response to his predecessor's research on the implementation of my predecessor Joyce Vermue's motion, together with Mr Jasper van Dijk. Still, we can see that there are those excesses. Here is a school where they ask for €1,450 per year. That school is in Wassenaar. Those excesses are here. We also know that there are schools that do select at the gate, even though they do not say so on their website. Mrs Westerveld has already mentioned this: it does have a segregating effect. The Minister doesn't see anything about maxim. Okay, that's what he has his motivation for, but my question to him is: what is he going to do to make sure that these kinds of excesses are no longer possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u51	I am here as an advisor to the Chamber in the context of an initiative proposal that does not regulate these matters. The proposers themselves have just been ready to do so: that is not the scope of this bill. I would also point out that, over the last two years, my commitment has not been directed towards the discussion on maxima and has not been asking for a parent's contribution at all. Schools are allowed to do that, and there are schools wherever that happens. My main aim is always to try to do everything in my power to ensure that children are not excluded. That's what the stakes are now focused on. With those eyes, I'm also judging this bill. Of course, it is always interesting to have these other discussions, but I do not think that is the subject of this law. Nor do we intend to take initiatives of our own now. What I find more interesting is what you yourself had to say in the first term and what I now have to answer: is this bill going to help to promote equality of opportunity and prevent segregation? I think it is clear that if children are no longer excluded if they do in the old situation, which, of course, contributes to promoting equality of opportunity and combating segregation, no matter how small it may be when it comes to small numbers. But that doesn't matter now. Every child may be there and we would like to offer the opportunity to take advantage of the offer in a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u52	I will be brief, because the Minister is going to answer other questions and we are indeed standing before the legislative proposal. I think that the Minister is getting over my questions very easily now, which is actually waving away and saying: that is not part of this law, so we are now talking about the consequences of not being able to pay the parental contribution. It has, of course, to do with one of the intended effects of this law, namely to combat segregation. I do think it is relevant to hear from the Minister what is being used, in addition to this law, in additional policies to counter these excesses if the Minister does not want to opt for maximation. I am a little disappointed that the Minister is doing this now with: that is not what this law is about. The Minister is, of course, talking about it; hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u53	Of course, this is an important subject. In the past year, we have also discussed in detail, in connection with an initiative paper from the Labour Party, how we can further promote equality of opportunity in this country. You know the Cabinet is working hard on that. Look at the Equal Opportunities Alliance, where more and more municipalities join. These are the places and moments when this kind of subject is not only addressed nationally, but also locally, and where policies can be made to ensure that children have access to everything. This is part of, for example, the fact that some municipalities give schools a financial contribution to further promote the space for those children, but that can also happen towards the music school, gymnastics association or football association, you name it. Those are things that we really stimulate and where we even put money into. In secondary education, we even give schools additional money to accompany children. Sometimes that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u54	Minister, you have already indicated in your response that you wish to confine yourself to advising on the bill. Can I ask you to come to your real advice? You have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u55	Yeah, I'm almost there. I have two short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u56	I'll take a look at the time, and I'd like you to start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u57	Sure, I can do that. Of course, I have to answer questions that are being asked. Mr Van Meenen had indeed asked whether this money could also be used for school staff. The proposers said: we're not quite sure. Basically, there is. Sometimes a voluntary parental contribution is requested to keep the classes smaller and it is also put into staff. So one has the space to do so. It is not something that one usually thinks of first, also because it has to be structural money. But if one can ensure that it keeps coming back, then in principle one has the room to use that money for that purpose. I have already made clear the role of the inspection. It already has a role to play, but it will be expanded when it comes to the law. Mr. Chairman. This ultimately brings me to the government's assessment of this bill. The cabinet is positive about this bill, but it also sees the concern expressed by the Chamber and also by the VO-Council about the possibility of divergence. That brings me to the two amendments that have been tabled. An amended amendment has been tabled. I had the impression that Mr Kwint was still responding to the first amendment, but there has been a change. I see the amendments as an attempt to see if we can get out of here in a good way. Mr Van Meenen's amendment is that in part No. Eight? No. Nine? I shall go first to Mr Heerema's and Mr Rog's amendments to item No. 10. The difficulty of this amendment is that it excludes part of what is offered from the standard that is actually stated in the law that it is voluntary. Because it is best to have a large number of institutions, it can have a reasonable impact. The legislative proposal is very clear: it is only about activities that are offered outside the core objectives. In practice, this creates a very complicated situation. Take bilingual education. This is simply offered to all children, because the English course is also covered by the core objectives. So all children are in a class, even if history is given in English or geography and you name it. Those are just subjects they have to take and there are the children together. But then I'm gonna get my note back to it... the extra-curricular activities... there's an English excursion to Cambridge... and then these kids have to stay home. If they can take a Cambridge exam, which is additional, these children are not allowed to take part in it. I do not know if this is what the authors of this amendment are aiming for, but, of course, it gives rise to a rather painful situation in a class in which just children are all sitting. Part of the programme is, because it falls within the core objectives, for everyone and then suddenly there is a separation because it is additional matters that they should not participate in because they have not paid. I find that complicated. The same applies, for example, to the technasium. The technasium is basically something that is offered in addition, but one can use the free space in teaching time. If that just happens in regular teaching time, it's a little strange when children are excluded from it. In practice, therefore, there are a number of problems if this amendment were to be incorporated into this law in this way. I understand, however, that an attempt has been made to see whether this offer can be prevented from disappearing. Mr Van Meenen's amendment to item No. 9 makes an attempt, actually approached from the other side. We are now seeing a situation in bilingual education. The national dome, with which all these profile schools are affiliated, is going to make arrangements, so that there are not all kinds of differences between schools. Indeed, it is still a mess, in the sense that there are a lot of differences. Then you can say: just make sure that there is a scheme that ensures that it is just financed, even when some children may not get money. It goes quite far to lay down such a thing in the law. On the other hand, if you set the standard in the law, it is clear, for the balance sheet, that you simply have to have that regulation. Everyone must do so and no child should be excluded. In addition, provision should be made to ensure that the supply is maintained in situations where this might come under pressure. The advantage of this amendment is that it is based on the norm in the law that every child must have access to the activities offered by the school, without prejudice to that. In that respect, therefore, the second amendment is more my preference, in order to put it this way as an advisor, because it simply maintains the standard that everyone should be able to participate. However, it is, of course, up to the Chamber to decide. This is the advice I give on behalf of the cabinet. I wish you a great deal of wisdom, including in the considerations that you must make further in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u58	If I make it concrete, then you would advise against the amendment in part No. 10 and give you the amendment to item No. 9 Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u59	I don't know if I should advise against anything in this role. But if I stood here as a minister with my own bill, I would indeed do so this way. Although I do appreciate the search for whether we can get out of here. I think we all support that. I have also expressed this concern, and indeed we must take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u60	I have another question about both amendments to the Minister in his role as an advisor. There's talk of profile schools. This concerns tto, Loot, technasia and all kinds of other schools. The D66 amendment also states that 'a member of a school association'. Those seem to me to be terms that you can't really delimit. For example, there are also courses of study. There's an association for categorial gymnasia. How broad should I see the concept of "profile schools" according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u61	This is fairly well arranged in the Netherlands. There is an overarching link, with which bilingual education is connected. That's about 130 institutions. Also Loot, DAMU, but also the technasium have gathered under that dome. This also applies to the cultural profile schools, which are still there and there are about 25 to 30 in our country. So they have already organized themselves nationwide, in order to be able to speak with one voice towards the government. We can see that bilingual education has continued to make this movement itself. I really appreciate that, and that is also a result of the discussion that has taken place over the past period. That movement actually fits in perfectly with this. So in that respect it can indeed provide more clarity and clarity about what you do at those times that income is falling and you do want to keep the offer going. And of course we will have to follow it further. But there is also an evaluation clause in this law, which will lead to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u62	Thank you. I look at the Chamber to see if Members need a second term. I see Mrs van den Hul getting up, so the answer to that question is yes. I shall give her the floor as the first speaker in the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, I'd like to take the floor, if only to congratulate the minister from this place on his wedding day. It is remarkable to be allowed to do so by this microphone. Of course, I would also like to take the floor to congratulate the authors once again on the initiative. I know from experience how much work the filing of such an initiative law is. It is also very nice to see you here with your support. I told you in the first installment, you're good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm good-I'm Mr. Chairman. We very much agree with the authors on the content. That exclusion of pupils is one of the most painful excesses......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And this week we read that two thirds of all teachers indicate having one or more students in class who grow up in poverty. That is why, unfortunately, this is a bill that is urgently needed. Because no child deserves to be excluded on the basis of his parents' wallet. At the same time, we see that the parental contribution has increased by more than 20% over the last five years. We are seeing an increase in expenditure on shadow education. We see private educational providers advertising with: here you will not suffer from the shortage of teachers. We're watching the segregation grow. This remains a matter of concern to us and, unfortunately, we often come to talk about it in this composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u64	I give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the authors for the answer and thanks to the Minister for the advice. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the purpose of this law is uncontested. I believe that all the groups in this Chamber have voted against exclusion. It rained examples that MPs have seen about how wrong things can go. In our view, that is a bit of a reaction to people who say: yes, but isn't it just occasional? It has been occasional for several decades now. We voted today on a ban on the sale of the Japanese knot. That made us all laugh a little bit. Municipalists don't laugh at the Japanese knot. Because if that plant is somewhere, you can cut it away as often as you want, but it always comes up somewhere you don't expect it to. I had to think about this in this context, because it also seems to be the case occasionally with this problem of exclusion of children. He keeps coming back here and there. This Chamber actually has two questions for us. The first is: does this require a law? And the second question: if there is a law, should there be an exception? As far as we are concerned, the need for that law is clear and clear. It's been going down for years, and it keeps coming back. It's a minority, but it's not just about incidents. We're hearing too many stories about this. Dan: Is there a need for an exception? I am looking specifically at the two amendments that have been tabled. I understand the concerns of the proposers. We do not think there will be any delay with this law, but I also said in the first term that I cannot guarantee it. So I understand the tendency to say: shouldn't we do something about this? If I look at the proposal by Mr Heerema and Mr Rog, I would like to ask the following question. I'm gonna be a little ridiculous right now. That is not to ridicule the concerns, but to test the scope of the amendment; let me put it this way. If tomorrow I were to set up the Fuzzelaar College, which specialises in giving Marxist dialectics to children, could I exclude children for my study trip to Cuba with this amendment, because I say: we have a special institution and the study trip has a connection with that? I'm really not trying to be silly, but I'm trying to see if this will prevent abuse. We're working on legislation. That legislation is necessary because of the evils that ruin it for the rest; that is the way it is. Are you excluding people from taking this amendment to find a shortcut? I do not think that is the case with Mr Van Meenen's amendment, which I think is a bit like someone who has tried to bring two worlds together. That's where you'll see the risk of exclusion less. It's a bit of a principled line, but I'm still stuck with the following. If it's so important to you, don't you think you should take care of the funding? That is what the authors have said with so many words. But it is also a very easy argument to make, especially for an opposition party. It also doesn't quite do justice to concerns that are out there in the field. But I see an interruption. I was just about to say some words of appreciation to Mr Van Meenen, but he can live without it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u66	I'd do that first, because then you'd be in favour of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u67	No, the moment is over, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u68	Well, then I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u69	But I only come here to congratulate Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u70	It's gonna be fun here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u71	It's gonna be some kind of courtesy contest. Um... Now I've lost my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u72	Yeah, we do sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u73	That's cunning, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u74	Well, I honestly don't remember. I've lost it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u75	Mr. Chairman. I was concluding by saying that, as a group, we must consider whether we can support this path. Finally, let me express my appreciation for the fact that Mr Van Meenen says openly: I support the legislative proposal anyway, whether it is adopted or not. In any case, that is a reason for my group to take a very serious look at it, because that is the best way to deal with each other here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u76	Mr Van Meenen has found his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u77	Exactly. That's what it's meant to be. It is intended to make a very good law just a fraction better, so I hope for your support. What I wanted to say is that I agree with Mr Futselaar that we should not be having this discussion, because the funding should be sufficient. We agree on that. Let's see if we can do that on another occasion, but the kids can't wait for that now, so now the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u78	Mr Van Meenen has been quoted many times this evening. I'd like to do it again. He has said it many times: I would like to see the SP once in the government, indeed, so that she knows what it is like to deal with educational expenditure. I think we share that hope. Maybe together sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u79	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Renkema van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Just a few more points. First of all, thank you for the reply of the authors and the Minister's opinions. As I made very clear in my first term, the debate for GroenLinks was mainly about social exclusion and poverty. If 300,000 children grow up in poverty, there is a risk of social exclusion. If things are complicated at home, it should be possible for school to go well. If, due to circumstances in a family, there is no money for certain activities, then the school must realise those opportunities. I referred in the first term to the pedagogy of Lea Dasberg's hopes. The amounts paid by parents to the voluntary parental contribution have increased steadily in recent years. That's what you see mostly in secondary school. We consider equality of opportunity to be so important that we say: it is really strange that a child in the 8th grade should already take into account what kind of parental contribution his parents are going to pay in the vo. So it affects freedom of choice. I have the following questions on the two amendments. I think it's a little artificial to separate a curriculum into educational activities and extracurricular activities. A curriculum is a set of activities that aim to enable children to develop from a certain concept. We therefore believe that this removes something from the essence of this law. I find Mr Van Meenen's amendment more sympathetic in this respect. But it is also a little complicated to agree on this by means of codes and organisations, including the possible bureaucracy that this creates, especially since he writes that the Minister may have to take care of it again. I do not think that this is desirable on the basis of a desire for deregulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u81	I understand what you are saying, but the amendment is inspired by what is already happening in practice. It's not something we're about to impose. No, we are encouraging this to happen, and my view is that we are doing the right thing to do to strengthen that only force. I know that it is not so easy in such a club, in such an umbrella association, to get things right with each other. I hope that there is no need for further ministerial guidance, but that option is there and we can always draw that card if we need to. I hope that's how you want to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u82	Yeah, that's how I see it. Especially since it can also be a point of reference for the inspection to have the conversation with different schools. Finally. In the first period, it has been quite extensive about how GroenLinks is actually involved when it comes to the voluntary parental contribution. That question was also put to Mr Kwint. Once again, this proposal is not about that. But let us be very clear: I want to remove the image as if we were in favour of some kind of distortion. As a party, we are extremely pleased with all these concepts. We are happy for the students who can learn in a different way. We are also happy for the teachers who can work there. Because for them too, it is often an inspiring environment. But we believe that this should always be financed from public money and not from voluntary parental contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u83	Thank you. I am looking at Mr Van Meenen to see if he needs a second term. He's jumping up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u84	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate the Minister on his 33rd anniversary, if I have heard correctly. We've lasted about the same time. That's pretty handsome... of our women, especially mine. I also congratulate the initiators once again. It was beautiful. I also think it is a very nice, good and handsome term that they have put here in order to stay in the mood of this evening on the mat. In the meantime, I hope my phone rings and it's going to be 1-1. Because it's still 0-1. But aside from that... Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight my amendment one more time. I hope that the gentlemen on the right too will be sensitive to this. Because I think we all want the same thing. But I have heard some problems in the Minister's response, including the feasibility of the amendment. I think that it is also less necessary for us to make an exception there, as we all want to see guarantees on it. We do not want it to be said, on the one hand, 'we have a law here to guarantee access for children' and, at the same time, in the same movement with this amendment, to make an exception for a very large group of schools. I just don't get along very well. That's what I don't want right now. I don't want that exception. That is what the Minister said. I want access for all children in all schools guaranteed. Wherever you might fear that there is a discrepancy in the offer, I would also like to, but I would like to give schools room in it by asking them and, if you like, forcing them to agree a code for that, so that they too, in accordance with the code that the schools for bilingual education have now created, hold each other in it, with the support of the law and the support of the inspection. That's it, Mr. Chairman. My group will vote in favour of the law. I already told you. That is separate from the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u85	Anyway, thank you for that. I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen: has he tabled this amendment because he is afraid of a possible disruption of these schools, or has it been tabled to meet the fears of the schools? It's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u86	A question of conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u87	That fear exists in the schools, I know. I was allowed to speak last week or two weeks at a meeting of all the school leaders in this company. That was not just a very pleasant meeting, I can tell you, because there too I have said how I feel about this law. But I also listened. And more importantly, I have the impression that I have been listened to. The result is that I don't want to draw it to myself, because there are all kinds of forces, and the most important one is the law, which is that people are very well aware that something must happen and that we can't get through it as it is now. But at least I don't reason out of fear. I reason from the idea that I am happy with the extra offer that is there. I cherish that, and I give it to every child in those schools, so I want to guarantee that accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u88	Thank you. Then I look at Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u89	Mr. Chairman. I also said it in the first term: I think that we, as a Chamber, are quite close together. I also said that I think you're a lousy director if you allow one of the kids at your school not to go on a school trip to the Efteling because the parents can't afford something, while the rest can come. You just have to take care of that as director. I think that at that level of school we are all on the line of the law. For that part, I would certainly advise my group to vote in favour of the law. But I do have concerns about the possible deterioration of education. Those concerns haven't been taken away from me. That is why, together with Mr Rog, I have sincerely tried to come up with an amendment to first of all exempt the profile organisations, the Profile Board as it has been established, from this law. That turned out to be difficult, for the simple reason that the Profile Board has no legal basis in the law. We've been messing with that. We first tried to refer to a special facility. Mr Kwint also mentioned this. That too proved to be insufficient. That is why you have just received a further amended amendment which states what we are trying to achieve. Mr. Chairman. We hope that the amendment will succeed. I do not support Mr Van Meenen's amendment, which includes the code in the law, because the obligation of a code in the law goes too far for me. I would like to arrange this with more confidence towards education by means of a motion. I'll do that with Mr. Rog. Mr Rog is the author of the motion, so he will come to speak about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u90	Mr. Lordema, let me ask you a question, even from the Registry. You are talking about an 'already amended amendment'. Do you mean an "modified amendment"? Otherwise I would not have the last amendment myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u91	That's right. It is an amended amendment. The intermediate form is probably not filed. We changed that before it was submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u92	I have here the amendment to item No. 10, replacing that printed under heading No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u93	That's right, Mr. Chairman. That's the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u94	Go ahead, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u95	The Fuzzler College.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u96	Let me say first of all that I do not doubt the sincerity of the efforts made by the proposers, that is what I want to say, but to what extent it opens doors to schools that we would not want to see a door open. Let me put it this way. To what extent can you possibly abuse the amendment? I'm kind of looking for that. So perhaps Mr. Heerema can indeed go into the Fumbler College.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u97	The Fuzzler College gives me some fear, just because of the name, but it intrigues me as well. Fortunately, we have recently adopted the Law more room for new schools. I don't think there would be room under that law for the college you're aiming for. It's about the schools that exist now. They should, according to the co-determination council and so on, all come to different rates. But I believe that it is about the profiles as we appointed them in the first term and as we also mentioned them in the first amendment and also included them in the explanatory memorandum. That seems to me to be the brightest thing. I see that there may be fear of abuse, but on the other hand I see in particular that education itself is currently taking up what the law is aiming for. Mr Van Meenen also spoke about this. He was at a meeting of bilingual teaching in which he said: we ourselves come up with a code of what is now happening in the Chamber. I believe that education will take this step further, also under pressure from, for example, the amendment that Mr Rog and I will be tabling later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u98	Finally, briefly. Other Members are waiting for the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u99	I believe that we should judge laws on the basis of whether there are gaps in them. This law is written in principle, and we should just say that for the schools that are not doing well and the directors that Mr Heerema said: you must be crazy to do it. I'm trying to move into their shoes. The explanatory statement says 'but we mean those profile schools', and that is also your intention, but that is not in the law. In the end, I have to judge the law. For that, I have to look at an amendment. So I'm not quite reassured yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u100	Mr Heerema says: under pressure from this law, the profile organisation tto has come up with a code. But the amendment tabled by Mr Heerema and Mr Rog immediately removes that pressure. That's exactly what it says, isn't it? It is almost a destructive amendment, because you say exactly the opposite of what is in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u101	There's been a movement that I believe in. I believe that the tto does not just go back and that the other profile organisations in this movement will then go along with it, also because of the motion that we are about to table and which will be adopted as far as we are concerned. That's how we keep that movement going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u103	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u104	Go ahead. Very briefly. But not a repeat of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u105	It's a little special, isn't it? We have a law here that says we're going to guarantee children's access to all schools. Then there will be an amendment that says that a lot of schools will be exempted from it. Then there is a motion which will undoubtedly ask the Minister to have a discussion with these schools to ensure that access is guaranteed. Then we should start at the beginning by saying that we are applying this law to all schools and by ensuring that the profile schools can earn an exemption for themselves if they come up with a code. That makes more sense, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u106	In Mr Van Meenen's head that is probably a logical reasoning, but I really fly it on another route. They don't have to earn it for me. I'm gonna give them that freedom and assume they're gonna start working on a code. We want them to come up with such a code, but as far as I'm concerned, that doesn't have to be incorporated into the law. For me, there is just a very clear difference between what a school offers and what is extracurricular, which is then a kind of extra on top of education. As far as our party is concerned, you can just ask for a contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u107	Still at the same point. I have just said that I do not think there is any difference. You say that's the curriculum and that's out there. But I think that's one concept. The Minister said this evening that half of the vo-bodies have one way or another such a profile school. If I allow the amendment to work properly, it says that this initiative does not apply to those half of the schools. That half will be excluded. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u108	The scope could be large. I saw that you were also critical of Mr Van Meenen's amendment. Our amendment does indeed seem to go a little further, so you are also critical of ours. We do not share your view that there is no distinction at educational level between what is extracurricular and curricular. I can see that there is a basis that every school has to meet. You don't exclude children from a Christmas dinner, Easter breakfast, graduation gala or a school trip. But you have to be able to do something extra on top of that education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u109	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u110	Thank you, Mr President. The school is a community where you grow up together in relation to one another towards maturity. My party, too, has been particularly angry about the exclusion of children, for example at the Christmas breakfast, or the purchase of teachers to make an extremely expensive trip to Norway. We want to get rid of that. At the same time, we can see that a great many steps have now been taken. The Minister has signed a covenant with the PO Council and the VO Council. The profile organisations are in the process of developing their own covenant regarding their specific education. The Leergeld Foundation indicates that the exclusion of pupils is fortunately less and less common. This law does a good thing by guaranteeing that failure to pay the voluntary parental contribution cannot lead to exclusion in all those matters that we have just talked about. But at the same time, as Mr Futselaar pointed out, there remains a concern. That's for us about the profile schools. We note that the profile schools are currently allowed to request a compulsory contribution from parents. The law demands something for the regular part. What really needs to be done now is that the contribution is voluntary and we are going to have a legal guarantee. As far as the profile organisations are concerned, my party, together with the VVD, would like to make the agreement that we should go a step further there too, namely by guaranteeing these agreements in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and with sovereignty in our own circle, but also in accordance with the warnings of the Council of State. To that end, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the additional supply at profile schools, such as bilingual education (tto), technasia, top sports talent schools (Loot) and DAMU, requires an additional parental contribution, which can still be made compulsory at present;]] [[Whereas the TTO schools have now agreed that all their schools should have a financial support scheme for parents who are unable to pay this contribution, with schools which do not meet this requirement losing their quality certificate;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a code of conduct or arrangement for all profile schools to ensure that their schools are accessible to pupils with parents who are unable to meet the contribution to this profile education and to inform the Chamber about the proceeds for the summer of 2020;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35063-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u111	With this motion, in addition to the amendment I tabled together with Mr Heerema, we are indeed trying to ensure that we can support what the initiators want in terms of regular activities. At the same time, however, we are making additional arrangements for these special profiling schools laid down in the agreements in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u112	I'm still trying to follow it all a little bit. There is an amendment that exempts the schools. Then there will be a motion that says: we want to ensure that accessibility for all students. Then I have the next question to Mr Rog. If the motion were to be adopted and the Minister started working on it, would that not guarantee that there would be a legal basis for that? That is my amendment. So can Mr Rog explain the difference between those two cases? Should we not deal with this today instead of a motion which we shall have to wait and see how it relates to this? Suppose the amendment is adopted and the motion is not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u113	Your question is clear, Mr. Van Meenen. I am going to give Mr Rog the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u114	This is, of course, a different approach. That is why I refer to the Leergeld Foundation and the Council of State. Those organisations have just said: are we not going a step too far in proportionality? Isn't there a step in advance before you can reach such a far-reaching measure? Mr Van Meenen talks about all kinds of measures and directions which he immediately gives to the Minister. Of course, that is what he has been awarded; that is what is allowed. We're one step ahead. We want to give room for these agreements, additional to our amendment, but also to the agreements which the Minister has already concluded. They haven't been closed until recently. We have just found that there is no knowledge of complaints after that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u115	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u116	Well, I know him, but okay. Okay, let's get this over with. I am not asking the Minister anything in my amendment. I would like to ask the schools the same thing that Mr Rog asks: that they conclude a covenant and comply with it under penalty of being excluded from carrying out that predicate. That is exactly what Mr Rog is trying to do, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u117	But then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u118	No, let's say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u119	But then Mr Van Meenen could withdraw his amendment and support Mr Heerema's and myself's amendment and ask for agreements from the sector. So it's two-and-a-half. Either he thinks it's all the same and then I don't understand what's so complicated about it, or there's a substantial difference between it. And I think it's the last of it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u120	I'm just talking about this motion. If only this motion would be tabled, I would consider it. But there is also an amendment, and that amendment starts with the total exemption from schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u121	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u122	Yeah, that's just literally what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u123	The amendment regulates that these profile schools continue to be covered by the current situation. At the same time, this law comes through for the regular part. And this motion, even if the law were to be voted down, regulates something that is not now settled, namely that there will be agreements, in which ultimately the effect... That was indeed a legitimate question from Mr Futselaar, whether students could eventually be excluded from his Cuba voyages I feared. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u124	I'm afraid you won't agree. Let me look at the two gentlemen who still have a question about this motion. Mr. Renkema first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u125	I think that the motion in addition to the amendment is rather wonderful. If I understand correctly, the amendment says that we are not going to exclude children from the Christmas celebration, which seems to me to be something that Mr Rog does not want, but that we are not going to apply the initiative law to profile schools when it comes to excursions and so on. We're gonna ask those schools to put that back in a covenant. But we started here tonight with a historical sketch that went back to 1981, which showed that a lot of such agreements and self-direction have not led to children not being excluded. Why are you making that artificial distinction between the Christmas celebration and the trip to Cambridge? I really don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u126	Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u127	So this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u128	Let's talk about the basics of the CDA, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u129	You're talking through each other now. I give the floor to Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u130	Exactly. The answer lies in the fact that we have made a very important point of fear of fragmentation. Mr Futselaar has rightly quoted this. The initiators have said that they cannot rule out the possibility of this discrepancy taking place. They're gonna monitor it and evaluate it. We want to get ahead of that. We say: talk to the sector and come up with agreements that are appropriate. This means that accessibility is guaranteed for people who cannot afford it but who do want it in this form of education. At the moment, it may become mandatory, and it may become mandatory, but at the same time there is an agreement that there must be an appropriate regime at this level. This may be different for a dance education than for a technasium or for bilingual education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u131	Finally, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u132	At this point, I think we are speaking a little bit side by side, and we are certainly not going to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u134	This evening's debate and in the first term were not about delay. It was about inequality of opportunity and poverty. I am surprised that the CDA is now choosing this wonderful distinction between Christmas, where everyone is welcome, and a journey, where it is up to the schools to conclude a covenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u135	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u136	I think that Mr Renkema will have to read the amendment, on the one hand, quietly, leading to the adoption of the law and, on the other hand, reading the motion. He'll see that everyone's going on a trip. The difference is that that aspect does not come into the law but into a covenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u137	Mr. Futzelaar, a new point or the same story again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u138	Yes, a new point, certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u139	Go ahead, Mr. Fuzzler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u140	I'm trying very hard to be binding tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u141	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u142	That's why I'd like to quote the minister. He said in answer to the question what this adds: this gives me the legal basis that I now miss to maintain in practical situations. This amendment removes that legal basis for a large part of the schools. Yeah, there's gonna be a covenant, but a covenant's gonna be a deal eventually. I am also an agricultural spokesman, and you do not want to know what a huge pile of broken agricultural agreements have been in recent years. Does Mr Rog not see a very practical problem there? We still leave a huge door open without that possibility of enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u143	No, I can see that the Minister has not only said this, but has also acknowledged the fear that many parties here are afraid that there will be a discrepancy. That couldn't be ruled out either. That is exactly what we have been trying to provide an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u144	I note that we can both listen selectively to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u145	I was just trying to balance that again, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u146	In this way, we have ended the second term of office in harmony again. I'm looking at the initiators. Not many questions have been asked to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u147	That is correct, Mr President, but we do not want to be deprived of the opportunity to congratulate the Minister on his 33-year marriage. Congratulations. Let us not allow this debate to last too long. Thank you to all those who have endorsed the intentions and have spoken out against exclusion. Mr Futselaar asked two questions. Is the law necessary? It's obvious to us. Because we filed it ourselves. Is that exception necessary? If we needed that primarily, we would have put it in the law. But it will not surprise anyone that, if you decide to do so, the way Mr Van Meenen flies it is by far preferable to the way Mr Rog and Mr Heerema do it. We hear it said here that, for example, the Law makes more room for new schools more stringent requirements for the establishment of schools, but that thing is not called for nothing Law more room for new schools. As I have read that law, the law offers all the room for Mr Futselaar's wanted Futselaar College, if he manages to collect enough signatures from parents. But more seriously, when it comes to the amendments, our objection is that the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Heerema is inappropriate. If half the secondary schools are soon excluded from the scope of this law, you undermine the purpose of this law. You can't just fix that with a motion. The VVD and the CDA see movements in the right direction. Let me endorse that. I can see that too, but we have started with the observation that we have been trying for 38 years, through agreements and mutual agreements, to sustain this progress, but that we are not achieving enough, as is shown by the amount of exclusion mentioned, for example, in the School Cost Monitor. Then I understand better Mr Van Meenen's point of view, namely that everyone should go along with it, with sanctions linked to it, and that it should be recorded that it is actually happening. We can go further in this than in the plan to first exclude half the number of schools and then ask them to come to a covenant. I'll see if I've answered everything, but I'm sure Mrs Westerveld will. Finally, I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr Heerema. You're a lousy warden if you rule out kids. The same applies to the director of a concept school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u148	Thank you. I'm looking at Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u149	Mr. Chairman. I do not have much more to add to the comments. If we were to go along with the amendment tabled by Mr Heerema and Mr Rog, we would very quickly see that a very large proportion of secondary schools decide to fall under the so-called profile schools. Then I can see that Mr Futselaar and the Futselaar College, if he succeeds in collecting all these signatures, can eventually become a profile school quite easily. I do not understand why the authors of the amendment think that the Futselaar College cannot be a profile school and a college that offers dance, music or top sports education, for example, should be covered by the amendment and should be covered by that exception. In any case, we do not see the legal basis for this difference. I would like to make one more comment about equality of opportunity. Equality of opportunity in education means that all children must be able to participate, whether at the Christmas celebration, the school trip or the trip to another country. That really means that children shouldn't be the victims of their parents' wallet. If we were to go along with the amendment that has just been tabled, we would still be able to maintain this inequality of opportunity in education. We can now see that, among other things, the education inspection indicates that there is increasing inequality of opportunity. Let's please stop that with each other. Let us not make proposals which allow us to make a distinction on the basis of what parents can pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u150	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this initiative law. I hear there's been no appreciation of the motion. That is rightly noted from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u151	The motion itself isn't that bad. But if the proposers think that it is preferable to an amendment, I would strongly advise them against that consideration. But the motion itself is fine. The law's just better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u152	Mr President, on a small point of order. Shouldn't a motion to the government also receive an appreciation from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u153	There may also be appreciations from proposers, but perhaps the Minister still has an appreciation to give to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u154	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it is a request to the government, so it is a good thing that I have the opportunity to take the floor. I think that in my first term I have already been clear in my appreciation of the amendments. I have indicated that I understand Mr Heerema and Mr Rog's amendment in their search for ways of preventing certain things. However, there are a number of aspects to this, such as the exclusion of a rule that also enters the law. The inspection cannot therefore supervise that part. So I did not recommend that amendment, just to use those words. I have indicated that Mr Van Meenen's amendment, based on the same search for the law, states that we simply have to make arrangements and that this can best be done through the umbrella bodies. All these profile organisations are already part of this. I would like to take this opportunity briefly: in my first term, I took the word 'wrong' in my mouth. That wasn't very carefully chosen. I meant to say that the way these schemes work per school is simply very different. That can change if you fill it out a little tighter from above. That's just a correction. Then there's this motion. I have therefore indicated my preference for the amendment. If the amendment is not adopted, then this motion will at least again give a mandate to ensure that these agreements are made. But again, it is my preference that the amendment should be included in the legislative proposal, including the balance in the legislative proposal. It is, of course, ultimately up to the Chamber to decide on this, at the time you, as President, decide to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u155	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the deliberations on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-33.u156	The votes on the motion and the amendments will be taken next Tuesday. You now have the opportunity to congratulate the proposers. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
