ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	Yesterday, the group chairmen gave their input and asked questions. Today, the Prime Minister answers these questions on behalf of the cabinet. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to say a single introductory word. I will keep that brief and then immediately outline on the basis of which classification of the themes I will try to structure the answer. But first of all, I must also say that there is, of course, a huge contrast between yesterday morning's shocking news and the beautiful Prince's Day that we had the day before. A horrible murder, an attack on our rule of law, in the streets of Amsterdam on a representative of our legal system. A husband, a father, your mind thinks about it. The murder of attorney Derk Wiersum in Amsterdam has touched us all deeply. That is what I heard in the reactions yesterday in the Chamber, I heard it from the Minister of Justice and Security, in his comments yesterday, I heard it in the reactions in the media, but also in the street. I would therefore like to ask the families of Derk Wiersum to be very strong in this place, here in the democratic heart of our rule of law, at the beginning of my first reply, and to stress once again that the investigation into the matter is of the highest priority. If our worst suspicions are confirmed, another border has been crossed by organised and undermining crime, and that is at the root of our rule of law. We must stand up to this with our full power and our full strength and work for that rule of law. Because the people who are carrying our legal system, who were hit so hard yesterday, the lawyers, the judges, the prosecutors and everyone involved in our legal system, must be able to do their job safely. That is the norm, and that must remain the norm, which is not negotiable. Madam President. I think that most of yesterday's speakers have realised the same thing as I have, namely that the legal system must now do its job and we must, after such a shocking event in this house, show the strength of our democracy and of the democratic debate, of a society in which the word reigns and not violence. That is what we stand for, that is what we do together, and you will notice that yesterday in the debate: that is regardless of the political colour, the political differences. This is also essential for the character of our country, but also for that of this House of Representatives. Madam President. To then move on to yesterday, the debate itself: late...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr President, those are fine and sincere words from the Prime Minister. He will not be surprised that my group and I too fully agree with that. But there is more to it than that: before the Prime Minister starts his speech, there is, of course, more to it. I wonder, because he stands there as Prime Minister of the Netherlands, whether the government is actually still the authority in the Netherlands. Is he still the authority in large parts of our country? If you see what happened in our capital alone, you can't describe it with a pen. Yesterday, unfortunately, the key witness's attorney was murdered, we have already seen the key witness's brother murdered, we have seen a missile attack on Panorama and the New Revu, that there has been an attack on De Telegraaf, that cut off heads for coffee shops, that grenades have been thrown into the street, that journalists like John van den Heuvel van De Telegraaf are seriously threatened and protected. That horrible Moroccan mafia, that poison of Dutch society, controls from Dubai, from South America, from Spain, actually. Are you still in charge? Is the authority still in charge in that Amsterdam whose administration and the city council say that enforcing laws is actually just a right thing? Are we talking here today to the Prime Minister, who is still in charge of the rule of law on behalf of the government, or is it the mocromafia that is in charge? We have all let that happen, or you, and you should have intervened a long time ago!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yes, this parliament, this government, we are the authority of each other. That's unchanged. But the opponent, the enemy, so organized crime, doesn't make it easy for us. The fight we have to deliver is multifaceted and complex and requires a long breath. We are working on this day and day with tens of thousands of people in this country, with the police, with the judiciary. I know that I have my support, and this cabinet and the Minister of Justice know that they are supported by this entire House of Representatives, including Geert Wilders and his party and all the other parties that are here. Can I also congratulate Mr Wilders on the dignified manner in which he opened yesterday's debate on the same subject? So: yes, we are the authority. At the same time: yes, it is not easy for us. The battle we are fighting is extremely complex. But the fact that we will win is absolutely my conviction. And that's also the only outcome we can have here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	I too and my group support you in this fight, but I must be able to ask the political question whether you could not have intervened much earlier. Shouldn't you have intervened much sooner? Of course, it is not all Moroccans who are responsible for the misery that is going on, but it is now, to a large extent, the mocromafia. Surely we have allowed this Moroccan poison, at least of the criminals in the Netherlands? We have to do something about that. Wasn't it much longer known what happened in Amsterdam? I remember the police unions saying a year ago: we need thousands of extra detectives, because we can't handle it. We also know that this terrible Taghi, the most wanted criminal in the Netherlands, has said before: I am going to catch them, the family. Okay, he didn't mention the lawyer, but he did say he was gonna get the family. Shouldn't we have put a bet on extra police, extra detectives and more harshly punished? Shouldn't your government have considered whether the family members, the journalists and the lawyers should be protected? Again, I do not want to say that this could have been prevented, but we could and should have done much more instead of what has happened now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	There are three elements in Wilders' comment. I would like to address all three of them, first of all the issue of security. The Minister of Justice said yesterday that there will be a debate on this very soon. And then we have to talk about all these things. I do not want to rush into this by saying things quickly as a result of what happened yesterday. I don't think Wilders asks that either; I don't hear that in his question, so I don't blame him for that. But all this must of course be properly discussed. We have a whole system of guarding and security in the Netherlands. It's going to be performed in a very secure manner. How this has worked here will of course be reviewed and discussed with each other. At the second level in Mr Wilders' question, I would also like to answer exactly. He's pointing to the mocromafia there. There is; we shouldn't run away from that. And maybe he didn't mean to say that there is a Moroccan problem in the Netherlands, but by the way he formulated it, he seemed to say so. I want to say here that there is a mocromafia problem in the Netherlands. Yeah, there is. There is no Moroccan problem in the Netherlands. The vast majority of the Moroccan community is contributing to this society, just as everyone in this country does. I do not run away from the fact that, unfortunately, Moroccans too often also appear in the wrong statistics and in the wrong lists, for example through the mocromafia. But everyone in this country who is now following this debate and making a positive contribution to this country has supported themselves through this entire House of Representatives and by this government. They know that they are entitled to a contribution to this country as much as anyone. The third level in the question of Wilders, the urgency, underline and endorse. We must win this battle. In recent years, there has been a lot of extra investment in the police and the judiciary, and there is a lot of work being done to prevent undermining. We are going to talk about it today on the basis of the various questions that have been asked about it. No one has to ask whether there is a cabinet here, and a Minister of Justice and a Prime Minister, who are perfectly motivated to eradicate this evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally. People are wondering: do we still have a rule of law in the Netherlands or do we have a narco state? That's what people think. It's indescribable what's happening. "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes" "Eitjes." It can't be described with a pen! You say it is urgent, but it should have been dealt with as quickly as possible. That should have been dealt with last year. Why wasn't they listening to the police who said, "Give us 2,000 detectives at least." I am not going to put all this into the hands of Minister Grapperhaus, but he has wiped out that proposal. He said we're not gonna do that. On his own Twitter, I saw that the day before yesterday he kept a whole story for all rulers about how great that rule of law is. Do we still have a rule of law in the Netherlands? As far as the Moroccans are concerned, we as PVV and I have never said that there are no Moroccans who are good. That's total bullshit. We never suggested that. There are a lot of Moroccans who are good. But don't tell me there's no Moroccan problem. There is a Moroccan poison in Dutch society. Not all of them, but a lot. A majority of Syrians, 80% according to NCTV, were Moroccans. Everyone on the street is troubled by the Moroccans every day. This mafia in Amsterdam is not from Norway but from Morocco. So don't deny that we have a Moroccan problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Let me answer this very precisely, because words are important. I agree with Mr Wilders if he said there was a mocromafia problem. I also agree with him if he would say that Moroccans are overrepresented in the wrong lists of crime or in prison or are part of the wrong side of the justice chain, and unfortunately so are other minorities in the Netherlands. But I'm trying to realize what the word Moroccan problem means when you watch television, and you've come here, or if you have children or grandchildren born here, and if those children or grandchildren are trying to build up a life here. If they hear of a Moroccan problem, then it affects them as well. For me as a liberal and as a member of this liberal democratic society, it is crucial that we always judge people on their individual behaviour and never on the basis of the group to which they belong, if they have no responsibility for what that group as a whole does. I would like to make it very clear here that every Moroccan in the Netherlands who wants to build a life in this country and does so within the limits of the rule of law has our full support. And yes, we're not running away from the fact that, unfortunately, Moroccans are overrepresented in the wrong lists. But that's not a Moroccan problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	If we take out the ethnic component, we won't be facing each other. When it comes to safety and insecurity, Mr Wilders puts his finger on the sore spot. That is a concern that many Dutch people have, especially after yesterday. That a lawyer employed by the rule of law is not sure of his life has so much impact; that is unprecedented. The fact that there was another shooting and another incident is unprecedented. That affects all of us. When we look at the report that has been produced on the situation in Amsterdam, you can see how widespread this mafia is and how deeply rooted evil is. In this respect, we are not opposed to each other, but the Chamber as a whole is in favour of the rule of law and security. But my question is whether this is not of a scale that, for example, also exceeds a city like Amsterdam. Is this not of such magnitude and malice that it requires much more than just the use of local justice and local government? Isn't it something of all of us? How can we support Amsterdam in tackling undermining in the housing market, the real estate that is largely owned by people with bad money, the threats, the destruction of young people, and the grenades that are actually being placed on the doorstep? How can this national problem also be addressed nationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	I fully agree with Mr Segers that the whole issue of undermining is not an Amsterdam only problem. Yesterday we were talking about drug use and about all those people who take pills on Saturday or Sunday or who use soft drugs and say: well, that's all right. Indeed, a lot of them are allowed in this country. But keep in mind that you are also contributing to a chain that is ultimately deep in the undermining of this society. The theme of undermining not only affects Amsterdam. Look at what to do in Brabant and Zeeland, however it starts to fan out to a province like Gelderland, and to other parts of the country. How we are working to ensure that we are dealing with this whole system step by step and fundamentally. That can only be done if we stand shoulder to shoulder. You can't just leave that to the city of Amsterdam. We don't. That is why the Minister of Justice, Mr Grapperhaus, and the entire cabinet, are working to tackle this, in line with the coalition's coalition coalition coalition agreement. There are now people watching, for example in parts of Brabant, in the countryside, who are being put under pressure to maybe start a weed plantation. Those people have to make the choice: do I choose the right side, or do I feel insufficiently protected, let me put pressure on myself, and do I choose the wrong side? What I want and what the whole cabinet wants to do for this is to have a whole undermining approach that people are taking the right side, that we are on their side and that we will do everything we can to ensure that people do not feel pressure and that they know the rule of law on their side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	There are a lot of people of good will and a lot of people who do indeed choose to be on the right side and say no to this. But there are also people who are somewhere in the twilight zone. They can be farmers in Brabant, they can be people with a basement or an attic where they can grow anything, or set up a laboratory, saying: I can make something more than with the job I have now. It is also about real estate dealers in Amsterdam. On many levels, there are people who are somewhere in that twilight area. These are also young boys who may or may not make the choice to become a drug runner. We can't get them on the right side with just words. We cannot just say that if we now radiate any firmness, we will be fine. We have nothing here but words, yet the question is: what steps are we going to take? In what way are we going to ensure that we draw a line here? That we say: up to here and no further, because now the security, the rule of law and also the confidence that citizens have in us and in the rule of law are really coming under pressure. That's at stake now. What steps are we going to take in the near future to win this war?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	I'm going to answer that question very precisely. I'm just gonna grab the Brabant countryside. Those who consciously say that they can earn something by doing this, even if they do not feel pressured, we have to fight hard. My main concern is the people who want to be on the right side, but who feel pressured and wonder if we are on their side. We will have to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with that group and radiate it and show it in everything we do that we are their partner. We do a great deal for that. The cabinet has made tackling the undermining crime an integral priority. It is not for nothing that we have earmarked money for this in the coalition agreement. We have also made additional funds available for the structural approach to this problem. We are talking about 100 million and 10 million in structural terms. We have also made plans to invest 30 million in improving the taking away of criminal assets, a very specific problem. A whole package of undermining legislation has been put in place that now has to do its job. Mr Heerma of the CDA said something about this yesterday. He said: should you not place the same integrated approach at the centre and include all aspects relating to these issues, for example, to the fight against drug crime? Additional measures will be needed. Mr Heerma referred to intervention teams, with specific capacity, in which you can pool knowledge and expertise, so that you can force breakthroughs in dealing with complex, often international, undermining issues. That appeals to us. We have, of course, to ensure that we do everything within fundamental rights and respect privacy, all at your service, but that does not mean that we can work very intensively together to ensure that this is stopped. Of course, there is also the question of how to move people not to take this step. As a result of yesterday's debate, I would like to say straight away that, in line with the proposals that came out of the Chamber yesterday, we would like to see whether we can, in the first instance, make additional money, on top of what we are all doing, in order to resolve the problems. Minister Grapperhaus of Justice will do that, along with Kajsa Ollongren of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	Before I give you the floor again, Mr Segers, I'll take a look at the Prime Minister. Safety will come back, but since it is so topical, I would like to deal with this issue at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have the same concerns. Indeed, we are standing shoulder to shoulder here as well. It is good that these steps are taken, but after yesterday and certainly after the Tops and Tromp report, we all feel the urgency. We all feel that we cannot accept last year's answers or the answers from two weeks ago, but that we must take new steps. I know the Prime Minister's intention. I know which side the cabinet is on and what it's doing. However, in the light of what happened yesterday, it would be good to reflect once again on the defence of the rule of law and our security, to rewrite what we want, but perhaps take a few more steps, and to discuss this with each other in a wider debate. 'Cause it's about time. It is indeed do or die for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Sure. What Mr Segers says does indeed appeal to me. You're gonna have to. The legislation that has been introduced, whether it is in the pipeline or in the Chambers, must ensure that penalties are possible, that the police are given an extension of their powers, that justice and mayors are given an extension of their powers and that their information position improves, so that they know exactly what is happening and can act on it. All these things are now being worked by Grapperhaus, supported where necessary by Ollongren, and by the entire cabinet. Yesterday, this urgency is showing one more time. I am very much in favour of having a broader debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	These are good steps: powers, resources and the willingness to do whatever is necessary. But I'm worried about what's gonna happen back there, if we're gonna do it. We simply have the tradition of being reluctant as a country to do so. The shock goes away, and the bandwidth of what shockes us changes. The first time, you're shocked because a criminal is being wound up. Then we're shocked because there's been a mix-up. Now we're rightly shocked because a lawyer was murdered. When we talk about measures, you often see the following. We've had times with more powers for the police. Something goes wrong. Then we'll rush into a cramp and we'll reverse those powers. But once you're in a situation where mayors are not only worried about criminal acts, but also wonder if they can trust every council member, or if you're not in a situation where you're in a situation where it's not even a shock if someone had plants in the attic because otherwise, in the crisis, they couldn't pay the mortgage, where you're only shocked when someone starts shooting, when that norm blur is like that, and when what we think is normal and what we think is absurd is shifting, then you need more than what we've been doing so far and now, i.e. pulling back the leg when something happens. That is necessary, and that is good, but then you must dare to take unorthodox measures. Look at countries that have been in that situation, where lawyers have been killed and eventually even judges, or where family members of people who work for the magistrate and protect us are threatened. Then it is necessary to pass a few steps, to create as soon as possible powers and legislation that the police do not have in all cases, but only to deal with this organized crime, only in these serious cases. Then you need people who have to do their job in circumstances that involve a heavy security that may not actually be asked for, but which you have to offer in advance to everyone involved. Then you need those powers, but also the mentality to use them. Then you should not have the intention here to give powers, and then at the ministry again to hold six discussion sessions on the balance between the privacy of criminals and the approach. Then it's gone too far. I hope that, in addition to this good start today, there will also be a willingness to move forward if we make these measures concrete and enable those people to do that work. Then you have another battle than just prosecuting a criminal and trying to put him in jail with a heavier sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	I endorse what Dijkhoff says. For the sake of clarity, I would say that it is not the case that these things were conceived after yesterday. Tackling the undermining and organised and orchestrated action with all the levels of government to deal with this is, of course, part of the government agreement of this cabinet. That legislation is there, or it is coming. I understand what Dijkhoff is saying. After yesterday, you're gonna have to weigh down again that's enough, if everything's in there that you want. That's gonna have to be integral. We have, of course, examples: look at the approach in Rotterdam-Zuid, where integrity is sought both in the prevention and in the fight against crime, so that you get behind the front door, manage to eradicate evil and prevent further undermining of the rule of law. I therefore support that argument, but I would add that a great deal is already happening. We will have to weigh that again after what happened yesterday. I want to prevent the people at home from creating the image that we are just beginning to see. This was set in motion on all sides at the formation in 2017. By the way, that was also building on what the previous cabinet did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	Sure. That is why I think it is good that we have been able to keep up in response, but I think we are about to have to move on. We need to get ahead of ourselves for some serious measures. For example, if we are not allowed to share files with each other through all kinds of regulations, people simply go behind a laptop in a room to tell each other very pragmaticly, so to speak, secretly what they see in their files, otherwise you won't get those criminals caught. I'm also in favour of heavier penalties, but they're not gonna scare off. They're just using teenagers who aren't gonna get much punishment, if we can find out which hoodie it was. It's part of the business model that's in jail. It is part of the business model that people are being killed and that risks are being taken. These are not individual standard criminals that can be dealt with by individual criminal law. I understand that the Prime Minister cannot immediately say unilaterally that we are all going to do it, but this is also a call for after today when it comes to working out in ministries. The call is that this is just fighting organized crime. That's another branch of sport than just the classic concept of "crime, then catch the perpetrator and then punish him through the judge."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	I very much agree with that. That is precisely what it is in that term undermining, the risk of the interlinking of the upper world and the underworld, as a kind of core concept within it. My main focus, and that of the whole cabinet, is what I said before, namely that we are on the side of the people who want the good. We want to avoid infiltrating the upper world: regional or local politics, criminal justice chains and so on. That must be countered, so that everyone knows: we are on the side of the people who want to fight this. They will have our full support. So that also means that if it is necessary to share the information, bang through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	It is a good thing that we begin this debate in such a way as to be united and determined in the fight against organised crime, even after yesterday's horrific events. It is rightly said that this is another border crossing. We have indeed talked about this before in the Chamber, but there is something that still worries me. If the Prime Minister also says "we want and are going to win that battle," then you should also see if everything is in order on our side. What I see and hear from the side of organised crime is a very fast and good exchange of information. What I see on the government's side is a lot of good intentions and good powers, but sharing information is very difficult. There are many legal or experienced barriers. Services often take too long for them to work together. My question is: will the Prime Minister pay particular attention in the near future to this issue of the rapid and sound exchange of information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	Sure. The package of undermining legislation that is now in place, and which has been partly dealt with by the Chambers, is also intended to do so. The aim is also to ensure that authorities are able to share information much more quickly and that police, of course, justice and mayors are able to do so much more quickly from the point of view of public order. That is one of the aspects, but as I have just said in connection with the previous interruption, such an event as yesterday is also a reason to look again at such a package: are we doing everything that is needed? It's always good to do that. It's the least you can do after such a terrible event.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	But we know how persistent this point is, because it is not the first time that it has been pointed out. This also emerged, for example, in the whole problem of confused persons. This turns out to be every time. Even if we ask Parliamentary questions which have to be answered by several departments, you will see all that takes time. So it remains embedded in the government apparatus that passes time, also due to privacy barriers. We really need to see how we can speed up this and improve it and not stick to good intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	This may also require the thought of the intervention teams that came up yesterday, with which you have labelled capacity and bundling of knowledge and expertise, so that in good Dutch all systems in the room are put together. So that's everyone who's involved in a case like this. That is necessary because these matters are often complex. Dijkhoff pointed out: the somewhat older teenager who is sometimes responsible for the most horrible events, which is now very visible in our cities, is not the core of the network. Those teenagers are part of the network. In order to be able to completely dissect that and to penetrate into that complexity to the deepest level, where you also have to deal with international aspects.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So that is part of that acceleration, including the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	I appreciate the way in which the Prime Minister at the beginning of his speech considered yesterday's event and also the way in which he outlined how all carriers of the rule of law deserve protection. Not everything needs to be redesigned. Not everything's new. At least one of the elements of the problem is lack of police capacity. We know that. This has been reported by the cities, after a 16-year-old boy was shot out of life and after the problems of organized crime got bigger and bigger. We know that. My question to the Prime Minister is simply to say this day that extra police capacity will be available to keep the cities safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'm not gonna make all kinds of new commitments here now. As a cabinet, we're just expanding the police capacity. One of the big problems we have is accelerating the training of the agents, so that they can be deployed well prepared. But if Mr Asscher asks for extra money to be given now, then I say the following. I have already promised that, in the context of the comments from various political groups too, I would mention Mr Heerma, but they also came from others to see which bottlenecks we can resolve occasionally with extra money in the coming period. That's what we're gonna do. We will, of course, also report to the Chamber on this, including the exact amounts involved. But I want to take away the image that this cabinet wouldn't invest in the police. This cabinet is already investing in the police. The big issue now is: how do we ensure that we get well-trained agents in surgery as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	The Prime Minister responds a little politically to my question. I didn't put up an image. I didn't talk about what the Cabinet does and doesn't do. I read it, too. Nor do I want to combat the fact that we must also look at powers and measures that we have not taken before. But I dare say as a fact, without talking about a question of guilt and without saying that it would be easy to solve, that there is too little police capacity, that there are too few prosecutors, that there is a problem in combating this organized crime because there are too few detectives who can figure out such a case. That's not a whole new thing. I don't care about politics. This is what I'm talking about. If you say here 'we'll do what it takes' and if you don't stick an amount on it now, then you should be prepared to speak towards the city of Amsterdam, towards Brabant, towards all those cities where people are wondering whether they're still safe or running around shooting, that there's more police capacity, if it's not today than tomorrow, and if it's not tomorrow then the day after tomorrow. That's what I'm asking you. And then we'll talk about your coalition agreement later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	I understand Mr Asscher's question very well. I also understand very well against the background of yesterday's terrible events. But I would also like to give sincere answers here. My sincere answer is then that this cabinet invests in additional police capacity and that the big issue now is how to train people and get them on the streets as quickly as possible. We also know that, of course, agents retire, which is justified after working hard. We're gonna have to fill that up. In many sectors, such as education and care, we see the issue of finding enough people to fill jobs. I don't want to get the impression that you're just gonna solve this with an extra pot of money. There's extra money going on. That is how I understood Mr Asscher. He asked me if he didn't, I misunderstood him, but that's how I understood him, and I say in all honesty whether I can commit extra money to the police. Then I say: I am currently seeing a number of other issues that we need to solve, and extra money goes to the police. That would be my reaction. If I've misunderstood him, I'd like to be briefed on what he wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	It wasn't that complicated what I said. I didn't talk about money. I didn't talk about the coalition agreement. I have pointed out that the cities tell us that there are not enough police. I think they're right about that. I think the Minister of Justice confirms that, too. There is not enough specialised capacity. There's not enough capacity. The same goes for the district attorneys. If you open here with "we'll do whatever it takes to win this," I think that this doesn't include the commitment of an amount, but the statement that we'll take care of that capacity. That is a political statement, which does have meaning and which will also cost money. But I don't think money is the problem of this cabinet right now. The problem is that our rule of law has been attacked. So I didn't ask you for a reflection or for an image. I asked you for the answer "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	I just answered the question. It is really more nuanced than what Mr Asscher is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for taking up the proposals I made earlier this summer on the Tops and Tromp report. There's a tough fight going on from a narco state against the rule of law. We can't afford to lose that battle. That requires people, resources and opportunities. The Prime Minister states here that the cabinet is in favour of the suggestion that people should be involved in a special intervention team. That's good. He has also indicated that the Navy's note will look into the possibility of additional money being made available in the short term. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	That's good, too. But I am not reassured by the answer when it comes to the possibilities, because it is not that this is suddenly the question because of yesterday's event. There is legislation, but there has also been the issue for a long time, Mr Dijkhoff has just mentioned whether the possibilities available on paper are being applied in practice, or whether there are so many guarantees that mayors and executive services that ultimately do not use or cannot use in practice. Mayors have also sent a letter of fire about this. I would like to hear more clearly from the Prime Minister that not only is this team going to be there, but that I myself used the term Crisis and Recovery Act; that was also used at the time when the cabinet is going to ensure that there really is a perseverance force and that it is going to happen in practice that criminals are really being struck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	I would like to reiterate that we will once again weigh up the legislation that exists and which comes into being on this particular issue. Is it facilitating, is it helping, to allow the exchange of information between justice, mayors and the police that is the purpose of that legislation to run as quickly as possible? This is crucial here. That is what this legislation is about. But the least we can do after yesterday, also because of today's interventions and because of what I myself say about it, is to see again whether we are doing everything there. That is how I understand Mr Heerma's question. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you. This is a clearer answer. But the Prime Minister didn't take one element. Does this, by analogy with the Crisis and Recovery Act or, if necessary, through emergency legislation, explicitly consider the possibility of a real perseverance force, so that organised crime is hit by the rule of law? If necessary, only on the team. It may even be temporary. That was the same with the Crisis and Recovery Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	I'm sure I've heard that suggestion. If necessary, we will take it seriously. But we need to see if this legislation is sufficient. That's why we need that weighting. So I'm not gonna promise that we're gonna do it, because I don't know if it's necessary. But if Mr Heerma asks me if I am prepared to look at unorthodox instruments, if necessary, then my answer is yes. Am I willing to do that quickly? My answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	Finally, Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	In what way will we be informed about this? This legislation is partly in the Chamber. Is the cabinet going to come back proactively with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	I believe that there is a letter or a debate with the Minister of Justice on yesterday's terrible events. He sent a first letter yesterday. I can imagine that, also in the wake of this debate, a second letter will follow with a weighting for that legislation and the suggestions that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'm glad we're really standing here shoulder to shoulder, because this is something we don't want for each of us. Last summer, following the report De backder van Nederland, I went to see what was going on in my own environment. The whole idiot thing is that the places I live and where I was born are all in that book. That's gonna get weirdly close. I talked to the drivers, and I talked to the police. They all say the same thing; they want structural money and I understand that. But above all, I have spoken with the citizens, with the people who are affected by it. And these people all say: we are so scared; we know much more but we dare not tell. That is why I made a proposal last week in the drug debate to give a decent reward and a decent protection to these people, who could help us all in this way. These people are on top of it and know exactly where the criminals are and where the police should intervene in their neighborhoods and streets. Would the cabinet please use that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	I have not been able to follow that part of the debate very precisely last week. I understand this was discussed last week. Can I leave that in the context of the debate that Mr Krol had with the Minister of Justice and Security? But I have already said that my greatest concern is not even the one who consciously decides to go against the law to deal with drug trafficking and undermining. In that sense, I think Krol and I are in complete agreement. We have to fight them hard. My main concern is the people Mr Krol means, for example those who feel pressured to do so themselves. Such a person wonders whether the rule of law protects him sufficiently so that he does not have to take that step. Those who have to make the choice: am I one of those who are good or those who are bad, and what does the rule of law support me? We are of course also referring to the people who do not experience this pressure, but experience the great nuisance. That's what moves us. Mr Krol specifically asked for remuneration and protection. I understand that was part of last week's drug debate. Can I just leave it there for now? I do not have the latest state of affairs; I do not know exactly how that debate ran last week. But I think we are in complete agreement on what we want to achieve here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	I understand that and I will leave it at that debate. I have now been promised by the Minister of Justice that he will send a reply within two months. But I would like to emphasise it again, because you and I are both looking for unorthodox methods to deal with this drug crime. Because of what I experienced last summer, that is in my view something that is going to take us a whole step further. I am therefore anxiously waiting for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his fine words and for the connection he is seeking. I'm thinking of all those police officers and officers who do their utmost every day to deal with this organized crime. But let's see what happens now. We, as politicians, and also this Prime Minister, have made it more difficult for them. If we now see that next year's police operational strength will be lower than in 2012, then we know that wrong choices have been made here. There's been substantial cuts there. Does the Prime Minister agree with me and can he acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	Over the past eight years, the Netherlands has been going through one of the most serious crises in post-war history. This means that we have had to move the beacons in many areas. The good news is that we have come out of that, that we have a rapidly growing economy and can invest heavily in the quality of our government, our rule of law. We do so on many fronts. The answer to Mr Klaver's question can only be given in the context of one of the most serious post-war financial and economic crises affecting our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	We know this answer from the Prime Minister. That is what he gives when we ask about the consequences of austerity policy. I'm not here to take the Prime Minister's measure. We were all there, including my party. It is about recognising that all those police officers, officers and judges, anyone who tries to tackle organised crime, must do it with less resources at the moment. That is not their fault, but the responsibility of politics. I'm interested in that recognition. Why do I care about this recognition? In the context of this year's budget, we see that police intensifications are being postponed. The same applies to the appointment of auxiliary officers to ensure that more people can really be punished and that we stand firmer in court. We can see that the investments in the Special Intervention Service that are to take down serious criminals are being pushed forward. Those aren't the right choices, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	Then I have to answer the question in general terms, because this also applies to health care and education. For all the major sectors of our society, we have gone through one of the worst financial and economic storms after the Second World War, with 17 million people, and we have all paid a price for it. We all did. We've put our backs on it. It is my view that, partly because we have done this with 17 million people, we now have a country with an economy that is growing much faster than that in the surrounding countries. So now you're seeing the results. That makes us able to invest again. If Mr. Klaver said to me "recognize that a cop or a prosecutor can't do anything about it," he's a thousand percent right. I'll acknowledge that immediately. In the end, those are people who are trying to do their job with an enormous sense of responsibility. They must be supported by Clover, by me and by Dutch politics as a whole. They too have absolutely experienced that the Netherlands has had to take very difficult measures in recent years. There's nothing they can do about it. If that is Mr Klaver's point, I say once, that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	Sure, that's one point. That's good. But with that there is a great responsibility with us. When I look at the budget, I see that my question focuses on it. I ask the Prime Minister whether that is the right choice, especially in the light of all the events. I do not need a commitment now, but perhaps it is time to reflect on whether other choices should be made in the months before the budget of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	In the context of budgetary treatment, of course, all these budgets are reflected. I think that is a valid point for Klaver. I am not saying that he is right on the specific points he mentions, but it is time to reflect on these issues, of course against the background of what happened yesterday. The whole budget is expansive, very expansive. We invest heavily, also extra in the criminal justice chain and in the police. If there are views at GroenLinks about the specific timing or rhythm of certain intensifications, then we need to talk about this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his opening speech, in which he once again made it clear that we will not bow to serious crime and undermining. I believe that the debate so far shows that we fully support this with all parties. What happened yesterday in Amsterdam should not become normal in the Netherlands. We're gonna have to play hardball with that. As far as my group is concerned, the main focus is now also on monitoring and securing all those lawyers, officers and witnesses involved in this type of trial. If we can reach a package of measures with mayors and the police in the near future so that we can tackle undermining even more effectively, my group will certainly support it. I'd like to warn you, too. We have to be realistic. Even with an even better approach to undermining and serious crime, the drug criminals are not necessarily reported. Experts, lawyers and mayors warn that these problems will always be there, as long as the business model of drug production and drug trafficking is there. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore to look not only at how we can better organise the approach to undermining, but also at what works and how we can dismantle the business model of the drug criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	If there's demand, there's supply, you'd say very cynical. That is how I understand Mr Jetten. But this requires something from all of us. Grapperhaus has said something about that. That was a bit laughy at the time, but I very much agreed with him. That question starts with the individual young 18, 9 years old who goes to a dance party and takes a pill. It starts with a high school kid who goes to the coffee shop and smokes his first joint. All this ultimately contributes to a system in which crime thrives, in which undermining takes place. There's a lot in this country. I am also in favour of us being a free country. But that individual responsibility applies to all of us. Mr Jetten points out the whole chain. This is part of the whole chain. We have to be real about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	It is precisely because we need to be real that there will always be supply and demand that we have to take this into account in our policies. Look at America, where they've been feeding a war on drugs for years. It has only led to more war, more drugs and more war. That's a vicious circle that the Americans can't get out of either. We've had prohibition in this country, too. That didn't stop people from taking a platter from time to time. So yes, to tackle organised crime and undermining hard, but not to ignore the fact that there will always be supply and demand. So we need to look at where we can regulate this in such a way that it can be safe for the user and we can get rid of the business model among the criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	I agree with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	It's a good thing we're starting this debate. It is good that the Prime Minister has strong words and that the 100 million is now being made structural. I've heard everyone's contribution. It's also a good thing we're shoulder to shoulder. I actually only have one question for the Prime Minister. How is it possible that we stand here despite all the calls we have seen from the police officers, from the unions, from the detectives, from the mayors, not to mention that much more is needed than what was given, that much more is needed than the cabinet still wants to do today? How is it possible that we are standing here today and the Prime Minister says: after yesterday we have looked at what is needed, because it was necessary to do so, and now the 100 million becomes structural? How is it possible that she, those mayors, those police officers, those detectives, knocked on our door for so long and that door doesn't seem to be going anywhere until now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u57	It wasn't like that at all. I have just explained this in detail. That's just not how it happened. I will summarize it very briefly. I have just explained that we have already started this approach with the previous cabinet, that this cabinet has decided to take a look at the coalition agreement, with the undermining fund, in order to intensify this heavily, to fight that battle. That was October 2017, when this cabinet took office. That's what money has been spent on. That's all being done. Additional investments are being made in the criminal justice chain, including the police. That's what we're all doing. That wasn't yesterday. What I have just said on the basis of the interruptions is that I too feel that, as a result of yesterday, you should look again at whether all the legislation in preparation is indeed sufficient, for example on the issue of the exchange of information. You have to look at that through the glasses of yesterday's terrible events.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u58	My point is that I find it unimaginable that the Prime Minister says: we are going to look through the glasses of yesterday's events. He should've listened to those cops who made an appeal a long time ago to add extra detectives. He should have listened to those mayors who said a long time ago: we are not gonna make it; there is an enormous shortage of capacity. The district cop's been cut off, Prime Minister. You know that, too. You must not run away from that, but you must answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u59	It just doesn't add up. The image that Mrs Marijnissen evokes is that by yesterday we say: oh, there is an undermining problem, let us make money, plans and laws. It just isn't. We've been working on this for years. This is a tough issue. This has to be one step at a time. It's also prevention. It's the hard way to tackle the undermining and crime. The focus of this debate this morning is the rapid exchange of information between justice, police and mayors. I have just said that we need to look again at legislation that is already in place, or is already there, through the lens of, for example, that speed of information. The Minister of Justice will send another letter for the debate. There's the issue of an intervention team. So that's what we're doing. Those are accents from yesterday's terrible event. But I'm far from throwing that we were snoring until yesterday and all of a sudden we're doing that now. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u60	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u61	Finally, Mr President. No one here has said that the Prime Minister is snoring, but I am addressing the Prime Minister to the fact that the police have been cut for years. I address the Prime Minister to the fact that it is those police officers, those detectives and those mayors who have been calling the bell much earlier and much longer. If you look at what the cabinet is doing now, we have to say that this is too little. Then it can be said that the crisis was and that cuts had to be made, but it is clear that there is no crisis now. In fact, there's money left. Prime Minister, listen to those police officers, listen to those detectives, listen to those mayors and get more capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u62	Okay, once, and so do we. That's why we invest a lot of extra money in the police, in the criminal justice chain and in legislation. I also very much appreciate the speed at which this can often be done in the Chamber. Suggestions have been made to do so even faster where necessary. So Mrs Marijnissen and I really agree on that. Mr. Chairman. Then at the point of safety. A few other questions have been asked about safety that I'm about to come up with. I would just like to say a few words in the introduction to yesterday's debate. Yesterday we had the first term of the Chamber in the debate on the Throne speech and the General Political Reviews. I had to think about Piet de Jong, who unfortunately died a few years ago but didn't exactly break the button; he was over 100 years old. He compared the comments on the throne speech once with the annual visit to the dentist, but that was different yesterday. It was another first term of the Chamber. I will return to this at the very end of my first term. There have also been comments made by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver, but also by the CDA, the VVD and other parties, on which I will reflect at the end, including on the whole point of scoreboard policy. But it was a different deadline yesterday. Many suggestions have been made and additional plans put forward. There was also criticism. Yes, of course, it is also a battle for ideas that we are pursuing here, but it is in a way that I think was at the heart of the search for joint steps forward and trying to agree on points. The core of what the cabinet has wanted to say through the speech of the throne and through the Millions note is, in a sentence summarized: yes, the Netherlands is doing well but we also have to be careful because we are not an island. Where the economy is going well, we have to deal with these international developments. That is what I want to choose from today's response. Then you have to look at three things all the time. Firstly, where the cabinet already intended to do so, make sure that we are doing so. So we're here to talk about care, security, defence and education. Are we doing what we promised? The second is that now that the cabinet is here and we have these developments, you also need to look again at matters that are urgent and that require extra effort. We have just discussed the legal system in the Netherlands in detail, but it also applies, for example, to youth care and the housing market. It also applies to the earthquakes in Groningen. This is not new from the past few years, but we are now very busy to see if we can speed up the extraction of gas, for example. Well, that's what I'm here to talk about. Whatever you have to do, that's the third element... that's looking to the future. I was very happy earlier this year that, also a bit in yesterday's atmosphere, we managed to get broad political support with each other for tackling long-term pensions and long-term climate. I come to the question of how we invest in our growth potential, in our earning capacity as a society so that in the future there will be nice jobs but also tax revenues to pay for the health system, social security etc. That's a third lead. So I'll do what we agreed. Additional investment where this is now needed but also preparing the country for the long term in the areas of pensions and climate and in the area of where our economy will be in a number of years' time. I will come back to that. Against that background, I would like to start with our economy. I shall now turn to a number of questions that have been asked in a very specific way. For example, shouldn't you continue to reduce public debt? There are countries that are already doing that. Mr Van der Staaij referred to this. Should you not continue to reduce public debt and even apply a standard of debt of 25%, for example? It's true that that would increase your shock resistance. You then have a larger capacity to expand the budget if there were major crises, similar to those in 2008 and 2009. At the same time, I am also thinking of our assets now, when we are really reducing public debt very quickly as a percentage of national income and can even pay off a little on that sovereign debt in a number of years. That'll stop in two years, I have to say. Then we go back to a deficit, but then the percentage will still fall because the economy continues to grow rapidly. You have to find a balance in that. I believe that this balance is now in place, both in the Stability and Growth Pact and in what the Cabinet is doing here. Of course, against the background of the interest charges that are developing in a direction which makes it possible to make additional investments, I think we have found a good balance in this. I also think that we are working towards a safe level of debt, so that we are able to take such a blow. But, of course, Mr Van der Staaij is right: if you would go further, these particular glasses obviously have a greater shock resistance as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'll see if you have anything to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u64	Not at this point, Mr. Chairman. The next point I would like to address is the Community Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u65	It is true that not many parties from the Chamber asked whether the public debt would fall sufficiently. More often, they asked whether we should not add some extra money here or there. That might also be a bit of a political majority formation at the moment. But that's also a risk. Looking at past experience, it turned out that we had to cut back drastically in bad times. My concern is: if, in economically good times, we get to a budget deficit so quickly again, how will we move defence expenditure, for example, to the desired level? Do we not say: yes, there is really no money for that now? You'll see that again in a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u66	Van der Staaij is right, of course. Those are the considerations that we have to make here with each other very precisely. On the one hand, you want to get the budget and its resilience to shocks in order and you want to apply the system very precisely. At the same time, you must, of course, ensure that, if something happens or there are major expenditures, you can also do that. Of course he's right about that. Only, the question is, where do you make that balance? I also heard parties yesterday saying you should spend more now. I would just like to point out that next year's surplus is already much less than this year and that we are going back to a deficit the following year. That's not necessarily because we're spending so much now. This also has to do with the development of the economy as a whole, and with regard to social security, but certainly also with regard to health care, we must, of course, try to keep that expenditure under control step by step, without compromising quality. It shouldn't be a cuckoo boy who can push other expenses out of the nest. These are all issues that arise. I myself think that we find a good balance here, keeping to the path as it is now. You can also see that the years after that, the growing economy continues to reduce public debt as a percentage of our national income. But again, of course, Van der Staaij is right. If you bring it back to zero, then of course you're more shock-resistant than if it's at 40% or 45%. That's just true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u67	Returning to zero would of course be fantastic, but that is another big leap. However, I noticed that a country such as Sweden, the Council of State, also pointed out in its opinion as a budgetary supervisor, had adopted a very low standard, but also saw scope for making necessary investments. Would the Prime Minister be prepared to look at how that works in Sweden, how that works, to see if we can learn from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u68	I'm not gonna give you a letter or anything, if that's the question. If Mr. Van der Staaij says "keep informed," I'll say yes. Thanks to his input yesterday, I thought: interesting what Sweden is doing. At the same time, the reality is that such a choice in the Netherlands, with the development of our healthcare expenditure and our social security expenditure and the underlying growth of the economy, would require drastic, very drastic interventions that I do not think anyone wants to take on political responsibility. I therefore believe that we should be open to what is happening there. I am also looking at the Baltic countries: a country such as Estonia has a sovereign debt well below the Swedish level. But if you look at our type of economies in this part of Europe, very internationally connected and very strongly export driven, we are now really working towards a debt level and a sovereign debt rate of national income that is really manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u69	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u70	Finally. My colleague Mr Stoffer will undoubtedly repeat that question in the General Financial Reviews and then I will rely on a well prepared answer, so it will be fine. But just another thought experiment. I already mentioned the DOD. There we are certainly not just rushing towards 2%. Luckily, there's money coming in. Repairing and modernising, beautiful. But defense spending is going to fall again as a percentage of what we make with each other. We're dangling at the bottom somewhere. How is that budget deficit gonna make any extra money for the Defense Department, which is necessary to move on? What does the perspective look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u71	With the start of this cabinet, of course, we have invested a lot more in Defense. This year, we have been able to make extra money for the Defence Department in the Millions Note for 2020. For example, we buy extra F-35s, we invest in very specific defence capabilities. The aim is to work towards 2% of national income in 2024. That's the deal we all made in NATO. I believe this cabinet is going to be there until 2021... If there is space in the coming period, then of course, in the spirit of the Van der Staaij motion of a number of years ago, we will always make that weighting again and again, which is also stated in the Defence Note, in order to grow to that 2% in balance with other political and social issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u73	Then about the Municipal Fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u74	I see that Mr Wilders also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u75	The Prime Minister is talking in the block about the government debt and the deficit / surplus about the low interest rates. I ask him to reflect on how, among other things, we have low interest rates in this country and who are affected by them. One of the reasons, not the only one, but an important one, is that we no longer have our own monetary policy. The ECB in Frankfurt keeps interest rates low to buy those debt securities in Italy and Greece. A lot of Dutch people who have saved some money and people who have a pension suffer from it. Yesterday I put an interruption in the speech of a colleague of the Group of the European People's Party, who was quite enthusiastic about a possible investment fund that could be due to these low interest rates. Do you see these major disadvantages of low interest rates, such as European policy, for people with savings and, above all, for pensioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u76	Of course, exactly for the groups mentioned by Mr Wilders there are those disadvantages. That's obvious. But here too, the answer must be very precise. He calls the ECB. Firstly, I am extremely reluctant to comment on the ECB's monetary policy, because it has been agreed that it is independent. In the Maastricht Treaty, we did not want that bank to be subject to political supervision. This would mean that some countries which are less strict on budgetary discipline would be able to make use of it. So I'm reluctant to do that. However, I would like to try to answer the question. I have also had the discussion a few times with a specific member of the CDA Group, Mr Omtzigt. There's low interest rates worldwide. Denmark and Switzerland currently have even lower interest rates than the euro area. We see the same thing in Japan and in America. This has largely also to do with the ageing population and the lack of investment in the world. That's why the interest rate is so low. Wilders is, of course, right: the ECB does not contribute to raising interest rates. That buy-back programme has a further downward effect on interest rates. But I do not want to give the impression here that the ECB is responsible for the low interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u77	You say it doesn't help. I think that if we could have conducted our own monetary policy and we could have set our own interest rates, we would have made different choices than the ECB. Indirectly, it has to do with it. But my question is actually about the following. Those who can at least do nothing about this interest are the elderly in the Netherlands. They will soon have a heavy burden, and they will have a big price to pay, if it continues that, among other things, those low interest rates mean that their pensions will have to be cut. They've already paid massively in the last few years. An AOW member with a small supplementary pension of €20,000 has had to return at least €200 per month in the last ten years. It now gets €20, the one percent of the cabinet. But if there's a cut, he could lose tens, maybe hundreds of euros. So I also ask the Prime Minister: are you, as the leader of this cabinet and this coalition, prepared to guarantee the elderly of the Netherlands that their pensions will not be reduced next year? Wouldn't that be fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u78	First of all, I would like to comment on the point that it would all be different if you were talking about your own monetary policy. Denmark and Switzerland are about their own monetary policy, and it is no different. In fact, they have an even lower interest rate than the Netherlands. So let us really beware of making this just an ECB problem. Now to pensions: that guarantee can't even give Wilders. There's no one to give it to. What you can guarantee is that you will do everything you can to prevent it. That's what you do in two ways. First of all, you do this by looking outside pensions at how the purchasing power picture develops. The cabinet takes all measures in the taxes, in the tax rebates, but also in the full indexing of the AOW. This is how we do what we can: organize everything outside pensions in such a way that the elderly take full advantage of it. The pensions themselves are more complicated. We have promised, on the basis of Van Dijk's motion from the Labour Party, that Koolmees will talk to funds and social partners to see if we can avoid unnecessary discounts. But what Geert Wilders said yesterday is this: you have to sit down at that calculus rate. That is really unwise, because if you would do that, then let me say it in a very general way. You will break the basic solidarity between young generations and older generations. Quite simply: 20 years ago, a fund had to have €21 to have a pension of €100 twenty years later. At present, such a fund must have €91 in cash in order to be able to pay €100 twenty years later. That is simply the effect of how interest has developed at the moment. If you don't find that fair and say, "Oh, put that rate of calculation a little higher" Mr. Krol also referred to it; ah, there he is! You really are taking a walk with the solidarity in the system. So no one can make that promise, not even Geert Wilders. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u79	Well, I can certainly make that promise, and I'd like to make that promise, too. The funds have more money than ever. In recent years, this has risen from 750 billion to 1,500 billion. The proceeds, the revenus, of the investments are often in large funds towards the 10% if you look over twenty years. For that, no matter how you don't look at one or two years. You can say that we are looking at purchasing power, but once again, the purchasing power for the elderly, who have handed in for years, is 1% in your Millions note. That's assuming they won't be cut short. So if that promise and that motion of the Chamber are not carried out, and if it is cut, then they are going backwards for the seventh year in a row. What I am asking of you is something for the years to come; I know it cannot last forever. I would ask you to say that the elderly have already paid so much and have been so much ruined by this economic growth, and that they are no longer able to work and cannot take a job to improve their income, so I, Mark Rutte, make sure that they are not cut short next year. That's not asking over. It's not for 100 years, it's for next year, given their income situation. Just do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u80	Then Geert Wilders has to tell the whole story, too. For he rightly points out that he is right in saying that what these pension funds have in cash has doubled. He's right about that. But then he must also tell us that the obligations have tripled. They have risen from 475 billion to 1.3 trillion, which is now 1,370 billion. They're tripled, that's part of it. If you look at a fund like the ABP then you're talking about the return, because that's what Geert Wilders and Henk Krol are referring to.You can see that the ABP achieved a return of 2,7% in 2015. 2016 was a top year with a return of 9.5%, and in 2017 it was 7,6%. But in 2018, the return was negative, i.e. minus 2.3%. That return is extremely uncertain. If you are going to say on that basis that more can be paid, then that is dangerous. That is why we have agreed that we always take a perspective of 50 years. We do this by using that calculation rate; that's how we arrange it. If a fund has structurally good returns................................................................................................................................................................................................. There are funds that have the buffers in order, and they are currently indexing pensions. But other funds are worse, and they can't. But if you look only at the yields, which are very fluctuating, and not at the long-term perspective of the interest rate, which unfortunately takes into account the low interest rate, you will immediately get that young people will say: I want to get rid of the obligation. Why do you make me save at my pension fund? Then the whole system is broken. So one more time, we shouldn't do that. Everything outside pensions we can do with purchasing power, and within pensions the Van Dijk motion, which Wouter Koolmees is going to carry out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u81	So the Prime Minister doesn't do anything. He comes up with a pension agreement, in which left-wing parties and the trade union movement have actually betrayed pensioners, because one still has to work until the age of 70, in the long term. And what happens after the signatures under the pension agreement? Then the pensions will be cut. It's incredible how people in the Netherlands have been fooled. The only thing I ask you, once again, is that for next year the elderly, who have already been taken to their spines and who have had to hand in hundreds of euros over the last few years, where the funds are full, despite the commitments, where long-term returns often show a big plus, you mention yourself 7%, 8%, 9%, while we are talking about a longer period of time, to give a political guarantee that those elderly people are watching a lot of television now Mark Rutte says he's not gonna let them down. Then we will see how we solve it structurally, but next year there will be no cuts, we will stand up for the elderly in the Netherlands and we will not take it in their pockets for the seventh consecutive year. If you don't, people will know what you're doing: nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u82	I am not abandoning anyone, especially the elderly in the Netherlands. But we really need to be careful with big steps, quickly at home. 'Cause then we're gonna take huge risks. If a fund realizes the returns, it can index. That is what is happening now; there are funds that are doing so. But if you were to say "you can index on the basis of what has been achieved in the past few years" while they are below the desired levels of coverage and you know that the long-term interest rate, which is calculated, is so low, then you are taking a huge risk with solidarity in the system. So we are doing everything we can outside those pensions, through all the measures we are taking to increase purchasing power. That's why they're higher than percent in the CPB transfers. In addition, the CPB of course takes with it what happens to pension funds across the border. But we cannot take over that second pillar. You see for a reason in the purchasing power figures that a retired person with only an AOW is making quite a lot of progress. A pensioner with a supplementary pension is, of course, at risk of discounts. We have said that, as far as they are unnecessary, we are going to try to prevent them by looking at them, but beware of adjusting the interest rate for a year. It's gonna drain the system. Older people have children and grandchildren, and they also want them to have a good pension right away. The people who work understand the obligation, but it depends on what we can do with each other. That's really essential, and that's what I'm standing here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u83	It is good that people at home now know that they can at least get a guarantee from Mr Wilders. They had that guarantee from me a long time ago, so I don't have to repeat it. And that guarantee can also be given, because if you look at the calculation rate, you have to find that pension funds not only invest in government bonds. The Prime Minister pretends that he is, but he is not. He looks to the future, but he must also look to the past. Then you look at the profits that pension funds have made in twenty or thirty years. If you compare them to each other, then you can see that those returns are going to stay good. You can only see tiny points behind the comma difference. So the elderly are being robbed by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u84	Except for the last sentence, Krol and I agree. I have already said that if the return is earned, it can also be used. Then a pension fund will benefit, because then the pension fund's assets will grow. If the papers are in order, they can also be indexed. But you have to be very careful. It is not for nothing that I quoted the example of the ABP to show how it fluctuates. If you decided on the basis of the short-term and not on the basis of the fifty-year perspective to eat that yield, then you really run a risk. In any case, the pension agreement has allowed the minimum own funds required to return immediately to 100% instead of the 104.4%; I thought that was the percentage. That doesn't solve this problem. That's never been suggested. It does, however, make the system more stable and thus makes it possible to reduce that minimum capital requirement to 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u85	There's nothing to eat. Every year, premiums and profits come in even more than they go out. For future generations, therefore, there really is more than enough left. This cabinet is poor. We shouldn't do that. Those old people didn't deserve that. I appeal once again: give a guarantee for one year and not short! We are in a very special economic situation. People at home are watching right now and getting scared. If you need tips, take a look at the Financial Daily today. There are many solutions that you could work on. There are solutions, but you don't even want to see them!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u86	The 50-plussers I know want a good retirement. They just want to ensure that the pension system is maintained in the long term, especially if they have children and grandchildren or nephews and nieces themselves. Mr Krol is right that the funds in the greenhouses of these pension funds have doubled. I just said that pension funds' liabilities have tripled! If you put the arithmetic rate a little higher, then you take a risk. That's in no one's best interest, 'cause you're gonna take down that whole system. I really do not understand Mr Krol. He stands for 50-plus, but he's a little bit for 50-min, isn't he? He should be for everyone. The 50-plussers who could be facing discounts immediately know that there is a cabinet here that does everything, outside the pension funds, to increase purchasing power. For example, look at the AOW and all the other things we do in taxes. They also have a cabinet in front of them that will work in the spirit of the Labour Party's motion to avoid unnecessary discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u87	I almost find it offensive. If there is one group that has the best interests with his children and grandchildren, then it is the group 50-plussers. That's what we're thinking. As long as there is still more money in the greenhouses than there is, we have a fantastic pension system, including for our children...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u88	That's not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u89	Now let me finish one sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u90	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u91	Then we also have a fantastic pension system for our children and grandchildren, the best in the world, as we established yesterday. This cabinet wants to break that down. I find that shameful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u92	But the facts don't add up, really! I say this with all due respect to Henk Krol, whom I greatly appreciate, but the facts don't add up. Not only can you say that the investment results or returns have doubled if you have to establish at the same time that the liabilities have tripled and that the returns are now at the level of 1,430 billion and the liabilities are at 1,370 billion. Then you can't say, "We're gonna potter now." You can't do that. So we have to do that wisely. And no one wants discounts. Why would a cabinet want discounts? That's not what anyone wants, is it? We are going to do everything we can to avoid unnecessary discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u93	The Prime Minister says we're going to do everything we can to prevent those discounts. So the question is right, what exactly is that, because for the time being I hear above all that he really doesn't want to do anything at all. That would mean letting Minister Koolmees do his thing, and that would mean we're heading straight for reductions on pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u94	I hear you have no faith in Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u95	Well, to be perfectly honest, I don't. Frankly, not even after your answer, because you say very clearly that there is nothing you can do. You're using big words today, too. You say you are taking a risk with solidarity. The word pottering even takes you in the mouth. While everyone here knows that's not the issue. You are taking a risk with the solidarity of what you ask of people, of pensioners, in times of fantastic economic growth. It has been mentioned before: the pension pots are overcrowded. In the new plans of this cabinet, pensioners are probably the least advanced. Last year, pensioners were the only group that got worse. Despite the nice promise made by this cabinet that everyone would benefit from economic growth, pensioners went down on it. Who, I ask the Prime Minister, is the one who is taking a risk with solidarity? If he's standing here today, doesn't want to stick out for pensioners, let Minister Koolmees go his way, and we're heading straight for discounts of millions of pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u96	I didn't say we didn't do anything. I said we should be careful to mess with the arithmetic rate. That was what my discussion with Mr Krol was about. It is pottering if you know that the obligations have tripled compared to a doubling of the returns. You gotta be careful about that. The Gijs van Dijk motion asks the cabinet to see if we can avoid unnecessary discounts. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. Koolmees has said to talk to funds and social partners to see what can be done. But the specific measure that was suggested yesterday, i.e. artificially raising the rate of calculation for a year or more, is a dangerous one. I warn against that, because it is not the case that the fat jars are ready for pension funds. Yes, they have achieved fantastic returns, but the commitments are now at almost the same level because they have tripled. That's why we have to be so careful to go down that road. So we're gonna take a serious look at what we can do. In addition, in the new Tax Plan, we have done everything that we can do outside the second pillar of the pension, the pensions we save with our employers in purchasing power, through taxes and through the AOW indexing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u97	You know what I hate the most? When it comes to pensions and future discounts, we are fleeing technology. It's complicated, it's about the accounting rate. To be very brief, therefore, exactly what the Prime Minister is saying is not true. We're not going to artificially raise the interest rate. No, what's happening now is that the arithmetic rate is artificially kept low. That is precisely the problem, and that is also the problem that increases these obligations. Yes, Prime Minister. There's nothing wrong with the returns of pension funds. They're fine. That what's in the greenhouse is fine. So what you're doing is taking a risk with solidarity. What you are doing is not giving pensioners their fair share, even though they are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u98	This is voodoo economics. Because what Mrs Marijnissen is doing is saying that the returns are high. Why are these returns high? That's because the arithmetic rate is so low. So people go into all kinds of other investments...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u99	Exactly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u100	And if you look at what these returns ultimately bring together, there is indeed a doubling of what is in the pots of those pension funds. But there is also a threefold increase in commitments. That's almost right. That's why you have to be so careful with this. It's not like we're doing nothing. We are going to see what we can do to avoid unnecessary discounts, but the discussion yesterday and therefore also today should be about the specific button of the calculation rate. I'm just warning you. I would make myself, this cabinet, and then we are going to say that Mrs Marijnissen has asked for it and we have taken it over, and we are going to make it extremely popular by saying in the coming years: we are going to take all the discounts off the table by increasing the rate of calculation. But that's unwise. In the end, we need to pursue sensible policies here, so that we can maintain the pension system in the longer term. That would damage you if you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u102	This isn't about making popular. I am very sorry that the Prime Minister is throwing it over that bow. This has nothing to do with voodoo economics. What you want is VVD economics, namely: you let pensioners pay while the pension jars are overcrowded and you can indeed do something about the calculation rate. No, it doesn't have to be artificially high, but you shouldn't leave it as low as it is now. You can intervene, you can make sure that Minister Koolmees does not turn on the reduction of millions of pensions. It would please you if you did that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u103	Why I blamed Mrs Marijnissen for having a job, let me put it a little more neutrally, because she spends the money twice. She says: I have high returns and I can now also adjust the accounting rate higher. But these high yields are to a large extent due to the fact that the interest rate is so low, because interest rates are so low. That is why the proceeds from all these other investments are also higher. If you then look at the total of the obligations, you will see that you are busy doing things in the short term that people might like. I understand that very well. I, too, would like nothing more. Why would anyone here in the Netherlands want to take away an older index? That's not what a person wants. But in the end we will have to organise it in the longer term, and that is what we are all here for, in order to make political choices in terms of scarcity, that everyone will continue to benefit. That is what we must achieve. I come to the less burdened subject of the Municipal Fund, at least I thought, but I can already see Mr Segers getting ready to... But I see Mr Asscher first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u104	I will show today, on the basis of a number of interruptions, that the problem of this cabinet is not a lack of money, but above all a lack of vision and an eye for what is now needed in society. The Prime Minister will always reply to these interruptions by saying: a pot of money is not the solution. That's variant one. Or he says: you don't tell the whole story; the cabinet already does a lot. That's variant two. That's what we're gonna hear today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u105	That is the robbery of bread, if Mr Asscher also gives the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u106	However, I think it is important to do so, because there is a political difference of opinion behind it. That's why we're here together. I think it should be different from the way the cabinet does it. So do not be deterred by the fact that the Prime Minister will repeat his answers. That doesn't make my questions any less relevant. My first question. How is it possible for the cabinet to propose to pour EUR 3.5 billion into the treasury next year, while at the same time choosing that municipalities need to cut down on the pool, on the supervision of young people, on the fight against homelessness, and that it ignores the letter from the 40 large municipalities, supported by the other municipalities? What the cabinet should do now is invest in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u107	There Mr Asscher does not in himself have a crazy point at all. This is a slightly different answer than he might have expected. That brings me to the reaction to a first-term comment by Mr Segers. We need to look very closely at what is one-off money and what is structural money. I must add that, and Mr Asscher knows that. In the end, we are going to go back to a budget deficit, so we need to look very closely at what we are doing with our surpluses. But in itself, Mr Asscher has a good point to make. The important thing is that the cabinet does not get the money spent, because, for example, we lack people in care, in defence or in education, which we will be discussing today. We would like to spend more than we do now. We see that next year public spending is far above the expenditure of all of us. Public spending is 2.9%, I say by heart, while consumer spending is 1.9% or, more generally, all people in the country are 1.9%. So it is seen that we are going to do more next year. The municipalities do not know exactly what that means; they are very affected by it. I will reply to Mr Asscher's comment on the substance immediately and take Mr Segers' question with him on this point. As public spending increases nationwide, the municipalities and the provinces go along. If the government spends less, they also go down. It's called kick-to-strap-off. You can see right now that there are unwanted effects in there. In fact, Mr Asscher also refers to this. There's an administrative agreement about how we do it now. We're gonna do two things. Firstly, we are already revisiting the whole system. We expect the results of this at the beginning of next year. Mr Asscher will say that the libraries have nothing to do with that, and of course he is quite right about that. By the way, I cannot simply remove this problem here; that is what I am saying right away. But here's what we're gonna do. The Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Finance, who are together the fund manager of the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund, will consult with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, and the IPO, the Interprovincial Consultation, to see how we can prevent these fluctuations, which they really suffer from, even if they make their budgets. I would like to warn against the following. If there is a letter from the G40 saying that the municipalities must close the pools and libraries, then I do not think that the reaction can be right away: we are going to put all the money in there now to prevent that. Then I think that we can also take the challenge back to the municipalities and ask them: okay, what exactly is the situation? And as far as the problem arises from these fluctuations, can we then find a system with each other to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u108	Indeed, I did not mention part three of the Rutte viewer, namely 'flights in technology'. When a question comes, he says: yes, but then it's about the hybrid financing of the WGA; that's different. My question was not about the system of accresces, from stair-to-strap-off. I know how that works; I was Alderman Finance at a city council. My question was: can we agree here that for next year there will be money for the municipalities, which is probably not all the money they are asking to make sure that they do not have to cut back on youth work, the library or the swimming pool? Because that cannot be explained at a time when you are proposing to put 3.5 billion in the treasury. Can we make that appointment? Then I'm not going to pin you down on the exact amount today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u109	Well, there won't be any new money. I have just admitted that Ollongren and Snel, the rulers involved, are talking to the associations of municipalities and provinces to see what you can do to prevent these fluctuations, partly because of the fact that we are not getting rid of the money, for example because of staff shortages, both before 2020 and before 2021. That's not a guarantee. I would also like to say this very clearly to Mr Asscher: I cannot give a guarantee here that nothing should happen in any of the G40 municipalities. I can assure you that we are going to have these talks to see if, as far as we are causing them by regulating these fluctuations, that is in a smarter way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u110	Those municipalities are dying to make things smarter. Who doesn't want that? Is there anyone here who doesn't want to take care of things smarter? But in my opinion, the question of these municipalities is not: could we perhaps be more intelligent in dealing with things? The question is: next year we have too little money. That is not a pity for those municipalities or those administrators; it is annoying for the inhabitants of those municipalities, who will not be able to go to the library or to the swimming pool and who live in a porch where the assistance of the neighbor falls away. So I think it's great that the ministers are going to talk to the G40. The question I am asking is: can they or do they not have money to help the municipalities in that conversation? Because they're talking about money in the end. The fact that they're doing things smarter is really good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u111	The money's there, inside the system. The G40 and all kinds of other municipalities suffer from these strange fluctuations, due to the fact that we spend less than we thought. You will see a significant increase in spending next year. The Central Planning Office has calculated that next year's public expenditure growth is 2.9%, while the average expenditure of all of us is growing by 1.9%. At last, it seems to be working. That is what the Central Planning Bureau hopes; we still have to work hard on it. You're not so sure about that either. That is why Ollongren and Snel start talking to municipalities to see what would be a way to prevent that kind of fluctuations before 2020 and 2021. Is that right, Menno? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u112	The last time before this interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yes, please. Last time at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u114	I can tell by your mimicry, and I agree with you. The Prime Minister's answer is predictable, unfortunately, although the beginning was hopeful. Finally, I would like to ask a closed question. Will Ollongren and Snel get the opportunity to offer municipalities extra money by 2020, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u115	Exactly: no extra money, no. That won't be necessary. What we do...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u116	"Money is not the solution." That's how we get back to my prophecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u117	No, wait a minute. Mr. Asscher, let me finish my answer. If Mr Asscher says with every letter that comes in, from a municipality or youth care or schools, "I'm going to make it mine right away and claim that whole amount here," then he is a very different Asscher.. I also have a package leaflet for Mr Asscher! Then the sensible Asscher from 2012 to 2017. Anyway, that's okay. I had heard him in such a way that he was still somewhat in the mind...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u118	Well, he just sat down! I thought I'd take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u119	I'm gonna finish him off, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u120	Well, this was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u121	I thought that in the spirit of the Asscher from 2012 to 2017 he would understand a little bit that you should look at these fluctuations, which arise simply because we do not get enough money spent, in one way or another smarter, so that those municipalities simply suffer less from them. That's what we're gonna look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u122	I'll publish the watchpoint for Rutte shortly, because this is another part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u123	It's a very long watcher!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u124	This is, in fact, suspicious of the intentions of your debate opponent. If you say "this is a very different Asscher than the man I've worked with so nicely," then you're actually saying that I don't really mean the question or that I find something completely different right now. He is extremely sympathetic, but it is part of the ten elements of Rutte. It means the other answers don't work anymore. Soon we'll get the strategic amnesia: "I can't remember anything about that." We get the in itself grammatically correct but otherwise absurd reasoning: "this is not a piece; it is a VVD memo." We get ridiculing the opponent, usually Jesse Klaver: "I have to think about your asshole pajamas." We're all gonna get it. But I predict that I will continue to interfere with the political difference of opinion. You have no eye for what's needed right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u125	Then let us publish each other's package leaflets. That wasn't supposed to be unsympathetic. All I want to do is to avoid being a pass-through door to any social lobby and then to leave it unavoidably here. I don't think that's real. That is what I would suggest to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u126	I always find it very interesting when Mr Asscher lets go of the debate halfway through the metabe reflections. He wants to deliver a viewer. I would say that it should also be noted in that viewer that Mr Asscher is coming up with a viewer and is reflecting on how Mr Rutte is going to react. We now know that this is also a pattern. Maybe my comment on this should be written down somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u127	It's gonna be a droopy can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u128	Let us separate ourselves from all the metabe reflections on the debate. Let us simply limit it straight forward again to the facts, the tough politics and the choices we make. I did indeed ask my question to try to make that very visual. Suppose we indeed postpone the purchase of the JSF for a year, then municipalities immediately notice that in the money they get. Do I understand the Prime Minister correctly that he says that if the cabinet sits down with the VNG and IPO, then the intention and commitment are to give much earlier, at the very beginning of the year, clarity to municipalities about what they can count on during the year, so that there are no fluctuations in funding in the middle of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u129	I'm going to put it very precisely, as I got it written down here. Mrs. Ollongren is going to listen critically if I say it wrong. In fact, Ms Ollongren and Menno Snel will go in consultation with VNG and IPO to see whether it is necessary to adopt measures for 2020 and 2021 to prevent or dampen fluctuations in the accres. Those years are also what I think the G40 referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u131	In addition, a new standard-setting system is being developed. It's been evaluated. These results will come in the spring of next year. On this basis, a different standard of funds will be developed after 2021. That's from 2022. We have an intermediate problem for 2020 and 2021 and then it becomes structural. That's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u132	I understand that if you start talking, it's even more common. But I still want it to be very specific. What are the complaints that aldermen have filed with us? They say: I simply find that we first get a signal that we can rely on it, but that we have to adjust it halfway through the year, when I am simply dealing with youth care and contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u133	They want stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u134	They want stability. Then it is not very strange to say that our goal is to clarify all the time at the beginning of the year or as early as possible for the whole year and that we simply want to keep those fluctuations out halfway through the year. It's not so crazy that that's the bet, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u135	The stake is therefore to have a system that is stable from 2022 onwards. That's the idea. Maybe this element is in there, but I'm not so expert that I can tell you if you can do this halfway through. Of course, you have the meicircular and the september circular. So you have to look at exactly where to do that, but the goal is stability. We think we have it from 2022 as regards the standardisation of the funds, but in the meantime you also have a problem for 2020 and 2021. So we are looking at whether there is an emergency link for 2020 and 2021 with measures that prevent or dampen fluctuations. Let us take your suggestion into account for the period starting from 2022, but I cannot entirely judge whether it is wise to do so halfway through the year. I think you want to go to a system that is stable at all and less sensitive to what we spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u136	I think we are talking about the same thing, namely that that is indeed the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u137	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u138	Whether it works or how it works, we all have to look at it, but then I can tell that that is the stake. That is the clarity we can offer congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u140	That was indeed Mr Asscher's question: will there be more money next year? I'd love more money, but it's gonna stop somewhere halfway. But the commitment is to create much more peace in the longer term, so that all those aldermen have less concern about what might happen halfway through a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u142	It is very good when politics deals with the long term, but the short term must not be overlooked when it comes to things that we all do not want to do, namely to close down the swimming pool, the neighborhood house and the library. Actually, the problem with the municipalities is the current budget for 2019. We can actually see that next year there will be a lot of money and so will the years after that. Isn't there a smart way to look at this? I would prefer to have extra money, but if we can't, can we see if we can move money forward in the years ahead, so that we can prevent all kinds of facilities from being closed down? I think we should look at how we adapt the system, but we are all afraid that we are tinkering with a new system, while libraries, which people use, are about to close down. That's what we want to solve with each other. Whether that's extra money or money from the future that we're putting forward something, that's technique that I don't think anyone's looking for. If we can agree to make sure we close that hole, I think we're a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u143	I understand that this idea is also part of the emergency meeting that will take place before 2020 and 2021. Yes, that's the case. But let's not give the viewers at home the impression that if a municipality has said that it has to close a library, it's not going to happen now. I do not want to give that impression here either, because that is ultimately a municipal decision. But as far as this has to do with those fluctuations, we're trying to make this part of those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u144	If a municipality decides to close a library or a swimming pool because it feels that it is no longer appropriate to what the municipality is doing, that is fine, but that should not be the result of an ill-thought-out way in which we have set up a system. It must not be a system error, but I understand the Prime Minister very well: this autumn we will see how we can use money for the years after that. I assume that this will also be done in the course of the Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u145	We'll try it at the Financial Reviews. But Mr Snel looks with a glance that says he is not going to guarantee that. But we're trying. It seems a little too soon, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u146	I'm looking at Mr. Snels and I think we're going to put it in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u147	Yes, Mr. Snels is of course even faster than Fast. But it's... We'll see how far we can get. Yeah, and there's Faster too. Faster, faster, faster... But I'm already very happy with Snel. Mr. Chairman. A question was asked about a robust economy and how it relates to our ecological boundaries and environmental boundaries. It is quite clear that a robust economy moves within the ecological limits and environmental limits, that it functions within them. That is, of course, why we are pursuing a very ambitious climate and environmental policy and looking for solutions to issues such as nitrogen emissions. The question was actually asked by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, but I see that the atmosphere is not so bad... Mrs Thieme takes over the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u148	Don't stoke! You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u149	I asked a question about the investment agenda...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u150	Yes. That's what I'm getting at!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u151	... with the broad framework. Yes. Precisely because you are talking about how we can achieve a robust economy within the ecological boundaries. The cabinet now wants to invest heavily with an investment fund. I asked: can you also develop test criteria which show that if we make these investments, we will remain within the limits of what the earth can handle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u152	Let me say to that that we are involved in drawing up our growth agenda that we are going to work on. So that element is taken as a building block. I'm not gonna promise that we're gonna do it. So my suggestion is that Mr Wiebes, who comes on behalf of the cabinet in the third quarter with a number of views on where growth lies and how to deal with it, should take this into account. But I'm not gonna promise right now, because I really can't see it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u153	I do not think this answer is sufficient. The cabinet says it's going for a robust economy. In my contribution I have clearly indicated that the climate is seen as a problem, as something that keeps buzzing in your ear and thinking: "What am I supposed to do with it? Hey, I want it to go away!" I think that the cabinet really has to make sure that everything it does looks again and again at the consequences for the climate and for ecology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u154	Sure. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u155	And if we already read in the Millions Note that making choices is primarily about increasing earning power, then I think the cabinet is already on the wrong track and therefore does not think inclusively about how we can achieve robust economic development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u156	That is, of course, what we want. We want to see a robust economic development. This also means: within the ecological limits and environmental limits. So that's what we're agreed on. But I understood Mrs Thieme in such a way that she said: I want a separate review framework or an instrument for this. Of this I say: give Wiebes a chance to work out the piece and then show us how we also consider that aspect. But that fits within a robust economy. Otherwise, we're not doing it right. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u157	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u158	And I apologize for my inappropriate joke. I shouldn't have done that. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say a few things about that fund. We want to do a few things. We want to create good conditions for the long-term growth potential of the Netherlands. Then you talk about how our institutions function, about how the government itself works and about a good business environment. Those are the things the cabinet has to do anyway. And also: how do we ensure that business can continue to be that job machine in the future? In addition, the government can also strengthen earning capacity through public investment. They can then directly take advantage of productivity growth. These investments can be made from the regular budget. But in practice you can see that this regular budget is very consumer-oriented. As I said, health expenditure and expenditure on social security are very large budget lines, which are certainly true for the health budget, and often also have strong growth rates. Then you have to be careful not to pay very much attention to this very important budget, and nobody will deny that our health care is very important, and that there is therefore too little room for things that are more related to the long-term earning capacity of our economy. We're not just doing that by working this out now. We are also doing it, as I said earlier, with the pension agreement and the Climate Agreement, all of which are also intended to ensure, for the long term, that we strengthen earning capacity. That is why we have said: later this year we will come up with a piece on this. In this section, we address the questions of where the earning opportunities are and what the investments in that earning capacity are. I see that Mr Asscher wishes to intervene, but I would like to conclude this whole point; then I will answer the questions. Mr Dijkhoff said that he also wants to have a vision of this earning capacity. Mr Klaver said that he also wants to talk about social return. Mr Heerma warned, I think rightly, about mission creep. We are all going to involve these elements. For example, we want to avoid public investment at the expense of private investment. We also want to make sure that what we are doing here is consistent with what is already happening with all other means. Think for example of Invest-NL, but also of other funds that the government already has at its disposal. So that's also that element of preventing mission creep. These are therefore non-regular and non-structural investments which have social added value and which contribute substantially to strengthening the earning capacity of the Netherlands. Yes, so it is about social return, I say to those who have noticed. But in itself, only measuring that social return is insufficient. This also includes the fact that the social return should contribute to the earning capacity of the Netherlands. And that means that when it comes to decision-making, it is extremely important that there is a lock, a decision-making street, which we are going to develop with objective criteria, so that you can assess those projects very closely. We will also involve external expertise and learn from what has been good or not good in the past. Think, for example, of the Economic Structural Fund and the lessons that we can draw from it. Finally, Mr President, the funds. In response to Mr Jetten, I would like to say once again that this is something that begins now and not just in a few years' time. So we're getting started as soon as we can. By now, I don't mean the next few weeks. You'll soon be at the end of the year, beginning next year. It is about long-term earning capacity, but 2020 is fast and needs to be taken into account. We really want to try to invest several billions in the short term, but that is on the condition that we have found the right projects at that time. That is what we are going to work out in the coming months, also where it is a broad agenda to strengthen the long-term sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands. We are looking at both the financial side and the non-financial side. We will not only try to promote public investment, but we will also try to detach private investment. In addition, the two directors of Finance and Economic Affairs concerned will inform you more about the investment fund by the beginning of next year at the latest. Of course, it's always the question of how much there is in the end. We have said, looking through the hairs of our eyes, that in the long term this could amount to a few tens of billions. I really want to leave it at that, because the most important thing now is that we do not have a fund looking for projects, but that we first define the type of investment that we want to do with it, so that we are then able to spend the money properly. Finally, Mr President, I can imagine that there are a lot of questions about how exactly we are going to do that. I refer to the package leaflet, if I may put it that way. We're really gonna work that out. To a great many of what will be said today, I will therefore respond with: that is what we are involved in the elaboration. But if I can, of course, I will answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u159	Before I allow the interruptions, it might be useful to give some indication of the issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u160	Of the ten subjects, this is the first: the economy and the investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yeah, I got them right here in front of me, but not everyone knows that. Then the MPs will know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u162	It is also one of the biggest issues, I must say. Here comes purchasing power, and then we have already done a lot, because we have also talked about pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u163	Okay. And the interruptions must be really short and not be initiated with long reflections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u164	Last Monday, the Minister for Economic Affairs informed us in his infinite wisdom that teachers do not contribute to the earning capacity. I have the next question to the Prime Minister. Can he get one...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u165	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u166	I'll wait, because his order's being passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u167	That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u168	I get it. Are you going to stir too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yeah, but I can do that while I'm listening! Or would you like to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u170	I think it's a self-confident picture, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u171	Yeah, it's important, coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u172	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u173	I've been all over it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u174	The Minister for Economic Affairs has informed us that the teachers do not contribute to our earning capacity. I would like to put the question differently, because there is a broad growth agenda coming up. We are going to look at the issues that will be covered and the conditions that will apply to these tens of billions. Can the Prime Minister give me a better investment in our future, a better subject to invest your money for our earning ability and our prosperity than education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u175	Well, I don't, and I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u177	... that Wiebes agrees with that. But the point is, of course, that we are dealing here with non-regular and non-structural investments, whereas our teachers need to be financed primarily from our regular budget. That makes sense. We have an education budget of over 40 billion and it has to be paid for. And it's structural and not incidental. This is, of course, different from an investment fund, because from that you will not in principle finance teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u178	But we'll figure it out. The same Minister for Economic Affairs has told us that he could easily spend 26 billion on earning power, so that does not have to be structural. We can cut it up in pairs of salaries for the people who do that job. Because the investment in the teacher is at least as important as the investment in the digital board or what may be covered by the Wopke-Wiebefonds. If you acknowledge that there is no better subject to invest in than education, let us do business today. So don't delay and no broad agenda, no letters and no talk about criteria, but money for education, now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u179	We're about to talk about education. But in the context of the discussion on the investment fund, I say that it is not the intention to finance teachers' salaries from it. We pay them out of the normal education budget. Mr Asscher's question is how important young people, children and therefore teachers are. Well, we don't have to convince each other that these are crucial for the future of the country. He was right yesterday to paint the picture of the bridge peeper with the backpack. That, of course, appealed to me very much, because it is important for the whole country. We are now talking very specifically about the subject of this fund and you are talking much more about knowledge development, innovation and infrastructure, about things that are not regular and structural. I heard very well what Mr Asscher said yesterday about education. We will be discussing this separately in a moment. I would not like to do that under this fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u180	However, I urge this cabinet not to surrender to discussions about who will come up with a plan and to write broad letters when the future is at our door and asks for money for education. I don't mind you compartmentalizing it and saying we're gonna talk about education later. For our future, for our earning ability or whatever you want to call it, this is essential. This can't delay many.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u181	All of you! I think we're in agreement. To put it very strictly, it was not intended to finance teachers' salaries out of their growth potential and fund thinking. They must be financed from the ordinary budget, and Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and many others have said a number of things. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u182	I do not really know who was first, Mr Segers or Mr Jetten. How are we gonna fix this? Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u183	I would like to talk about the Joseph Fund, as I call it. For the less Bible fasting: Joseph was the viceroy of Egypt who very wisely saved first for worse times and then went on to invest. I have two specific questions about the fund. Unlike Mr Asscher, I think it is wise to take this step by step and think first about what is a good, green and sustainable economy and how we can grow. We do need to think about that before we invest billions. I do have two specific questions. The Prime Minister replied in the affirmative to Mr Asscher's question about the importance of education. If education is important, does it apply to all young people? Does that apply not only to the Delft students, as I call them, but also to the MBOs? Does that apply to all young people who have talents? Or does that only apply to part of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u184	I have to ask exactly what Mr Segers means here. If he asks whether it is possible to exclude projects which are not regular or structural and which do not belong in the education budget, but which affect this type or groups of young people, I say: that is possible! It may well be that this is part of knowledge development. I hurry and force myself not to come up with examples, because these are all n=1 examples. That is dangerous, because the government usually chooses the wrong projects. That's why such a decision lock in which you look very carefully with expertise at which projects you are going to do is so important. If that's how I understand it, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u185	I would like to say that we need not only the Delft engineer, but also the young people of the Leiden instrument makers School for the economy of the future. We need them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u186	The golden hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u187	Exactly. The good-looking heads and the golden hands: we need them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u188	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u189	That's my first cry for hearts. Thank you for the affirmative answer. My second question concerns the major challenges we are facing. We are talking about climate, energy, living and mobility. Is the cabinet prepared to look at all these challenges in conjunction with the agenda under this fund when developing that agenda? I have mentioned four of them. I ask the cabinet not to put walls in there, but to look at this in conjunction and see how that can be done. If we invest, this must be done in this broad context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u190	Yes. That's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u191	Thank you for that. We're gonna talk about that. We're gonna talk about that. This is an important answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u192	Oh, yeah, this is all coming back. Like I said, I find these logical building blocks for the piece we come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u193	I shall continue with Mr Asscher's point. We already read a piece of the Throne speech in Het Financieele Dagblad on Monday. On the question of what should be the key points of a growth agenda, I was pleased to hear the answer from the Minister of Economic Affairs: "Education is one of my favourites'. That's a very nice favorite. Then he said, "And then I don't talk about higher wages for teachers, because that doesn't lead to a higher earning capacity for society." I understand that Mr Rutte just said in reply to Mr Asscher: I cannot pay teachers' salaries from an investment fund. I totally agree with the Prime Minister. But does the Prime Minister want to distance himself from the statement that teachers do not contribute to the earning capacity of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u194	Then where does Wiebes say that in that sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u195	That's the impact this interview or this quote has on all those people...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u196	If that's the impact, then I'm gonna distance myself from it, but he didn't mean to. I hear he's getting away from that himself. What he's saying is this. Raising teacher salaries is a very relevant discussion. Of course, we fed them as well. You can see the teacher's salaries in the p.o. have risen considerably. There is now a discussion on the collective agreement. I'll talk about it later. I think he's saying that you shouldn't be funding teachers' salary increases from such a fund. You really need to look at non-regular, non-structural investments here. I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u197	I agree you don't finance wages from funds. But the quote is real: I don't talk about higher wages for teachers, because that doesn't lead to a higher earning ability. Look at the OECD. Look at other countries. They show that wages do indeed contribute to the quality of education and thus to the earning capacity. I just want that said here. Such statements do not help all those people who work every day in education to teach our children the skills with which they can also take a role in that new economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u198	The way I read it, very precisely, Wiebes wanted to say that, but you should not use such a fund for it. That's the point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u199	Then I'm glad we cleared that up. Then I would like to look at the practical implementation of this fund. The cabinet writes in the Millions Note that, in addition to sustainable innovation, knowledge development, research & development and innovation are the key points. I fully support that. Can the Prime Minister outline a little more about how parties in the Netherlands can see that for themselves? Can an MBO and a technical university, for example, which together with a company from the region have a good plan for earning wealth in that region, make a joint proposal to the cabinet to get investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u200	That's exactly the point I just made. I saw Mr. Klaver look a little suspicious when I used the term "tight lock," so I'm gonna scrap it again. I mean that you have to have a decision-making procedure which means that all kinds of ideas that arise are tested very well. In business, however, there is talk of an innovation funnel. You put ideas in it and then you look at whether they eventually come out on the other side and you can use them. You have to be very tight in that, because you have to stop lobbies and hobbyism from getting away with the money. You have to be sure that they are projects that are non-regular and non-structured and really contribute to the earning capacity. I think the answer to Mr Jetten's question is yes. We can submit this, but we must ensure that there is a decision-making procedure which is very strict and rigorous in order to avoid that it is not actually regular expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u201	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u202	Finally. I think it is right to set up a good decision-making mechanism for this, but above all we must challenge the business community, educational institutions and knowledge institutions to come up with the proposals themselves on how they want to take artificial intelligence, biotechnology and so on to a higher level. Then I also have a warning for the cabinet. Be careful that this is not going to be a debate for many years, because there are already plenty of plans and ideas. I really hope that at the end of this year, beginning next year, we can look forward to the first investments of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u203	Such a decision-making process must be swift. I agree with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u204	Mr Segers just spoke of a Joseph Fund. Then my sympathy starts to grow, because that is what I associate with being well prepared for the future. I hear critical sounds again. In Joseph's case, it was corn that was gathered together. Then you would say: is it not a question of consumer spending rather than investment in the future? I have another concern. Couldn't it also be a tower of Babel Fund? Then you rig prestige objects with a lot of bureaucracy and talk along each other for a long time, when it actually does too little in the concrete economy of every day. How is that prevented? How is the entrepreneur involved in this type of project? Does the fund that is about to come have anything to offer the ordinary entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u205	Joseph und seine Brüder is one of Thomas Mann's most beautiful books. We can learn a lot from that, also for this problem. I think it is important that we avoid building a tower of Babel. We don't want that. We want to keep it as simple as possible, but it must be rigorous. It's about big money. We can take that out of the market now, even with negative interest rates at the moment. But it has to be repaid someday, so it has to be rigorous. It's gotta be right. It's gotta be firm. It's gotta be lobby proof. If someone from civil society is suggesting "Schiphol in the sea," then you have to be sure that such an idea goes through a decision-making machine that at the end determines whether it can or can't, or that it gets something, and not because you think: that's a relevant lobby organisation, let's just do it. So it has to be really rigorous. I'm not saying it's a bad plan or a good one, because I don't know at all, but the decision-making process has to be incredibly sharp because otherwise you're gonna waste money. So that means you can't say in advance that companies don't have access to it either, because that would be crazy. Jetten's suggestion that companies and SMEs should be able to submit plans together with, for example, MBO institutions or universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u206	My question was whether ordinary entrepreneurs are also involved in this, including in the reflection and design of these plans so that you can just see if we are on the right track. Or do we ultimately say: yes, it has become a goal in itself to create a fund? Is that really the right way to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u207	Yes. We will also check with that group whether what we come up with works. Alone, that's where we have to be careful. If you're gonna put down the meat jars to stay in biblical terms, then everyone's drooling up in the mouth corners and thinking: ha, delicious. So it's so important that you frame it. Of course, that's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u208	I have another question about the robust economy. The Prime Minister would like to compare the Netherlands with other countries in Europe if things were to go well. If you look at flex workers, you can see that in the last fifteen years there has been an increase in the Netherlands from 856,000 flex workers to over 2 million flex workers. Compared to other EU countries, we are now in the top three and if you look at the increase, the Netherlands is on one. How can the Prime Minister call the economy robust if, apart from the ecological boundaries that we are colliding with and the sensitivity of the Dutch economy to a next crisis, we have so many flex workers in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u209	That is a very relevant question. Even if you look at the discussion yesterday about the functioning of our labour market, that is of course also part of a society that is as balanced as possible. Perhaps I should also take into account the question raised yesterday by Mr Jetten as to what is the situation between self-employed and employees. At present, the number of self-employed people has grown considerably. At the same time, we know that a lot of people who are in that position are okay with that, are having a good time and want to do so. We're trying to find a balance in that whole labour market. That is why the cabinet also set up the Borstlap Committee. It looks at the question of how to make the labour market future-proof. We have already made decisions on how to deal with self-determination and from what level of income that can apply. What is the minimum rate? We are working on the cabinet at the bottom of a minimum rate of €16. That, too, is currently under investigation at the Borstlap Committee. We have taken a number of measures in this budget specifically aimed at the self-employed deduction. On this point, I would like to reply to Mr Jetten that the self-employed will be compensated for 2020 and 2021, and for the most part for 2022, and that the proceeds of this, even in the course of 2029, will continue to be reserved for that target group. Now back to Mrs Van Kooten: this must be part of it. But let's avoid saying that self-employed people are a problem. Only, if it is not voluntary or more or less forced by circumstances, then we try to take action. That is, moreover, part of the question I would like to make in response to her question about the working poor, which is part of our whole approach to this problem. That's an incredibly tough problem you can't solve with a quick fix. I would point out what we are doing with the Labour Market Act in balance and with the minimum rate for the self-employed, in which the Borstlap Committee will also look further at it. In this way, we are addressing a number of problems at the bottom of the labour market. But there's got to be more. I agree with her. That is indeed part of a robust economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u210	I'm glad the Prime Minister wants to take so many measures. I hope it works, too. As the Prime Minister knows, yesterday the Council of State heard the alarm bells about those working poor people, including flex workers and, therefore, part-time workers, of which, unfortunately, a large proportion are women. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will really take concrete measures to ensure that flex workers andzzp'ers survive the next crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u211	That's our goal. We are taking action and we are also looking at the Borstlap Committee. We now book 600 million structuralally in the construction to 2029 to keep this available to that target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u212	Let's get back to the fund. I was very excited about it, but I'm starting to get a little worried. I see the historian Mark Rutte standing there, who jumps up when it comes to the Joseph Fund, who starts quoting ferociously from Thomas Mann. Soon he'll be singing classic arias here, but when it comes to such a fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u213	You don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u214	Well, who knows? But when it comes to such a fund, we try not to see how it went in the past, but then we try, as it were, to predict the future. And that's really impossible. When I hear about decision-making and innovation, I am very concerned. If the government's gonna make investments the way we always do, I'll know where it's gonna end up. Because then we're gonna do things we know for sure they're gonna work. The interesting thing about this fund should be that we dare to invest in technologies that we do not yet know for sure what the future looks like, and that we dare to take risks. I hope, therefore, that the Prime Minister means that we are going to set up a fund for innovations in which the market is indeed not doing its job, but in which we, as a government, say that this is a technology we believe in, we are going to invest in. For example, green hydrogen. We must therefore be honest with the rest of the Netherlands about how it can fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u215	All yes, but I'll take that example out, because before you know it, the conclusion is: we're going to do green hydrogen. That's gotta be by... We are going to look for a term, because 'funnel' and 'decision lock' do not strike me as appropriate either, when I taste them on the tongue and look at Mr Klaver's face when I speak them out. So we are going to come up with smarter terms for that, but it must be a rigorous decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u216	It came out very smoothly. You'd already made it your own. I am not really concerned with the example I am referring to, but I am concerned about the fact that as a government we have the courage to make choices. So far, we have also said, for example, throughout climate policy, that all investments we make in innovation must be technology-independent. But if you really want to invest focused, as a government, you also have to dare to make choices where you do and where you don't. Otherwise, you will continue to invest widely and not get the in-depth investments needed to secure the future of our economy. So I really hope that this will be a solid political debate in which we make substantive choices and I also hope that we are honest with the Netherlands that it is very risky what we are going to do and that this can fail. But if it works and something works, we change the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u217	Yeah, once. Then I come to the point made by Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u218	A word about the fund, perhaps along with the next block, about purchasing power, which you are about to start with. I do not understand why the cabinet is going to come up with a fund for so-called sustainable investment. I understand from the Prime Minister that there are tens of billions in it and that the cabinet does not start investing in people's purchasing power. How is that possible after people have paid for the crisis for years? We have seen that there has been 10% economic growth in recent years and that people have not or hardly benefited from it. We have seen that all the Prime Minister's promises about purchasing power in recent years have proved false, that they have always been less than he had promised. We saw him say here in the Chamber two years ago, at the beginning of his cabinet, that people will be making a lot of progress. Now he's coming up with a $3 billion relief for the citizens. The beneficiaries get a percentage, the elderly get one percent, but if pensions are cut, as I understand it, they go down sharply, and the workers get 2%, one percent from the cabinet and one percent from wages. Why stop tens of billions in sustainable investment? I understand that that's occasional money, but why isn't that money used to relieve people's burdens? I find it so strange: the people have paid for the crisis, the Prime Minister has promised that they will get money back and then we will give 3 billion to the citizens and tens of billions to investment, while people are still waiting when they get money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u219	First of all, Wilders is, of course, quite right on one point, and that is that this purchasing power has increased less in the last few years than was foreseen in the transfer of the Central Planning Office. In 2016, this increase in purchasing power was very significant when we did a very substantial reduction in the burden, but in 2017 and 2018 we have to wait and see for this year it is simply disappointing. He's absolutely right about that. If you analyse that, it has to do with the combination of what we are doing to reduce costs and what wages and inflation are doing. That load relief didn't break through in that mix. For next year, there will be a substantial reduction in the figures. Even if inflation and wages were disappointing, you can assume, you can rely on it, that it is indeed palpable. No promise. I have never made a promise about this before, except for one point, that €1,000, but I come to that in response to a question yesterday. I have not done so specifically about these purchasing power figures. For next year we want to achieve these additional purchasing power effects by reducing the burden. If you look at what the cabinet is doing over the entire period, you will see, even if you take all the things from the previous cabinets, that the burden on citizens is falling by more than 4 billion. I would add that the burden on companies is increasing by 5 billion; that is a price that we are deciding on here too. The companies are going to pay 5 billion more if you take everything with you, so what happened before this cabinet, what this cabinet is doing in the government agreement and what we're doing in the Millions Note for next year. For the companies you see an increase of over 5 billion and for the people in the country a drop of 4 billion. The government policy itself leads to a reduction of 10 billion. Once again, there was a policy before, the famous basic path that we always talk about, but if you lose everything in it, then there is a burden relief of more than 4 billion for the people. These are very significant figures. Finally, I say you have to do it all. You must also reduce the burden if it can and invest in the quality of our education, our care and our police as well as think about climate, pension and earning ability. Where are we in the longer term? You have to do it all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u220	A lot of technique, but no answer. It was really this Prime Minister who was here two years ago, it was October; we had this debate a month later because it fell together must the government statement; I said the Acts to me: the people will make a lot of progress, they will make a lot of profit from economic growth. The people who paid for the crisis -- those were his words -- they're going to notice that with a line under the word "fors." I remember asking the Prime Minister about that at the time. But people haven't noticed. They did get less last year than you promised. They got less the year before than you promised. They're really getting crumbs now. You can call it a lot of money, but they're crumbs. It's a few tens after people I know how much money was taken. And now you're saying we're going to spend tens of billions on sustainable investment. People at home belong to that: tens of billions. Last year we had a surplus of 12 billion. We have a surplus of 10 billion this year. We have a surplus of 3 billion next year. If you put all those surpluses of your period together with those tens of billions of that fund, you have 50, 60 billion euros. That does not go to the citizens, it did not go to the citizens. And you give crumbs of 3 billion. My question to you is: stop that fund, do it later, but give that money you were planning to give to the fund, to the people at home. With tens of billions you can eliminate the entire VAT on groceries for a few years. Then people can breathe, then people can go shopping at the Lidl, at the Albert Heijn, at the Dirck, at which store, without having to pay VAT on their groceries. You can do that. A lot of ordinary people can finally take advantage of that. Not investing sustainably, but keeping your promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u221	I hear very well what Wilders says, and I want both; but I want to be very precise. You can see that over this entire cabinet period, people's burdens fall by 10 billion. If you incorporate what was still going through previous Cabinets because we came out of a crisis, there will be a net relief of over 4 billion. For next year there will be a very substantial additional burden relief in the books. That's structural money, every year. That's what you see in what people end up with in the wallet next year. In addition, you must continue to invest in the long term. That's not structural money; that's billions you have once. Perhaps then I can immediately take the point of what Mr Wilders suggested yesterday about ABN AMRO. He wanted to help me. Of course, in 2016 I apologized for my promise about that €1,000. That was a mistake. He now wants to try to get me to honour that promise by giving the rest of ABN AMRO to the citizen. That would be a one-time thing. That would be one-time €1,000. I would then, quite rightly, see Mr Wilders standing here next year saying: you promised it structurally. So that is not a sensible solution to a mistake I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u222	People would be delighted with €1,000 once! What are you saying? If people are allowed to choose between €1,000 one time or not... don't do it"? You think people at home are gonna say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u223	Of course they don't say that! They say, "Well, great!" Too bad you don't do it structuralally, okay, but still a nice guy, Rutte, because he at least gives back the $1,000!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u224	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Daar heeft-ie een punt, daar heeft-ie een punt.]] I'm gonna think about it again. But I do think that I would meet Mr Wilders here, a year later, with 'you would do it structuralally, and you didn't do it'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u225	Mr Wilders' question does touch on a very important point. It is vulnerable to scattering tens of billions here, on which decision-making is yet to come and of which we do not yet know what we are spending them on, while there is also the story of purchasing power, with all ifs and buts. The Nibud has calculated that a few with AOW and €7,500 supplementary pension will improve €6. Six euros. No matter which supermarket you choose, Mr. Wilders just gave you the whole menu. You won't get far with it. The €6 is then if pensions are not reduced, says Nibud. So that threat is still on top of it. Does the Prime Minister understand that when you say that we're going to put tens of billions in a fund, we're going to throw 3.5 billion in the treasury this year as far as I'm concerned, and oh, we have 10 billion left this year? Does Mr Rutte understand that this does not seem fair to people who can no longer work at all, as Dijkhoff suggested yesterday, but who need that money very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u226	That is why it was good to discuss this here and to say very precisely what the different things are. We all have to do it. So I say to the people in the country who are looking: now that things are getting better with the Netherlands, now that we are coming out of the crisis, it is right that we are trying to have that in what we are left in the wallet, in our salaries, so after taxes and other investments we are doing, too. We haven't been able to do that in the last few years. The last time it was really palpable was in 2016, the cabinet that Asscher and I were in together. At that time we also had a very heavy load relief. It was, as it were, knocked through other economic developments. Then you see that the figures, including those of the Central Planning Bureau, show that in the end, also the realization afterwards. In '17 and '18 this simply failed due to higher inflation and lower wage developments. For next year there will be a substantial additional load relief, which is directly palpable in the wallet of people. This means, on balance, that this cabinet reduces the burden for the people by 10 billion. If you look at all the burdens that people have experienced in recent years as a result of the crisis, you will see that there is a net relief of over 4 billion. This increase in costs is thus finally out of the figures. I think that's good news. That's one side. The other side is the long-term earning capacity. That is not structural money; it is occasional money. After all, you also have to ensure that people have a long-term job again. That is why pension reform and a climate plan, but also: the earning power of the Netherlands. It has to be done both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u227	My question was another one. I said: is it just that if you scatter billions in unknown directions, on balance for the elderly couple with a small supplementary pension, people who have worked as hard as anyone else will be left with an extra €6 per month, if it's going to be okay and if it isn't cut? Let me put the question differently: are you prepared to look at whether we can distribute it more fairly today? This can be done in all kinds of ways, by focusing more money on the low-income elderly, which can be shifted by a slightly smaller surplus, but we must do something about it. I don't really think it's fair, with all that jubilation with the briefcase, when the elderly with low incomes get off so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u228	What you see is that older people with only AOW have a significant increase in purchasing power compared to workers, because those are the things we can do. The AOW is indexed and benefit from the reduction of all kinds of tax rates and the increase in the tax rebate. In particular, when it comes to the elderly with a pension, there is an immediate problem. With the slightly higher pensions you can also immediately see the purchasing power figures getting worse...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me come back to the previous discussion: we simply see that pension funds need to be cut in a number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u229	The Nibud has calculated it without any pension discounts, and then you still come to this poor amount. With a pension discount, they're gonna go down a lot. My question was not about the difficult pension discount, but about the non-fair distribution. You can decide to help the middle groups, which I'm very much in favour of. That's essential. But also pay attention to the people in the Netherlands with a lower income, who have felt the crisis years at least as much as the middle groups. Those elderly people with only AOW and a small supplementary pension have had huge ticks. We can do something about that now, because the money is there. I would like to make a plea, and I hope you will take a look at it, because I am not in this Chamber alone in order to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u230	However, my point of view would be that, if you look at what the cabinet is doing, even for those with lower incomes, the higher care allowance, the much more gradual phasing out of the rent allowance, the reduction of the tax discs and the full indexing of the AOW pension scheme and where we rightly talk about the middle groups, you will also see that this cabinet is trying to get the people on a smaller stock market to benefit as much as possible. What you do see in the purchasing power figures, of course, is that there are also the people with benefits. They benefit a little less, but it is also consciously government policy that you, of course, also increase purchasing power there, which is somewhat larger for people on a small salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u231	This is a crucial point. The Prime Minister states that large companies will have to pay more wages, while the government will have to ensure that it reaches citizens. What really surprises me is that in the budget as it stands, which indicates how the money is being distributed, a starting police officer is improving €200 a year, and a top official or MPs €2,000 a year. What is the justification for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u232	This is the effect of a progressive tax system, in which, of course, a percentage of income is ultimately taxed. So if someone has a higher salary, that means an increase in taxes. But with a lower salary, that means a drop in taxes. What we are trying to do is try to keep it balanced. We are now working towards a system in which, for example, the first two disks are folded together. But of course, if you earn more, the percentage is higher for a tax reduction. But that doesn't differ. When you look at the whole, you see that the highest groups retain the nod that has come out in the formation, while it is the middle groups that benefit more than the highest category.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u233	It's pretended to be a law of nature, but it's just a choice you spend money on as a cabinet. But my question is what the justification is. If we know who paid the real price in the crisis, it's the dentist, the police officer, the teacher. If you, as a cabinet, choose to make people over a tonne so much better, then I say: that does not happen automatically, the cabinet has chosen to spend money on it. Why? There's nothing in there that would be fair. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u234	Our tax system has no top rate that applies to an income above €60,000, €70,000. We don't have that, and that's a choice we made in the past. What this cabinet doesn't choose is leveling, so you say we're going to charge the top extra to return it to the bottom. What we choose is, now that a reduction in charges is possible, that is not leveling, but focusing on targeting middle groups, which is also reflected in the purchasing power picture, which is that the highest category also grows, but in percentage just a little less than the middle groups. I think that's fair, too. I have always said, also driven from my own party, that we are not in favour of leveling, but we are in favour of spending as much money as possible on burden relief to the group that earns somewhere between €25,000 and €70,000 to €80,000, so that broad middle group in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u235	I was talking yesterday about patterns that we could fall into. I didn't talk about leveling for a second. That's what the Prime Minister is talking about; it seems almost traumatic when he talks about it. My point is not that people with higher incomes should go backwards. The Netherlands is doing well. As far as I'm concerned, we don't need anything extra... they don't have to go backwards. But if you have money to distribute, you say that you are going to let the Netherlands benefit from the crisis and you make the political choice that the Prime Minister makes to add a starting police officer €200 a year and a top official or MPs like us €2,000 a year, then there is no justification for that. That's a choice you're making. It's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u236	The effect of burden relief in our two-disc progressive tax system is that the number of targets to influence this is limited. It is indeed an intervention in the tax system if you say you want a top rate from €80,000, €90,000 or €100,000. That's the only instrument you'd have for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u237	Finally, yes? Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u238	This is bullshit. The Prime Minister knows that we have more than just tariffs. He knows that our entire tax system consists of all kinds of deductions and that it is much more complicated. He's acting like there's no such opportunity, but that's bullshit. If that is the problem, so a lack of knowledge of the technique or lack of creativity, then we are only a little prepared to come up with alternatives. Do not pretend that this is a result of how our tax system works. You could have made other choices. You didn't do that. It's possible. You are the Prime Minister of the Netherlands and you are VVD leader, so you can make other choices. Don't act like it's technology, because that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u239	However, I would like to take away the impression that this cabinet is favouring a certain category of income at the top. We don't. Once again, over the entire cabinet period, the burden relief for citizens is now up to 10 billion. We are finally running out of burdens from the last crisis. This ultimately leads to a net relief of over 4 billion. We're doing a lot of extra next year. We are very conscious and very focused on what I call the 'wide middle', not the political centre in this case, but the broad middle income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u240	The Prime Minister himself referred to the past few years in which the cabinet has always promised that everyone would benefit from economic growth, but in the end it turned out to be disappointing. Last week figures from the CBS showed that half of the Netherlands had not improved. Now the Prime Minister has called on the business community and said that wages should be raised. That profession is right, because the benefits to shareholders are huge, but people's wages are left behind. However, my question is specific: what is the Prime Minister himself going to do to prevent us from ending up in the situation we have been in over the past few years, and so he had to say: we have done a great deal, but unfortunately, wage growth is lagging behind and that is why we have all not improved on it. How's he gonna make sure people get their fair share? Is he willing, for example, to invest more in the salaries of our caregivers, our agents, our teachers? Is he willing, for example, to raise the minimum wage? Is he really going to do something concrete himself to raise wages?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u241	At the moment you can see that the wage development of the public sector is very decent with the overall picture and rather something above it than below. I have made a point of the very large companies in the Netherlands, of which the top men and a single woman, but most of the time it is a man, have a raise of above 10%. I have made a point of this party's policy. If you look at the general development of the public sector and compare it with what is happening widely in the market sector, you can see that it is quite balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u242	This is not the beginning of an answer to my question. It is well known that you appealed to the business community and you repeated those words in the Chamber when I stood there and you were in that place. That's fine, but my question was what you're going to do to make sure those wages go up. And I made you the proposal to choose to invest more in salaries in the public sector. You could also choose to raise the minimum wage to raise that soil. I therefore ask once again what the Prime Minister, apart from his appeal to the business community, is going to do in concrete terms to increase people's wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u243	The social minimum in the Netherlands is one of the highest in the world. Wage increases in the public sectors are linked to what is happening wider, including in the business sectors. So I think that's decent. There is no reason to suddenly put a lot of extra money into that. These are decent wage developments, which are in line with whatever happens in the business sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u244	I think it's a big deal. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who do have a job at the moment but still live in poverty. And then the Prime Minister says: well, that is actually very well arranged in the Netherlands. Our teachers, but also the people who work in the care and our people in the police, have all taken action in the past period. They all say that working in our sector must become more attractive. Work pressure reduction helps, but certainly also a higher wage. Here the Prime Minister actually says: well, that's all in order; a lot is happening already. Why is he deaf to the signals from society? And why doesn't he use the tools he does have at his disposal as a politician to influence the rise in wages?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u245	First of all, the point that Mrs Van Kooten also raised in her first term: the problem of working poor, the people who stack jobs and have very little money. I've already talked about that. I have outlined what we are doing in the framework of the Borstlap Committee, within the framework of a minimum rate forzzp, and what we are doing with the Labour Market Act in balance. That is a whole package of measures. That does not just solve it; I also said that this is a tough problem. So that's what we discussed, but that doesn't solve it. I thought the discussion was now much more about the broad public sector, so the people in the care, education and police and defense. There are broad-based collective agreements. The average of all these wage increases is really in line with whatever happens in the business sectors. So I do not deny that there can be a problem for, as it is called, 'working poor', people with very small wages, who often work part-time or feel more or less forced to rent out as a zzp'er. We talked about that. But I thought Mrs. Marijnissen here was talking about that much broader group of agents, teachers and nurses. That's where I'm seeing wage increases right now. Yes, I would like to see more. It is of course always beautiful if it can be done, but it is not the case that they are lagging behind what is happening in the companies. My party political point was much more the huge discrepancy between the top salaries and the collective bargaining increases in very large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u246	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u247	The Prime Minister completely ignores my point: do people get their fair share? You yourself have called on these companies to say that the rise in wages is lagging behind and that it cannot be that there is so much more to be earned at the top than in the workplace. The foreman of the largest party here, the most liberal party here, your party, said yesterday: it does not turn out to be an automatism that if things go well at the top, then it will seep to the workplace. Then we can do two things. Then we can agree. I shall just say it as a profit that I can hear it from the mouth of a liberal. But if it doesn't work out for the people themselves, if nothing's gonna change, what good is it gonna do us? We must ensure that wages actually go up. I appeal to you: you appeal to the business community, but you could also assume your responsibility here, in the Chamber, by, for example, raising the minimum wage or, for example, investing extra in the public sector, with the aim of raising all wages in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u248	I am referring to the previous answer. There are still collective bargaining in the public sector, but many collective agreements have been concluded. The wage increases there are in line with what is happening in business. I'm glad. I would ask Mr Kuzu, who is at the interrupting microphone, to be patient, because Mrs Marijnissen also referred to Dijkhoff's questions on the example of Philips. Dijkhoff also asked me to put it this way: what can you do now to stimulate the good in a more targeted way? In his speech, he first talked about how to take the Philips society to the future. He also sketched the image of Brainport Eindhoven: look at the sponsoring of PSV, where now no company is on the shirt but "Brainport Eindhoven." This is, of course, an example of companies that collectively say: we are committed to the region. But Dijkhoff also said that there is a question of reciprocity, reciprocity between business and society. I think that my reaction would be, in line with his argument that I can sympathise with this point, that there is a responsibility for both the government and the business community themselves. Businesses have a very important role to play as a model and very often perform it in a good way, for example by taking the lead in the debate on climate issues or resolving other major societal issues. I would like to add that I believe that the top men of these very large companies should be much more visible in the public debate. I was very happy to see Mr Van Houten of Philips on television the other day, in a talk show where he was interviewed. Then you may not be happy with all the answers, but at least you'll have that public discussion. Then they don't hide behind a big PR department anymore. I think that is strong, but it should be done on a much larger scale that they are really publicly accountable for what they are doing. Then more specifically about what you can specifically do to stimulate good. I also said it in the discussion with Mrs Marijnissen: the cabinet considers it important that companies contribute to economic growth, but also to the growth of salaries. We are taking a number of measures ourselves, in the package of burdens that is contained in it, with the overall burden on businesses actually being increased. Including next year's reduction in the VPB rate, this is still a burden increase of over 5 billion for companies. There is a considerable reduction in the burden for citizens. We will continue to look at the development of burdens on businesses and households and whether they are in balance. We will also, at the request of Mr Dijkhoff, but yesterday I heard the same question from Mr Jetten and I believe that Mr Heerma too will look into whether there are other means, specific means of promoting this. We will inform the Chamber about this later, because it is really a technical exercise how we can do exactly that. It's not that easy. But I get the request and we're gonna see if we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u249	For a number of years now, I think three years, we have a jubilee mood in The Hague around this period. We are dealing with economic growth and beautiful purchasing power. It's all going great. But research by Nieuwsuur shows that 76% of people do not notice that economic growth. Then I can stay in the circle of what has been said in the past interruptions, but I am not going to do that, because that is clear. The government makes a number of choices, and we would not make those choices, especially with regard to low incomes, which hardly notice economic growth and the improvement of purchasing power. The point is that 76% of people do not notice any improvement in purchasing power and do not actually trust politics anymore. The Prime Minister just said they're not promises. But what picture do we paint in society when we are in a jubilee mood around this time, reading the news everywhere that the economy and purchasing power are doing well, and then the Prime Minister says: but wait a minute, it is not a promise. How does he think that's gonna come across in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u250	I think it is quite clear that people will say: see first, then believe. Especially after the last few years. 2016 was the last year in which there was a very heavy burden relief package. That's what you really see in the purchasing power figures. Next year we will have a further substantial relief package. In all respects, wage increases are expected to increase. But I am not talking about that; I only echo what the Central Planning Bureau says about it, namely that inflation is expected to be less high because the VAT increase is coming out, and wage increases are increasing. So it is not logical that there will be major setbacks here, but you never know for sure. That's why I have a certain expectation. We can promise to reduce the burden through the economy, because that is something we can do here. If there is a majority for that in the Second and First Chambers, you can promise a relief. You can't promise buying power, because that's an effect of all kinds of things. But you may expect purchasing power to develop favourably next year, because collective wage increases and inflation falls somewhat. But we don't know that for sure. I fully understand that anyone who looks now will say, "Find it out, see it first," then believe it. I think, however, that we now have a package on the basis of which we can expect that next year we will be able to see this reduction in the wallet at least. That's what you're seeing all over the cabinet period. But Mr Kuzu has a point: in the last few years it has simply not been possible and it has been left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u251	It makes perfect sense for people to say, "See first, then believe." Indeed, the results of the past are not a guarantee for the future. People have also experienced a VAT increase in the past year, rising energy bills and rising health insurance premiums, as well as things that are not in the CPB models, such as higher costs for public transport and commuting. The question I asked in my first interruption was: what does it do with the confidence of the people in politics in The Hague and especially in the Prime Minister of the pack in the last ten years if we have a jubilation here about economic growth and purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u252	In the last ten years it has been successful a few times, but not for the past two years. In that sense it is first seeing, then believing; I fully understand that. Exactly for that reason, it was mentioned in the Throne speech that people do not fit into a statistical purchasing power model, that we are with 17 million people in this country, that if you lose a job, the effects are much greater and if you find a job, the effects are much more positive. On average, however, the last few years have not been successful. Of course, that doesn't help the confidence at all; I understand that. That is why it is important, I think, that this year, here in the debate too, we have a tone that says: the economy is doing well and we want people to feel it through investment in education and care, but also in what they have left in the wallet. Because next year there will be a very significant reduction in the burden, you can expect that eventually also to work in people's wallets. But that's an expectation, not a promise. The only promise you can make is precisely that relief, because if there is a majority for it, we can implement it. You can promise that, but you can't promise that purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u253	We could see yesterday that a lot of parties, both trade unions and political parties in this Chamber, joined the Prime Minister's earlier call for wage increases in industry to land between 4% and 5% next year. It's at 2.5% now. So that's far too little. I therefore welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Heerma and myself, namely that the cabinet should look at how specific companies that are really lagging behind in this wage increase can be targeted in order to enforce wage increases there as well. But my question to the Prime Minister is actually: is he prepared to include in that package the tax on profits as a means of exerting pressure on wage increases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u254	I'd really watch out for that. We've postponed it for a year now, for very good reasons, I think. But I'd really like to be careful with that. I am not going to decide on that alone; that lies with the coalition and the cabinet. I would like to be careful with it, because the burden on companies, including the reduction of the tax on profits for large companies next year, is increasing considerably in favour of the people. The relationship is now as I outlined it earlier. This is therefore a considerable increase in the burden on companies. That includes the reduction of the top rate in the Vpb. What you want to achieve is also exactly the question that Jetten, but also Dijkhoff and others, themselves, asked themselves is to stimulate the good; that is what Klaas Dijkhoff called it. The top rate in the Vpb is, of course, a rather crude instrument for that, because it ends up very unfocused. Fortunately, the low rate can just drop to 15%, according to plan. Of course, this includes the majority of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u255	That is a bit of a disappointing answer, because I think the whole of the Netherlands was very surprised when the Prime Minister showed a convert at the VVD festival and said that he did not want to put the tax on profits on one, but reduced the burden on citizens. I think the Prime Minister's threat has worked out very well. That's what we see in this Millions Note. Of course it is good to see how best to encourage the bad guys in business to make a 4% to 5% wage increase there, but I think you need that tax as an ultimate leverage. So my question to the Prime Minister is once again: is he prepared to leave it on the table as an ultimate leverage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u256	I'm not talking about that; that's a coalition matter. There's no plans for that. The papers say it's gonna happen next year. It is rather unfocused, and the burdens of businesses are really increasing significantly compared to those of citizens. There are all good reasons for that. I believe that we have found a sensible balance. But I would really like to say to Mr Jetten: we must also be careful not to increase the burden on companies. The top rate in the Vpb is quite an unfocused instrument to achieve this. That's what I realized as a party leader. I have to split that very precisely when I stand here, but Mr Jetten is partly in favour of that. So let me say as the foreman of my party: I think that those very large companies with this kind of huge wage increases at the top should really do more than the average of wage increases, which are now around 2.5% to 3%. That's just what I think. I believe that these very large companies should be above that, especially if the top men's salaries increase by 10% or more. But that's what I say as a party man. I like the balance we found here. But beware: including the reduction of the VPB rate next year, the burden on businesses will rise significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u257	Finally, and very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u258	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with the Prime Minister when he says that the pay gap in a number of large companies is really unacceptable. He says we should be careful not to talk about raising taxes for business. There is no question of that at all. The tax rate for companies for income tax remains the same. The only reason why a number of companies need to pay more tax is because we are removing all kinds of deductions and tackling tax evasion harder. So it is absolutely right that these tax revenues are finally coming in. Finally, I note that we have to wait for this man, Mr Rutte, not on the burden on businesses, but on the burden on citizens, for the next VVD festival, and then see if he has a different opinion than he does when he is here in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u259	The final sentence that has been rehearsed is not correct, because I think I am showing that I am serious and I will tell you that again as foreman of my party. But now I'm speaking for the coalition. I think there is a really good balance. I also understand Dijkhoff's question, which asks: how can you further stimulate the good? Then I would point out that the top rate in the Vpb is a rather crude instrument, because that also affects a lot of entrepreneurs who you don't want to touch at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u260	I would like to make a comment about interruptions. They must be really short. Those are just questions and answers and no conclusions, observations and statements. There's just a second deadline for that. The Prime Minister has put forward ten topics. I think he's on topic number two now. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u261	There is even a final piece of number one, but the good news is that one and two are by far the biggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u262	No, no, no. I'd like to make some sort of arrangement about interruptions. They are not limited, because they are too important to connect to all kinds of agreements, but they just need to be brief. Again, Mr. Jetten. You need to repeat that in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u263	Mr President, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u264	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u265	But if we do not make the faint comments, we do not have to come back to the interrupting microphone again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u266	Okay. Well, it all started out so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u267	Yeah, I'm fine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u268	Yes, I do. Give a good example, Mr. Asscher, of a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u269	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u270	Watch this. The problem of this cabinet is not a lack of money, but a lack of awareness of what society needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u271	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u272	The question is: will the Netherlands be at an irresponsible risk if we do not reduce the tax on profits next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u273	No, not that, but just looking at the figures, you can see that next year, including the reduction in the tax on profits, there will be more than 5 billion burdens on companies. That includes the reduction in the top rate of the Vpb. In the end, with the whole basic path, with everything in front of this cabinet, citizens are making more than 4 billion advances from the crisis. That is why we have put this whole crisis behind us. I'm very happy about that. That's all good news, but you should also keep an eye on that balance. My point as a party man was, of course, mainly about those very large companies and the increases in salaries there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u274	The Prime Minister also has a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u275	Yeah, I'm gonna do it even shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u276	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u277	We're trained here together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u278	So it is not an irresponsible risk; here we see progress. Then there is the second question. When you talk about balance, about what goes wrong now, about poverty, about homelessness and teacher shortages, is the Netherlands' biggest problem next year in the Prime Minister's eyes that these big companies are paying too much tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u279	No, not at all. I'm just looking for the balance. My point is that we have to be careful here. We want to get golden eggs out of the chicken. Then we'll have to keep feeding the chicken, too. So you have to be careful that it is not that you finally took out the last golden egg and that the chicken is dead on the ground. I thought this was a nice comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u280	The Minister for Agriculture has left the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u281	I sure liked it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u282	I was trying to make a comparison with the chicken and the golden eggs. You have to keep feeding the chicken. That includes companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u283	I think I understand the equation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u284	Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u285	Thank you for giving me some extra time for this intricate metaphor. Next thing I know, Jetten's gonna come. He hates the little animals. Oh, sorry! No, nothing's wrong. Jetten's gonna stay put. My problem wasn't that you didn't slaughter those chickens. I am very happy with these big companies and I think it is fantastic that they provide employment, but you proposed last year with the dividend tax and then with the income tax to turn a chicken like that into a turkey, with money and fat that that chicken does not need. My plea here today is: there are greater societal needs at the moment; have an eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u286	I have that eye, but it's not true that we do; I really don't. If you look at the whole relationship, you can see that we are now really asking for a decent sacrifice from the companies. This may also be the case at this stage of the economy and in the way they stand, but balance is really crucial here too. That's my only point. That is what I meant by that chicken, because in the end, of course, those companies are the ones who have to provide jobs and the jobs of the future. Fortunately, we have now focused this measure on the larger companies and you can see that the smaller companies can all benefit from the reduction of the low Vpb tariff. Mr. Chairman. I have two more things to say about the economy. The first concerns the Volksbank. In response to what Mr Heerma said about this: I will not repeat what is in the coalition agreement, but the situation is now that if the Volksbank is sufficiently ready to take a decision on the future, the NLFI will come up with an exit advice for the Dutch Financial Investments organization. Actually, I'd like to wait for that advice. I want to prevent them from being restricted in their advice. At present, no decision is taken on the future of the bank. The Minister of Finance is expected to send a new report to the Chamber shortly. There's an AO scheduled for November 14th. I would actually ask that Mr Heerma's suggestion be included in this general discussion. Then over...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u287	I was gonna wrap this up anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u288	The final question concerning the economy was about Air France-KLM. Of course, I can tell you every day what the shares we bought are worth, but we didn't buy them to turn profit or loss. We bought them because we wanted to make a strategic purchase. That was also explicitly mentioned by the cabinet. We didn't invest in that company as a goal in themselves. We have done this in order to take a strategic interest in the interests of a number of matters that are very relevant to the Netherlands in the context of our aviation and our competitive position. Then we can watch each day how that share develops, whether it's higher or lower and whether we're making profit or losing, but that's never been the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u289	Is this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u290	With this, this cube is ready. And I have answered almost all the questions about purchasing power by now. I've got a few left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u291	Does this mean that the Prime Minister has done the whole labour market in his response to some of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's questions? Is that right? That was part of this block, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u292	Pfff. Yes. I seem to have missed something. I'm gonna try to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u293	With your permission, Mr. Chairman. I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u294	No, excuse! I don't have the labour market yet... I've done the economy now. Sorry. I have done a lot of purchasing power and the labour market, but there are still a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u295	Clear. Now I'm just going to ask a question about the Volksbank. The Prime Minister's sketching a trial. And there's an AO coming. At the same time, the WRR also gave a clear opinion on what should be done in the financial sector and how a cleansing effect could take place. Could the Prime Minister give an appreciation of that? And can he also indicate what he thinks of the idea that you can put an ordinary bank in the market that is more for the social return than for the return of shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u296	In itself, I could reason: such a bank is already there, namely the Rabobank. That's a cooperative bank that doesn't have shareholder value as its goal. That is one of the largest banks in the Netherlands. So I'm not against or against Heerma's idea of seeing if you can turn the Volksbank into a cooperative bank. But we already have a very large cooperative bank in the Netherlands. Reflecting on the WRR opinion, I would say the following. In the coalition agreement, we said that we are going to take stock of the future options of the Volksbank, outside the government. We also need to look at the diversity of the banking landscape: how does that develop? That is also a very important consideration. I think we should include all these elements. In itself, what Mr Heerma said is not crazy. It's just, looking at one of those sofas in isolation that I find dangerous. You have to look at it all over the banking landscape.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u297	I'm glad the Prime Minister said that what I said wasn't crazy. But if...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u298	That helps in coalition relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u299	At this point. But if you look at the advice of the WRR, I do not think the answer given by the Prime Minister to the Rabobank is the right one. Because the WRR just sketches that the three large banks are too much alike and that you have to add an alternative to that that makes the banking landscape more diverse. Is that what the Prime Minister means by the end of his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u300	At least we have to look at it. Of course, I also see changes in the Rabo as regards the cooperative character, also by merging all regional offices into some 30 very large establishments. But it is a bank that is organized quite differently, as I mean to put it, rather than ING or ABN AMRO. I think you should see this issue in the light of diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u301	Briefly, Mr. Chairman, finally. Does the Prime Minister recognise that an alternative to that large three could have more cleansing effect on the financial sector than a whole bunch of procedures and protocols, which might result in regulatory pressure but no morale?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u302	It could be. I agree. But we really need to map that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u303	A brief question, when it comes to mapping. The exit advice that is being issued primarily focuses on how much money it can make for the government if we get rid of the shares again. I would really like to ask you to have a broad debate here in the Chamber on the various options for this bank. I hope that this will also be mapped out and that the Chamber will not be confronted with the communication: there is one outcome and this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u304	I believe that this is foreseen in the general consultation on 14 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u305	The Prime Minister is almost at the end of the purchasing power block. I'd like to ask you one more time. Purchasing power for workers increases by 2%; for older people, this is at most half if pensions are not reduced by the end of the year. Is there anything the Prime Minister can do for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u306	What you can do for older people... we are really going to repeat... is everything that takes place outside the second pension pillars, so beyond the pensions that you and I are building with our employers, do maximum. We will. We're fully indexing the AOW. Pensioners benefit fully from the tax reduction and the reduction of charges. So that's what we all do. The second thing that is very specific to people over 65 with a supplementary pension is that there are problems with a number of pension funds, which threaten discounts. Then we sail on the compass of the Chamber's motion which has been widely accepted and which says: we are going to see if we can avoid unnecessary discounts. That is a process that Wouter Koolmies is currently working on. I cannot now give any guarantees as to its outcome. I can't say that's gonna cut the discounts. We'll see if we can avoid unnecessary discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u307	I hope that this cabinet will realise that some of these discounts are the result of the rules of the same cabinet. Those rules of the game can certainly be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u308	Yes, but you take a risk for the whole pension system, for which the liabilities have tripled, the investment results have doubled and they are almost equal. No older or younger in the Netherlands wants that. We need to find that balance. I would ask Mr Krol to continue to make the overall balance between all generations and all interests. No one here is looking for a pension discount. Nobody. Why would you want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u309	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u310	I would like to say one more time that these obligations have only tripled in this cabinet's calculations. According to the actual figures, there is still more money coming in than goes out. As long as more money comes in than goes out, there's nothing really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u311	That is not true, because the obligations and the investment results are about the same level. It's just not true. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u312	I'm going to interrupt you anyway, because I'd like to suggest that we suspend until 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u313	Then we have the arrangement of work first. Around a quarter past two, the Prime Minister continues to answer the questions.
