ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we have now come to the final question. That is Mr Sjoerdsma's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, who replaces the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is about President Trump's statements on the release of ISIS prisoners. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. President Trump goes through the porcelain cabinet like an elephant. First he explains the struggle against ISIS while thousands of warriors are still out there and then he surprises allies with a barely hidden Twitter threat about releasing European jihadis. That does not fit in with the way we work together in the alliance. It does not fit in with the great role played by the Netherlands as one of the few countries to use F16's in that fight. At the same time, it raises the acute question of how to proceed. How can we prevent war criminals from getting out of prison, the people of Syria from seeing these people run away unpunished and seeing how they can get back to the Netherlands under the radar? We must prevent this from happening; the cabinet must prevent this from happening. We must guarantee the safety of the Netherlands and justice for the victims. That raises the following questions. 1. How does the Cabinet indicate Trump's call? 2. What is the chance that the government will actually release these war criminals? Mr. Chairman. Finally, this plea. The Chamber called on the Security Council to come forward with a proposal to prosecute and prosecute ISIS fighters exactly a year ago. This was a proposal from the CDA that was widely supported by various parties in this Chamber. That was a year ago, but Minister Blok still hasn't made that proposal. Now we are empty-handed, because local trial, as we all know, is simply not in it. My question is therefore why the Foreign Minister did not make that proposal. Is the cabinet prepared to try this in the UN context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President. In the first instance, in response to Mr Sjoerdsma's question, how the cabinet points out the call. We have, of course, taken note of the call. It wasn't new. The nature and perhaps the pervasiveness of tone are different of nuance, but it has been done many times at all levels in the past period. We are, of course, concerned about the announced departure of the US from Syria, because that is the first step, a step that will bring new dynamism and thus also affect the change in the playing field itself. The prisons in question are managed by the SDF and not by the US. However, they do rely on the presence of the Americans. The first thing the cabinet does, of course, but that actually goes without saying, is that we are monitoring developments very closely. We are in close contact with a number of European allies. There's no change of position or insight. We are following developments, we are in contact at all levels, we do not yet have any reports of departures, extravagants or plans from other countries to respond to the American President's call. Of course, we share Mr Sjoerdsma's explicit concern about the risks to safety that may be created directly or indirectly by this. In view of the government's considerations and estimates, I cannot make detailed statements on this, but we share the great concern. With regard to trial and the fight against impunity, the Netherlands has made a number of attempts to establish an international mechanism both before and during the temporary membership of the UN Security Council. We have indeed found no support for this at all, not even from allies. That is perhaps a sad observation. We will do our best and we will continue to set up the evidence bank for the moment that a trial can take place. We are continuing to invest in the Imperial and Independent Mechanism, the international independent mechanism, and we are also the largest donor to the EU, and we are trying to call on everyone to join in the follow-up to Security Council Resolution 2379 which addresses crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by ISIS in Iraq. This so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you to the Minister for her reply. In her answers, I can tell you that she shares the concerns, but this raises even more concerns for me. And, Madam President, I am sorry to have to call someone to order; that is, of course, not my role, I understand. However, I am concerned about the chances that the Kurds, the SDF, will actually release these jihadis in the coming period. I am assuming that I may assume that the cabinet will do everything in its power to prevent that release. For there seems to me to be no greater security risk than that these people will be at large, often with blood on their hands, and then can come back to the Netherlands under the radar, without us knowing it. That seems to me to be something we must avoid at all times. I would very much like to hear from this Minister that the cabinet is also committed to this, and how the cabinet is committed to it. The second is that justice, and, of course, justice for the relatives and victims of the terrible acts committed there by ISIS and its members. So justice. The Minister says that we tried that in the Security Council, but there was no support for it. Anyway, we tried that behind the scenes. We've tasted behind the scenes that even our allies don't want to. But I can imagine, for example, that we would ask these people to confess colour in front of the screens. I understand that this is perhaps not so common in the world of the Security Council and the world of the UN, but it is very frustrating to see that there is now no judicial mechanism for these people. Locally not, because the evidence is often obtained through torture or because it then contains the death penalty. But then, if nothing can happen internationally, then we're actually stuck. I think that is a very undesirable situation. Those are my questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	The first question. I think those great concerns about security are a totally shared feeling. There's no question about that. At present, we have no indication that the Kurds intend, even if the Americans were to leave, to release the captured ISIS fighters and families, but that is not a guarantee. At the moment that is what we know about the Kurds. The Syrian Kurds are also calling for a solution. Then, of course, there is a feedback to the position of the Dutch cabinet, namely that we do not intend to actively retrieve women and children in any way, for example. There is, of course, the District Attorney of Rotterdam, who has given an order or brought an order to the attention of the Minister of Justice and Security, to enable the trial of a number of ISIS affiliates and possibly warriors in the Netherlands. But that is a separate issue at the moment; it is a separate process which is being studied by the Minister for Justice and Security. A policy change by the Netherlands is not at issue, should the Kurds release a number of prisoners. We are closely monitoring developments at all levels by all means. As far as the trial is concerned, I share your sense of frustration. It is, of course, sad to see that, while we are engaged in temporary membership at all levels and through all channels, no action is being taken, not even by allies. But the ultimate best way for trial and the fight against impunity is at national level. We are focusing on Iraq, with, of course, the caveat that the Netherlands does not want this to lead to the execution of the death penalty, because we are against the death penalty. As far as Syria is concerned, the process is still too difficult politically. We are waiting for the negotiations, led by the UN Envoy, not to get ahead of ourselves. We're doing evidence garging right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally. You've got 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr President, two more questions. One: what if the Turks raid Northern Syria again, forcing the SDF to move their men from the camps and suddenly release these people? And two: Minister Grapperhaus has announced that he will talk to the Kurds; when can we expect the results of the investigation of this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	A brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	I understand the question of what to do, but I cannot, of course, give a simple answer to that at the moment. The second question I will pass on to Minister Grapperhaus. I don't know his timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	And then the minister gets word about that, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	The emigrated Syrians and ISIS fighters have chosen to say goodbye to the rule of law. Of course, that does not mean that we do not want to participate. We have also repeatedly called for an international mechanism, as Mr Sjoerdsma said. The Minister says: we tried. The CDA would also have liked to see a concrete proposal from this cabinet. Well, then we'd be on the table for something we could come back to. That's not there right now. Now that Trump is making this call, isn't that the right time to put that proposal back on the table? Mrs Merkel has also made comments in this direction. Trump is now asking us for outbound Syrians...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	Wait a minute, Madam President. Trump is now asking us to bring out Syrians back to the Netherlands and have them wear an anklet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Van Helvert, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	...when they'd rather wear a bomb belt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	The cabinet is still of the opinion that there should be no active return of Dutch extravagants and their children. The thesis is that it concerns people who deliberately and knowingly made the choice to leave the Netherlands to join terrorist organisations. However, the children are the victims of this. Of course, we are also looking at international developments, as just discussed with Mr Sjoerdsma. These developments are closely monitored, but the Netherlands continues to make its own political assessment. We will see how we can implement the ordered detention of the court in Rotterdam. But the starting point remains that the safety of all concerned must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	I would like to support colleagues' plea to call more publicly on colleagues in Europe but also within the Security Council to establish a UN tribunal in Iraq so that the trial can take place there. I wholeheartedly support that. Then my question. The Minister has just said that we are committed to national trial in Iraq. That sounds nice and adequate, but at the same time the Minister says that the death penalty applies there. How is this minister going to use Syria fighters' national trial in Iraq and possibly also of ISIS fighters? How is she going to prevent the death penalty being pronounced for these people? And how is she going to prevent confessions from being enforced through torture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	The commitment of the Netherlands goes through the UN mission in Iraq, which supports the rule of law and the establishment of the judicial system. So all channels run through the mission. It will be very difficult, as the Netherlands, to prevent Iraq from carrying out the death penalty. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's That is a question of national sovereignty. We do influence, we have constant contacts, and we make that message very clear. I spoke to Foreign Minister Alhaakim a few weeks ago, as did my colleague Mr Blok recently. We make it very clear every time. But national prosecution, including for the crimes committed by ISIS, remains desirable. We also call on Iraq to accept the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	My first question has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	No, Mr Voordewind, that's the point; I was actually going to say that. The same applies to Mr Van Helvert, who spoke on behalf of the CDA. The questions need to be answered, but it helps enormously if the questions are brief and concrete. The longer and more extensive the question is, the easier it is to deal with it differently. Mr Van Helvert's question was about when the international mechanism would be proposed again. Mr Voordewind also had a question. No, Mr Voordewind, you're not getting the floor right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	I answered that question, Madam President. I replied that we call on Iraq to accept the International Criminal Court, that we have no control over autonomous, sovereign Iraqi decisions and that we do so through the UN mission in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	Okay. The same applies to Mr Voordewind. If I give him the floor, Mr Van Helvert will rise again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	Maybe the question wasn't clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	No, I'll leave it at that; thank you Mr Voordewind. I thank the Minister. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
