ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (35300-V). I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Today we are discussing the first term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I've heard that when you start a speech, you have to start with a cannon shot. That's why I say it's war. Islamic terrorists and their supporters worldwide are undermining states, killing civilians and preaching jihad. It is a war that is constantly raging and can turn its head on anything, especially in Israel. I quote: 'You can set the clock on one thing: every year there is another battle in which terrorists from Gaza fire a rocket rain on Israel.' That quote belongs to me. This is what I said last year when dealing with the budget for 2019. Copy-paste to today. It's cowardly terror, directed against innocent civilians. The random and unfocused missile rain is a reaction to a targeted attack, which took out a commander of Islamic Jihad. That was a defensive, military act which deserves all the praise and which our government should support. Cross-border, Islamic terrorism must be tackled wherever it is necessary and possibly preventive, wherever it is. I therefore ask the Minister to support the Israeli precision attack. Is he prepared at the same time to condemn the terrorist reaction in the form of random firing of missiles at civilian targets? That is my second question. The terror group Islamic Jihad is what it is through Iran's support. There, in Iran, are the facilitators of the current wave of violence against Israeli citizens. My question is: what consequences will the Netherlands have? Are we finally going to see and treat Iran as a malicious power? When it comes to identifying and tackling a major source of Islamic violence, Iran, the Rutte III cabinet is blind, deaf and incompetent, it seems. This cabinet, with this foreign minister in the lead, still wants to maintain friendly ties with Iran. Even for Iran, it stands in the way of maintaining Obama's nuclear fucking agreement. It puts our most loyal ally, the United States, in the dirt to stay on speaking terms with those evil Islamic clergy in Tehran. The Dutch interest is thereby harmed. And all that while Iran has had liquidations carried out in the Netherlands and now even shelters the most wanted criminal in our country, Ridoun Taghi, called the Al-Baghdadi of the cokemafia. He is even helped by the Iranian secret service, as De Telegraaf reported us a few weeks ago. And then I ask: what has the Minister done since then? 'Cause it stays quiet. What has the Minister done to respond to this? I want to know exactly, and I want to get a timeline, too. Is he doing enough? It doesn't look like it at all. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, among the range of Islamic threats, Iran is not the biggest problem for the Netherlands and our national security. Those are the IS fighters and their families who are threatening to return, when they must be tried and never, ever, should return to the Netherlands. And yet that is likely to happen now. The local trial of murderers and genocide victims of Islamic State in the region where they have shown their malpractice is getting worse. All this, while Iraq would like to try the IS fighters who have committed crimes on Iraqi territory, including those IS fighters of Dutch nationality. However, Iraq is having trouble getting the Foreign Minister's finger up in the direction of the Iraqi penal system. And rightly so, I'd say. By the way, who are we to judge? Especially if the alternative means that the IS rig will probably be sent to the Netherlands on the plane. Therefore, the PVV wants the Netherlands to stop interfering with the Iraqi penal law and measure of punishment. The trial of genocide victims should not be allowed to break on conditions that Iraq does not want, but on which the IS-scan is clinging. Whose side do we choose: Iraq's or the sadist's? As far as I'm concerned, we absolutely choose the first. The Netherlands must leave the Iraqi penal system untouched. Let the condition that the death penalty should not be applied to the Dutch IS rig fall like a brick. Drop the IS warriors like a brick. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, with the decision that the Netherlands must make efforts to return IS women and children, the judge in the Netherlands has taken the side of terror. Because if the children have to be brought back, you get the women automatically, while those women were the worst in the caliphate. We know this from the stories of the victims of the Islamic reign of terror. And yet we are getting signals that the Netherlands has recently provided consular assistance to IS women with regard to a possible return. That is all before the court ruling last Monday. I therefore put the following questions to the Minister. Firstly, can the Minister confirm or deny that Dutch diplomats have been active on Syrian territory in recent months? Secondly, can the Minister deny or confirm that Dutch diplomats have been in contact with IS fighters and their families to talk about return? Thirdly, has the capacity of diplomatic posts been increased with a view to recovering IS fighters and family? In the letter sent to us by the Minister on 11 November this was presented as an opportunity. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another issue, namely the air strikes in Iraq and the civilian deaths, which we have discussed before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	However, I would like to return for a moment to those IS fighters and to our shared desire that these people should not escape and that they should certainly not escape their trial. I think that wish is widely shared in the Chamber. But between nose and lips, you also said a number of other things. I actually wanted to ask: is the PVV for the death penalty or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	When it comes to the Netherlands, we are against the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	This is about the Netherlands. This is about Dutch and it is also about the Dutch Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. It states that the death penalty does not relate to the values of our society, to the values enshrined in our Constitution. So I ask myself, Madam President, whether Mr De Roon wants to let go of those values and waste them now that we are talking about horrible criminals, but still want to stop doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	Those who have begun to fight for Islamic State have all squandered the values themselves. They threw them overboard, and if the Islamic State hadn't gone down, they'd be sitting there now and not longing for a return to the Netherlands for a second. I'm not gonna facilitate them, they're gonna figure it out, and I'm gonna stick with it: they need to be tried in Iraq, whether or not with the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	The deep feeling against these criminals, I can imagine. But I must also note that the PVV is now also pragmatically dealing with the death penalty and joining the SGP. In doing so, the PVV also puts a bomb under the policy of this foreign minister to fight the death penalty worldwide, because there are also countries where, for example, non-belief and your sexual preference can be punished with the death penalty. Mr De Roon and his party are now rejecting all the arguments that this minister has to exonerate those people. I find that very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	That sounds like bullshit to me. We do not take away any arguments relating to other matters at all. All I'm saying is that for these things that we're talking about here today, I don't give a shit whether or not these people are going to get the death penalty. That's to be decided by Iraq itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	Good. Air strikes Iraq and civilian deaths, that's my next point. I believe that the government's policy with regard to Syria and Iraq is partly shrouded in mist. It seems that withholding information has become the norm, and openness is the exception. Last week we discussed the Dutch air attacks in Iraq and the civilian deaths as a result. It was made very clear by the Minister of Defence that several ministries, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, had already been informed of the high number of civilian deaths in Harija in June 2015. Now I ask: is there a new lie here, or was the Minister of Defence telling the truth about this? If she was telling the exact truth, I would also like to know exactly when the information on the 70 civilian deaths and the air raid in Harija ended up in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm asking the Minister to respond to that. The former PvdA executives in the Ministry certainly deny that they were aware of it. Then the conclusion is simple: whether they are lying, or Minister Bijleveld has lied about this. In theory, there is a third possibility, namely that the information has arrived at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but has not been passed on to the official summit. If so, then the chaos and disorder in that department is even greater. If news about 70 civilian deaths doesn't get through to the official and political summit, then what does? So I would like an extremely precise answer from the Minister, because that ticking time bomb of disinformation must be dismantled as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the issue of UN nominations. There is an increasing wave of political correctness and international interference from the UN, which also affects the Netherlands and the Dutch interests. For example, not a month goes by without the Netherlands being tapped by UN bobos and UN institutions. UN officials with no right to speak criticize the Dutch way of working and living. Black Piet is wrong, our migration policy is too strict and the Netherlands must bring back the IS families. These are, in my view, sick messages and hidden assignments from an international organisation to which the Netherlands is not responsible at all. But many parties in this Chamber like to be lectured by the UN, as happened last month when an African woman who later turned out to be a Mugabefan criticized and drew conclusions that copied and pasted corpses from the websites of DENK and Kick Out Zwarte Piet. Mr. Chairman. Luckily, there's a serious shortage of money at the UN of $230 million. That's what the U.N. boss reported last month. He would therefore have asked the UN Member States to pay more contributions. My question to the Minister is: what did the Netherlands answer? Can the Minister guarantee us that the Netherlands has not promised or transferred a penny extra to the UN and the UN institutions? Let this place go bankrupt. The PVV is happy to contribute to a bankruptcy request. I am now zooming in on the UN Human Rights Council, because I read in the budgetary documents that the Netherlands is also committed to promoting human rights in 2020 and therefore wants to become a member of the UN Human Rights Council next year. That is a remarkable paradox, because if you think human rights are important, why do you want to join a club full of countries where human rights represent little to nothing? In fact, where victims of human rights violations also systematically cover each other up. That is the reality of the Human Rights Council. Look at Saudi Arabia where people with swords are beheaded and where, according to a CIA report, the Crown Prince ordered his services to kill journalist Khashoggi. This week, as many as 85% of the members of the UN Human Rights Council have even congratulated Saudi Arabia on human rights policy. Or look at Qatar or China, countries that get away with zero convictions. Zero! And then Israel. That country had to receive a conviction 71 times since the establishment of the Human Rights Council. The country is even constantly being included as an item on the agenda. The cabinet calls this disproportionate. We, the PVV, prefer to call it a dangerous anti-Israelite. The fact that the cabinet in that club where all this happens wants to continue to do so is a disgrace. The Netherlands should therefore not take its seat on the Council. The Netherlands should even call for the abolition of the Human Rights Council. I ask the Minister to make himself useful and to work for it. Mr. Chairman. Dan UNRWA. It is high time to turn this organization upside down too. That club is entirely dedicated to the so-called Palestinian refugees and is independent of the UN organisation UNHCR which deals with all the other refugees in the world. UNRWA claims to help 5.7 million refugees. You can argue a lot about that figure, but I won't now. I am comparing it with UNHCR, which has to stand up for the 70 million other refugees on earth. However, UNRWA's budget per refugee is four times higher than UNHCR's. UNWRA has 10,000 men and women as staff, UNHCR as many as 30,000. No, it's the other way around: UNWRA has 30,000 men and UNCHR has 10,000. UNWRA encourages Palestinian fixation on the right of return and, it seems, is mainly aimed at maintaining itself. It also maintains the Palestinian war against Israel. Now I know that the Netherlands has suspended all payments to UNWRA as long as there is an investigation into the maladministration and misconduct of the UNWRA summit. If that suspension is still in force, I ask the Minister. As far as PVV is concerned, the Netherlands has to stop funding. I therefore ask the Minister to do so. Just put a permanent line under it. Finally, Mr President. Just one more word about Turkey. At the same time as Al-Baghdadi's death came out that the terrorist leader had been hiding in the shadow of the state of Turkey for months, only five kilometres from the Turkish border. One of his wives or sisters, I'd like to get rid of that for a moment, and a brother was constantly commuting up and down to Istanbul to settle the finances. It seems inconceivable to me that the Turks did not know anything about this. Apparently, so did the Americans who started the operation to catch Baghdadi, not from the nearby Turkish base Incirlik, but from Iraq, from a base seven times further away from the target. Erdogan's Turkey cannot be trusted; we must distrust it. That Turkey is anything but an ally and should be placed outside NATO. If we cannot officially disbar Turkey, then at least we must not cooperate with Turkey at any level. Will the Minister confirm that? So much for my first-term input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is the point of foreign policy? Foreign policy is serving policy. It's for something: it's for the protection of our safety. It is also necessary to let the Netherlands be the Netherlands. And it's essential to our prosperity and well-being. Abroad is essential for the Netherlands. After all, we were also liberated 75 years ago by our "now-bonds" abroad. We need to work together for security and we need to work together against terrorism. It is also through abroad that we realize that we are the Netherlands and what that means. A country with a unique culture, a uniqueness, but also an openness. A country that embraces newcomers as long as they embrace our values and our laws. There is a Dutch identity that we must protect. The well-being and prosperity of the Netherlands also come with us to a large extent through abroad, through our trade and our investments, and through the investments and trade from abroad. And that is because of our fantastic locational climate, but also because of Dutch society, the good education and reputation of the Netherlands when it comes to reliability. In short, the Netherlands is big because of abroad, but we are therefore also dependent on abroad. This dependence also implies a vulnerability. That is why we must take foreign policy very seriously. So we must also have priorities and focus in our foreign policy. The VVD says: foreign policy is policy for the Dutch and for the fundamental Dutch interests and values. The policy aims to ensure that four points are mentioned: first: the Dutch are safe and free. The Netherlands, the Netherlands, continues to stand up for these values and identity. The third point is for jobs and for prosperity. And fourthly, foreign policy also serves to make it easy for Dutch people to live, work and travel abroad. Security must therefore be an important priority, but within it we must focus on the instability that exists around Europe. The instability of Russia, the Middle East and North Africa. That's what we need to focus on. We also need to focus on new circumstances. I call that technology. It is no longer like the old days that geographical control is the greatest strategic factor. Technology is now also an important strategic factor. It brings a lot of good things, but it also brings bad things. We therefore need to be realistic about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	Let me turn to Mr Koopmans' introduction. He says that we must defend our values and our security in our foreign policy. Does the fight against the death penalty also fall under these Dutch values?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	Sure. Maybe I could give you a little sneak preview. I will come to the issue of international law in greater detail later, so perhaps I can discuss it further with Mr Voordewind. But I can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	I am concerned about this point. I am glad that we are getting confirmation here, because your colleague spokesperson for the Justice Department is not so keen on defending the fight against the death penalty. As you know, he said earlier that the death penalty is fair when we have to condemn it in Iraq. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Let's do it now. My colleague Yeşilgöz has said a number of things about this very clearly. Let me make it clear, as she did: the VVD is against the death penalty, in the Netherlands and abroad. She also said that people who went to Iraq as a jihadist from the Netherlands and are now under the control of Iraq have been subjected to a system there and that the death penalty is taking place there. It's their choice to go there. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	We are defending the values of the fight against the death penalty. So we should also do that in Iraq, because it is worldwide, says Mr Koopmans. And here we are again talking about Dutch people, people with a Dutch passport. Those are two big warnings that you need to put on a red light.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	I'm asking for realism here. These people are in Iraq. They're in a country where they've committed horrible crimes. They went there knowingly and knowingly to commit those horrible crimes. They have submitted to a legal system in which the death penalty takes place. That's their risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	So the VVD is against the death penalty unless people have committed terrible crimes somewhere in the world and have done so knowingly and knowingly. Then we have to be pragmatic about that. That is what Mr Koopmans has just said, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	No, what I said and what my colleague Yeşilgöz said earlier is as follows. The VVD is against the death penalty. We are against the death penalty in the Netherlands and we are against the death penalty abroad. But we now have a situation where there are a number of people, possibly Dutch, who have probably committed horrible crimes, horrible terrorist crimes, genocide and whatnot. They are then in a country where they have gone knowingly and knowingly, and which they knew in advance: if you do such things, you will get the death penalty. Then we say, "That's your risk." We don't want these people here. We don't choose to fly these people here. Those people are going to be tried there. That's accepting Iraq's sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	I don't think there was anything wrong with my summary. The VVD is against the death penalty. Unless you commit a terrible crime in a country with the death penalty, namely Iraq in this case, we must deal pragmatically with it. That is exactly what Mr Koopmans says, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Van Ojik is creating a sort of idea here that we could intervene there, that we could send a plane to a war zone to get those people out of the hands of Iraq or that we could open up the Iraqi prisons. This is about accepting the sovereignty of a country which, unfortunately, considers that the VVD also suffers the death penalty, but it is. Those people have chosen to commit their horrible crimes there and also in a country where that death penalty takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	In the end, the only question is whether the VVD Group is prepared to accept that Dutch citizens will be tried in a country where they face a real risk of receiving the death penalty. If that is the case, then you cannot keep saying: we are against the death penalty. That's really, really weird. The death penalty is an irrevocable thing. You can't be a little against that or a little against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	It is quite clear: the VVD is against the death penalty, but we are also in favour of recognising that there are people in a country where they have committed these horrible crimes and where the death penalty exists. We still do not think it is right for the death penalty to exist there, but we do accept the reality. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'm also going to try to untangle this theorem of the VVD a bit. Would the VVD agree that, for example, in Saudi Arabia, a Dutch citizen is being put to death because he is an atheist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	This is a kind of line that is not at all related to the foregoing. We are talking here about Syrians, about Dutch people who have gone to Syria or Iraq, have joined ISIS and committed horrible crimes and done the most horrible things. They have gone there knowingly and are possibly now or later in the hands of a country, where they have gone voluntarily, where they can receive the death penalty. Of course, that has nothing to do with the situation that Mr Sjoerdsma is now referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	I understand Mr Koopmans' inconvenience. He has been a diplomat for a long time and he knows how important it is that, if you have a general principle, that should apply universally, and he knows how important it is that, if you endorse treaties, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the protocols associated with it, there are no exceptions. So I understand his inconvenience. But my example does, of course, have a link with what Mr Koopmans is saying. That link is that this VVD minister cannot go to Saudi Arabia, Indonesia or other countries that have the death penalty, which recognizes sovereignty, Mr Koopmans, to say that it can no longer do so, because they say to him: you can find it, but in our country we have the death penalty for crimes such as atheism and a certain sexual preference, and you have accepted the death penalty in Iraq, so you are not against it in general, but only if it suits you. Should we conclude that the VVD is against the death penalty, unless it suits them well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think that in a situation of horrible terrorism and genocide, it is very inappropriate to talk about 'good outcome'. I think we need to be very clear. The VVD is against the death penalty, here and abroad. But we know there are terrorists. They went to Syria and Iraq, countries where the death penalty exists. They have committed horrible crimes and will be tried there. That is the reality. It's not about the choice to protect those people. They are there in those countries. They did. Let us accept reality. It would be good if Mr Sjoerdsma did the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	This is a repeat of what Mr Koopmans said earlier...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yeah, that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u33	...but it's not really an answer to the question I asked. I think my question was quite clear. Does the VVD agree with me in this way, Madam President; perhaps we will get an answer on the general principle that in the Netherlands there is no death penalty, that the Netherlands is against the death penalty and that the Netherlands is fighting the death penalty all over the world, in full? Does the VVD endorse that principle, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u34	In my own words: the VVD is against the death penalty in the Netherlands and in the world. The VVD is also fighting the death penalty in the world. But it is quite clear that if people consciously go to countries where the death penalty exists and commit the most horrible terrorist crimes, they will then surrender to such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u35	This is another rerun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u36	That is not our choice; that is their choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u37	ISIS, that horrible organization, also applies this kind of techniques. They decapitate people, just like another ally of the VVD, Saudi Arabia, does. Mr Koopmans supports this line, but this is not a cabinet policy at all. I would like a response to that. Are you going to make a proposal that goes against your own minister's policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u38	I think this was discussed last week in the debate on jihadgoers and it will be dealt with in the Justice budget next week. The VVD already made its position clear last week. It is not that the VVD position will always be the cabinet position. Definitely not. For that we have a coalition and for that we have other things. But the VVD is in a clear position. I've just repeated it several times. I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u39	So the VVD distanced itself from its own minister and cabinet policy. The VVD closes its eyes to justice in a country like Iraq. You know, Iraq: illegal intervention is in ruins, justice is not exactly fair. And, three, the VVD says purely out of selfishness: Iraq, solve this, even if it is our citizens. The VVD says that without a real plan, without anything being realistic. That's a little... Yeah, don't you feel a little embarrassed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u40	That's about four questions, but let me give you one answer. The VVD is against the death penalty in the Netherlands and abroad, but terrorists who go to a country like Iraq to commit horrific crimes there surrender to the possibility that they will be tried locally in a system where the death penalty also exists. That is realism, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck to the need for realism, and I would have liked to say it once again, and a forward-looking foreign policy, a comprehensive policy that brings together all the elements of the policy, including our EU policy, our development cooperation policy and all the other aspects of the policy, because we have to stand up for the priorities I mentioned. The state of the world today also shows that this is necessary, those priorities and that focus. Fortunately, a lot of things go well in the world. Despite the horrible wars we have just talked about, there are fewer deaths of war in this time than in the past. Many diseases are now being combated. There's more education around the world. There's more prosperity in the whole world. Of course, that's very good business. One aspect is that we see that China is also becoming more prosperous. That's very good for the Chinese, and we'd like to give it to them. But that country also comes up with a very assertive Chinese policy. We've talked about that before. The VVD also launched a China strategy six months ago. We are aware of how China acts in the world. That can also have consequences for the world order. That world order needs maintenance. Otherwise, to call the American author Robert Kagan the jungle grows back. That is why we must take action. Because there are also a lot of bad developments going on besides what I just mentioned. I shall of course mention those wars in the Middle East. The situation in Iran has already been mentioned. I call the aggressive acts and the threat of building nuclear weapons. I also mention Russia: the continuing aggression in Ukraine, the spurring of a new nuclear arms race and, of course, the Russian position in the horrible MH17 tragedy. I also mention Turkey with the illegal invasion of Syria and many other bad deeds by President Erdogan. I also mention the crisis in Venezuela, which affects our kingdom. But abroad also comes to the Netherlands and can also undermine confidence in society in the Netherlands. I mention the pressure on the diaspora felt in the Netherlands. I would like to mention the situation of the Uighurs in the Netherlands, which is being put under pressure by China. I also mention the online influence that we get from certain countries with the intention of affecting our democracy. That is why we need a strong Dutch and European foreign policy and we need to join forces in the fields of security, migration control, trade and climate. We must combine these forces at European level. But at the same time there is also the Brexit and there is European division. That makes that powerful sound weaker. Then the solution is not more federalism, as some advocate, but rather majority decision-making, but rather focus on those core tasks that I mentioned. But we must also be careful not to divide the Netherlands. I would just like to mention the threat of non-ratification of a trade agreement with Canada. With Canada! What better friends can you come up with? And also this division by all the criticism we have here of all the abuses throughout the world. We need to focus, focus on our security, on that national identity and values and on our jobs. Then I'm gonna move on to the point of security. That's what's most important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u43	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u44	Security is our primary concern. NATO is our most important instrument. We are celebrating 70 years of NATO, and we hope that we can celebrate it very often with larger numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u45	That was a nice line indeed. I wouldn't have missed that one! My question concerns Mr Koopmans' appeal not to be divided. Because, frankly, when it comes to foreign policy, I see a coalition that is almost divided on all major issues. We just talked about the death penalty; that's quite a lot. Are we or are we not going to bring back ISIS fighters? Are we or are we not going to have accession negotiations with... You have heard enough examples, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u46	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u47	So all major foreign policy issues are divided. Then there is a representative of the largest government party, who calls the agreement with Canada something that is very divided. Yes, perhaps the coalition and the opposition, but I can mention ten things that the coalition is deeply divided about. What will Mr Koopmans do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u48	Of course, we are all different parties here with different opinions. I think that, despite the differences that certainly exist between the different coalition parties, it is a good example that we are trying to find as much unity as possible. Is that always easy? No. That's why we're different parties. It would be very nice if Mr Van Ojik and others would join the idea: let us try to stand up together for the core Dutch interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u50	I would like to think about that if you do not mind, Mr Koopmans, or if Mr Koopmans does not mind. But I would say to Mr Koopmans: we have just talked about whether or not to bring back the children of IS fighters. That is a very big social issue at the moment. What does the Cabinet do? In order to mask the division in the coalition, it is an appeal against a judge's ruling, which means that we are going to go into another period of uncertainty on this point. For example, I can mention a lot of examples where the coalition comes to nothing and where this minister is being maneuvered into a very difficult position because the coalition is highly divided. I would like to ask Mr Koopmans once again: what is he doing? Because you can always keep your own story for your own supporters, about the death penalty, about IS fighters, about the Balkans, about it all. But as a member of the coalition, you have to take responsibility and compromise. What is he going to do to compromise on the issue of recovering IS children and perhaps their mothers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u51	I am very pleased that Mr Van Ojik says: you must compromise as a member of a coalition and take responsibility. I think we are all looking forward to the moment that GroenLinks is going to do the same. We must, of course, be able to reach a common platform with all the different opinions we have. That does not mean that I will be able or unwilling to take away my esteemed and beloved colleagues from other parties within the coalition. No, they do. But we can work together to bring out a common position and to give it to the cabinet. We have many beautiful examples of that. I am not going to praise the past few years, but it is clear: yes, we have different opinions, but we are working very clearly together. It would be a credit to Mr Van Ojik if he said: I also want to take responsibility, I also want to participate. I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u52	Finally, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u53	We do so on many points, and Mr Koopmans knows that very well. What matters is that Mr Koopmans here does nothing but repeat the well-known VVD position on a number of points and says: it is a pity that we are so divided. And then he mentions a few examples in which the coalition and the opposition stand against each other. I would say: tackle the division in one's own coalition, so that we are not paralyzed on some very important foreign policy issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u54	Maybe I can reassure Mr Van Ojik: even if you ever belong to the coalition, you can still have your own opinion. It is good to ventilate that opinion, but at the same time you also have the responsibility to try to cooperate as much as possible. I think Mr Van Ojik just said that, so that's nice. That doesn't change the fact that you still have your own opinion. I'm sure I'll give them to my colleagues in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u56	I don't really know where to start with Mr Koopmans and his views on division, who are actually holding the whole debate hostage. But to the point. As Mr Van Ojik said, there is so much disagreement in the coalition that this minister is actually being paralyzed. We have just seen a sample of that. I would like to ask Mr Koopmans a few questions about his contribution. One. He recognizes with many of us the danger of a nuclear arms race. Would he at least fight with the left-wing parties against the modernisation of nuclear weapons such as those currently taking place in the United States and Russia? Would he like to speak against it and call on the Minister to take a stand on it in NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u57	First, about the first part of what Mrs Ploumen just said. What I have advocated is that we, the Netherlands, have as much unity as possible. That also means that we should be a reliable partner in the world. This also means that, for example, when we negotiate a trade agreement with Canada, we show ourselves to be a reliable partner and not just a few moments later we take a different position. That unity, that reputation of reliability, that's what we have to stand for. The second part of what Mrs Ploumen said was about nuclear weapons policy. Nuclear weapons are very nasty weapons, but since they are there, they are needed to keep us safe. That also means they have to be up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u58	My view of unity is not that it is the unity defined by one party. I would like to give Mr Koopmans the following, and he should know that. All embassies in The Hague are watching and reading along. This morning, during the first quarter of the debate, they were able to see how strongly the coalition is divided and how complicated it is for a minister to come out in a united position. So I would like to say to Mr Koopmans: fine if he wants to cherish the division, but it is absolutely not in the interests of the Netherlands. A realistic foreign policy that he advocates is a foreign policy that is caught by the outside world. That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u59	Then I would say: one of the starting elements is that you hold the position you have, if the circumstances have not changed. This applies, among other things, to foreign countries, for example, to the treaty I was just talking about. I would also like to say once again that, fortunately, we have different opinions, but we also have a common platform. We're working very hard on that and that's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u60	I would like to take a closer look with the VVD at where they stand when it comes to recovering IS children and IS parents. Mrs Yeşilgöz, on behalf of the VVD Group, I assume, said that we do not want the children back and we certainly do not want those parents. Well, there was a judge who said on Monday, "You've got to get those kids back, and maybe the mothers will be, too." I understand the cabinet appealed to that. Then I don't understand: why don't you just tell this foreign minister that he shouldn't be talking to the Americans about possibly getting those kids back? Because that implies that the cabinet might want to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u61	What my VVD colleague, Mrs Yeşilgöz, has said is the VVD position. That's my point of view, too. That's what we say all the time. It is a fact that there is a court ruling that is extremely frustrating. That is why it is a good thing that appeals are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u62	Yes, but in my view it would not be a good thing for the VVD group that the Foreign Minister is already talking to the US Ambassador about American aid in the possible recovery of those children and their mothers. If you've appealed against the basic decision, don't you have to start at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u63	The VVD doesn't want these people back. The VVD naturally respects the rule of law, but the VVD does not want these people back. That is the policy line to be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u64	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u65	Then I suggest that you just say to the Foreign Minister: stop talking to the United States ambassador about possibly getting those people back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u66	I like to use my own words, but the VVD doesn't want these people back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u68	I was just celebrating 70 years of NATO. Of course, American President Trump has done some very unpredictable things. This sometimes also harms NATO, but much more important are the actions of Turkey....................................................................................................................................................................................................... But President Macron of France was wrong when he last used very big words about the state of NATO, because NATO is and remains essential. Only together with the United States are we in Europe strong enough to protect ourselves from the threats from Russia and from a lot of other angles. The nuclear umbrella that we have and which protects us is and remains essential. That is why we are against all unilateral steps for disarmament and for the non-upgrading of weapons. We need to be safe and safe. We must therefore strengthen NATO and respond to Russia's new challenges, but also to the strategic threats from China. That is why we need to cooperate more with similar countries such as Japan and Australia, and we also need to invest more in Defence. Now that Turkey is buying missiles and defence systems from Russia, we must take action within NATO. That is why it is right that Turkey should now be expelled from the F-35 programme. The VVD asked the cabinet earlier to investigate what EU money flows are now coming to Turkey. The cabinet has been working on that. The VVD continues to say that we must use these funds as much politically as possible to address Turkey on its responsibility. Mr. Chairman. Another point is technology. Technology brings a lot of good things, but it also ensures that means of violence are easier, cheaper and available to more people. So we are no longer just talking about states that are talking about nuclear bombs, but also about new forms of weapons of mass destruction for other organisations and for countless people. The VVD has received a motion here, I thought supported by almost the entire Chamber, which said: let the Netherlands play a pioneering role in driving international regulation of the production and use of this kind of thing and its protection against it. I'm asking the Minister what's going on with that. He's announced he's going to organize a conference. I'm asking about the details. What proposals will he make there? I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u69	I hardly ever agree with the French President Macron, but I do now, namely that NATO is brain dead. I hear you telling a very enthusiastic story about NATO. It would improve our safety. Can Mr Koopmans tell me what is good about NATO ally Turkey who aggressively invades another country? Can Mr Koopmans tell me what is good about NATO, which no longer focuses on our defences, but is also engaged in permanent wars in the Middle East, making the world more unsafe and unstable? Why does the VVD put the head in the sand with regard to our safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u70	I will start with the first question because otherwise we will be standing here for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u71	I would like to appeal to everyone to keep the interruptions short. Entire speeches are made with introductions. This applies not only to you, Mrs Karabulut, but to all foreign speakers I have noticed. Mr Van Helvert has not yet done so, but I know him. Mr Koopmans is now going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u72	I have just spoken very clearly and very critically about Turkey's wrongdoings. I think it is rare for Mrs Karabulut and I to really agree. However, we agree on the criticism of Turkey's illegal actions. Let's just say that for once. NATO is essential to keep us safe. It is the strongest alliance in world history. It's what gives us protection from outside threats. We must not weaken NATO as the Socialist Party always wishes, or perhaps it wants us to leave it. I don't know what the current position is. We must cherish NATO, and we must strengthen it. If there are problems there, and there are problems, I have just appointed them myself, then we have to deal with them. We shouldn't, as the SP keeps saying, cut defense, run away and be critical of everything. No, you have to deal with it, you have to do things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u73	The answers can also be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u74	I don't understand. Either Mr Koopmans doesn't understand or he doesn't mean what he's saying. Mr Koopmans boasts that he stands for our safety. He uses a little nationalistic trumpian sauce for that, but that's okay. That's your style. That's Mr. Koopmans' style. What Mr Koopmans is doing above all is not defending our security, but acting as Lamme Goedezak of the United States and NATO, who are currently bringing us with the NATO alliance Turkey, but also with their assertive actions, insecurity worldwide, rather than the security that Mr Koopmans is suggesting. I find it rather shortsighted that you are not even willing to think with me and others about an alternative security architecture. NATO is just passing through right now. So I think it's rather shortsighted that you're not even ready to think with me and others about an alternative security architecture, because that NATO is just passing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u75	Let us have a moment with Mrs Karabulut to think about the alternative security architecture that she proposes, for example on unilateral disarmament. Okay, then what happens? So we say no more NATO nuclear umbrella. Well, then only our enemies have nuclear weapons. Is that a better contribution to our security? Let's rethink that security architecture of the Socialist Party. Which means we don't send troops or take any more action to deal with terrorists. I call it the fact that Al-Baghdadi, the leader of ISIS, is now dead. We should celebrate, and we should be grateful to the Americans for that, because that is a good thing. And yes, things are going wrong, but we need to think about how we're safe. We are safe if we invest in defence, if we cherish our alliances and if we strengthen NATO. We are not safe if, as the Socialist Party wants, we no longer invest in defence...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u76	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u77	...if we cut back, if we walk out of NATO and only give nuclear weapons to our enemies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mrs Karabulut, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u79	I can only hear the VVD defending the interests of the military-industrial complex. I hear the VVD here arguing for the dangerous nuclear plans of the US, and with that Russia too. I hear the VVD pleading for another 30 years of permanent presence in the Middle East. This is all at the expense of our security, of our social security, but also at the expense of those who often have to deal with these wars and with that violence. And I just find it extremely regrettable and shortsighted that the VVD does not even show the willingness to seriously consider alternatives to break this spiral of violence and militarisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr President, do you know what is unfortunate? It's too bad if there's a party that says we have to think about something, but then says: we shouldn't really do anything. The Socialist Party has always said: any form of action for our security, in the form of sending missions, in the form of sending F-16s to bomb terrorists, in the form of any action to actively protect our security, we must fail. The VVD stands for investing in our security; we are very clear about that. That means making alliances, that means taking action, that means taking responsibility, and that also means running the risk. And then something could go wrong. But you have to protect our safety. You can't protect it by just holding up a banner and saying, "I don't agree anymore."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u81	Well, I'll give Mrs Karabulut a brief opportunity for a brief response. I would suggest that Mr Koopmans continue his speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u82	I do not go into all the factual inaccuracies at all. I only note that the VVD is very good at defending the interests of the shareholders of Corendon and Unilever, in defending the interests of even countries such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia because of trade. I also note that the VVD does not want to think about everything that has brought us over the past few decades because of the wars in the Middle East: permanent warfare, more terrorism and more insecurity. And then the VVD here calls out all kinds of falsehoods about my party. I note that this is hollow rhetoric from the VVD, which says to stand up for our safety. In this way, the world will only become more unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u83	I notice that the SP doesn't want to do anything to protect us from terrorists beyond our borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u84	I would say, please continue with your speech. You guys are finding out who's finding out what's going on. I think this has changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u85	But sometimes it's important to name what it's really about, Mr. Chairman. What it's really about is our safety. This is not about protesting, painting banners and everything against his...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u86	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u87	... but this is about performance. It is good that we act and that we dare to do things. It's a good thing we're not just saying we're against something. No, it's good that we do things to keep people in Holland safe. That is why we must also focus on this ring around Europe of unstable countries and invest heavily in the diplomatic presence on those borders of Europe, on the sources of terrorism and on those sources of human trafficking, such as in North Africa and the Middle East. Can we not make a little more use of this in the budget? I will come later with Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 with an amendment to the budget to make more use of it. Mr. Chairman. We also need to look around the world. Iran has already been mentioned. We must prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons, and at the same time we must be firm on Iran's aggression, even here in the Netherlands. We need to be tough on people who get killed and everything else, like supporting terrorism in the region. We must also pay attention to Chinese ambitions on the technological front. There must be diplomatic attention to that. To be brief, we also need to look at our essential economic interests in geopolitical terms and keep the critical infrastructure and data of Dutch people in trusted hands. I come to the second priority I mentioned: the Netherlands must be and remain the Netherlands. We are talking about immigration, our fundamental values, our open culture and our own culture. It is, once again, about our special culture. We must be open to all people of all origins who want to embrace our values and laws, of many different beliefs. But those who reject Dutch society do not belong here. Those borders and our borders must be respected. In the area of migration, I mention demographic developments in Africa and the Middle East. There are very significant developments in this area, which means that we must be very strict in order to prevent illegal migration. Because in the end, it threatens what we stand for. This means, among other things, that we must oblige countries receiving Dutch or European development aid to also take effective measures to combat illegal migration. We have often discussed the plan of my former colleague, Mr Azmani, to conclude a refugee deal. That is what has happened to Turkey. There must be more deals like this, with North and West Africa. We need to make a lasting commitment to this. I also mention the diasporas. We must oppose any attempt to divide the Dutch who are here with a ethnicity from somewhere else and to involve them in political battles over conflicts in that other country. I would like to mention, for example, the recent conflicts concerning Turkey. We must also oppose attempts at intimidation. I mentioned it: the Uighurs in the Netherlands who are being put under pressure. We must also stand up for international law and human rights. We have just discussed this extensively, so I'll keep it a little shorter now. The Netherlands must work for the international legal order. It is undermined by other states, but also by terrorists and human smugglers. That is why we must work for those essential rules of international policy. I refer to genocide. If Mrs Ploumen, or if you'll allow me, I'll go on. For I believe that, with the support of Mrs Ploumen, a motion has been adopted in which I suggested asking the cabinet to take action on Myanmar. I asked the Cabinet to investigate a court case before the International Court of Justice on all the noises of genocide against the rohingyas there. I ask the Minister, now that the Gambia has actually started such a case on genocide against Myanmar last Monday, where the Netherlands stands. Will the Netherlands join us? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this point, I said earlier that I would like to table an amendment with Mr Sjoerdsma to improve safety. This is also about targeted support for human rights in those posts where the problems are greatest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u88	I support Mr Koopmans' appeal to the cabinet to join the Gambia when it comes to genocide in Myanmar. The Labour Party is behind that. The Labour Party also supported Mr Koopmans' motion. It is a pity, however, that it took the VVD some time before they realized that action had to be taken in Myanmar, because many motions by others in this house were not supported by the VVD. I would like to return to the international legal order. Mr Koopmans said that the Netherlands is right in favour of this. He's right. Not only do we feel that in a moral sense, but it is also stated in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u89	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u90	The question is: how does that plea for the international legal order relate to the fact that the VVD accepts that the death penalty is pronounced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mr President, I would like to answer this, but I am sure you will say: you are repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u92	I was just about to say that we just had that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u93	We have had a discussion, but we have not had a clear answer. I note that Mr Koopmans, on the one hand, wants to stand up for the international legal order. On the other hand, we believe that the death penalty is acceptable within that international legal order. In my understanding of the international legal order, that does not go together. I note that this can seem to go hand in hand with the concept of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr President, I shall repeat myself...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u95	Well, I'd rather not. You may respond briefly and then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u96	Then I refer to the previous part of the Acts, when it came to this. We stand for the international legal order. The death penalty has no place in that. But people who choose to go to a country to do horrible things there, such as the terrorism of ISIS, have chosen and are under the control of another country...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u97	That's a repeat, for the third and fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u98	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u100	I'm trying to give Mrs Ploumen the clarity she's asking for. But let me get on with it. Maybe it's okay if she takes another look at what we've said about this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u102	The VVD also says that the European Union should be a primary instrument for our human rights issues. That is why we ask the European Union to invest in strong external borders and to address other countries in human rights situations on behalf of the Netherlands. That is a lot more effective and much more efficient, and that also prevents the Netherlands from being alone all the time because we are the most critical. No matter how right that criticism is, we have to do it together. The Netherlands will soon become a member of the Human Rights Council. It has been said before: the Human Rights Council is a very problematic institution, but can sometimes contribute to the improvement of human rights situations. You can at least have the discussion there. But then it must be, as I say in the direction of the cabinet, a reluctant council that focuses on fundamental violations and shows much more balance, rather than the enormous imbalance in convictions that is now there. Mr De Roon also mentioned this. Some get convicted and others don't. It can't be like that. Nor should there be any envoys who are going to criticize the Netherlands for the burqa ban. Is that really justified criticism? Is that even what it's about? Of course, it can't be. I ask the Minister what he wants to do about it. I would like to say the following on the issue of human rights. Mr Van Helvert and I tabled a motion last year to stop the cabinet from supporting human rights projects in countries with a well-functioning rule of law. I understand from the answer to the questions by the cabinet that this motion was only partially carried out. I ask the Cabinet to do more and I ask the Minister if he can confirm that. Then there is a very important third priority: jobs and prosperity. Are you okay, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u103	A baby just tripped in the public gallery, but it went well. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you're okay. Our foreign policy must also be about jobs and prosperity. Those jobs and prosperity are threatened, including by the Brexit. That's a very bad thing. Politically and economically, that is a bad thing. China's economic policy can also be a threat to Dutch SMEs and to the jobs of the Netherlands. If all products are dumped here and products are unsafe, then it is also bad for consumers. At the same time, as the Netherlands, we are very much in favour of being a hub of the world economy where a lot of trade can take place, especially with China. We must therefore continue to commit ourselves to this. We must be against protectionism and trade wars, but for the better "functioning" of the World Trade Organisation. We have also tabled a number of motions on this in the past. I'm asking the Minister what's going on with that. We have said, for example, that China should no longer be called a developing country within the World Trade Organisation. I understand that China is stopping it from being a developing country anymore. I think that, even for China's own prestige, is a weakness. I ask the cabinet to continue to press for China to no longer benefit from these trade advantages because it pretends to be a developing country. We must also continue to fight unfair competition; that was another motion. We've asked the Cabinet to identify measures. I believe that the cabinet will come back with a complete overview next May. I'm asking the Minister what's going on with that. At the same time, we must maintain our essential economic infrastructure. Rotterdam, Schiphol, our knowledge networks: there is so much beauty. And we must fight unfair foreign competition and economic espionage. In the meantime, of course, we must continue to actively support our entrepreneurs in expanding abroad. This cabinet strengthens all economic diplomacy in this area, and that is very nice. Also beautiful are the many trade missions that are now there; we always want more. We also support the government's policy to support SMEs in handling the Brexit. I keep thinking about the Minister's beautiful muppet. But it is, of course, about jobs and the well-being of our business environment. Mr. Chairman. Then we want targeted diplomacy to bring companies to the Netherlands. Sorry, chairman, I'm stuck with the thought of that muppet, the Brexitmuppet. That's why. I am almost there, but not after I have spoken about the great importance of Dutch people abroad. The VVD stands for Dutch people abroad and wants to support them in every way possible. Then I think especially of the most vulnerable. These are boys and girls who are transported abroad from the Netherlands to be forced to marry out there, or who are left there. Those are horrible practices. Last year there were 20% more reports of this kind of horrible cases than in 2017. It is good that the cabinet is already working on this, but I am asking the Minister for more consular help. I ask him: can more money be specifically identified within the budget to combat this type of practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u105	You're almost done, so I'd say finish your contribution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u106	I'm gonna go a little over my time, but that's gonna go off my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u107	Oh, that's good to know, too. You've made up 20 minutes, but that's okay. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u108	A quick question. Good thing Mr Koopman's attention is for vulnerable Dutch children abroad. He mentions an example of this. I think it would be a good idea if we called on the Minister together to be alert and avoid such practices. There are also vulnerable children completely out of their debt in camps in former IS area. They were born there. They are children of Dutch nationality. They have not asked for their parents to commit terrible acts. Does Mr Koopmans agree with me that the Dutch government should also take responsibility for these children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u109	It is clear that these children have fallen victim to the horrible choice of their parents. But those parents need to stay there. They don't want the VVD here. The kids are with their parents. It's horrible, it's tragic, but it is. I'm gonna move on to my last piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u110	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. The VVD does not want diaspora politics, just as we do not want other countries to have diaspora politics here. Of course, we want very good contacts with the Dutch abroad through our embassies and our consulates. Last year, the VVD tabled a number of motions, which I did together with Mr Sjoerdsma, in order to further improve and digitise consular services. On both requests, we are now in the Chamber investigating the improvement of all kinds of consular services. In the short term, we want to learn lessons from this. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying something about the Ministry. From this point of view, I would like to thank the diplomats and the officials of the Ministry, whom we here from the Chamber ask so many questions through the Minister, who sometimes make life difficult, for their warm commitment. That's something they do. A lot of people move in front of it and move around all the time. I think that as a Chamber we may also occasionally say 'thank you for that huge effort'. We realize as a chamber that we don't always make life easy for these people. Then it is important that if these people are in The Hague, they have a good workplace. I ask the Minister once again what is going on with these workplaces here at the Ministry. Are you feeling better now? Mr. Chairman. Foreign policy is not an end in itself. We do not have a foreign policy to give our opinion on foreign affairs, but we are talking about keeping our country safe, keeping our country the Netherlands and protecting our prosperity and jobs. Foreign policy serves that purpose. So let us also continue to focus on the things that have priority and on serving the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u112	Brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u113	As a small country, we also benefit from a world order based on international law. Does Mr Koopmans agree with me that we should address those countries which are violating international law and that we should try to undo that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr. Koopmans. This was a short question, so a short answer please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u115	The VVD is for international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u116	Could Mr Koopmans say something about two major violations at the moment, firstly, the war in Saudi Arabia in Yemen, where Western bombs kill children and starve them, and secondly, the occupation of Palestine by Israel?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u117	The VVD is against violations of international law. The VVD, at least I, has said a lot of things here with Mrs Karabulut about the war in Yemen. I'm not gonna repeat them all. The VVD is in favour of the two-state solution and the VVD wants an end to the conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u118	That is all very nice to hear, but what concrete steps does the VVD intend to take towards Saudi Arabia and towards Israel to undo these violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u119	We've already taken a lot of steps there. The VVD has also supported the current enormous restrictions on arms exports. Dutch weapons must not be used in the conflict. That's very clear. Furthermore, we have said a lot of things about this, but I see the President looking, so I shall confine myself to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u120	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u121	Thank you, Mr President. We have had the Rutte III cabinet for two years now, so I actually wanted to use this budget procedure to draw up a cautious interim balance sheet. It should be pointed out that it is a difficult period for foreign policy. There is an American president who does not care about his allies, there is a new Russian threat, quite different from the Cold War, of course, but refined and sometimes quite successful, there is for the first time in history a Member State that leaves the EU and there are a number of others in the EU who demonstrately turn away from common values. There is a Turkish NATO partner who violates human rights in his own country, regularly makes allies for rotten fish and builds it with Russia and then, of course, we have an uncomfortable relationship with China, a system rival. That country is trying to control us economically, gaining influence worldwide and stands in its own country and everywhere else for values that are and must remain foreign to us. This is not an easy time for targeted foreign policy. But the need to rethink this policy, the urgency of making choices in it and the need for creativity to enter into new alliances may be greater than ever before. I think that the cabinet in general and this minister in particular show too little urgency. And I've been wondering why. First of all, I think that's because the Minister doesn't show a vision. While rulers like Kaag, Rutte and Hoekstra regularly associate us with their view of the world, this minister is too often in pragmatism. If the Chamber wants something from him, he always knows exactly what is feasible and what is not. We have not yet been able to catch him on a broader view of changing international relations. "Don't take that shit out of me, Minister," I'd like to say. I understand that you were shocked by the reactions when last summer's covert recordings turned out to have been made of, let me say, "small-minded" statements about national individuality. But I say it's time for a rematch. Don't crawl into your shell, but tell us where you stand and what you want, Minister. That is good for the debate, lays a foundation under the Dutch attitude in international consultation and gives an impetus to the impact of international diplomacy. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to my second observation. What doesn't help is that the Minister doesn't always appreciate the wishes of the Chamber. From the coalition, it's called "apathetic." I myself used the words'stubborn' and 'inflexible' for that. I would like to explain those words here, because that is the way it should be, I think. Why on earth needed a motion to convince the Minister that after the recent Turkish invasion of Northern Syria he really had to be present in person at the Foreign Affairs Council? Why, after general criticism from all sides of parliament, was it impossible for the minister to admit that the cabinet had put the queen in a painful situation by having her publicly consulted with the man responsible for the murder less than a year after the horrific murder of Khashoggi? A motion from the Chamber was needed for this too. And why did the Chamber have to force the Minister by motion to do his homework again, because it was found from left to right that China's note on human rights was hopelessly inadequate? A well-adjusted political antenna and a large amount of verbal persuasion are perhaps the most important instruments of effective diplomacy. I hope we will see more of that in the near future. Mr. Chairman. I come to my third point. It was just about the interruptions: the coalition is hopelessly divided and does nothing to put an end to that division. Are we or are we not going to bring back the children of IS fighters? What do we do with the warriors themselves? The differences in this respect paralyze the coalition. We now see that again in the appeal. Especially don't move. One is more focused on one's own voter than on a compromise. In other essential areas of foreign policy, too, divisions are paralysed. There were three questions for military assistance this summer: in the Straits of Hormuz, in Syria and in Mali. I have not yet heard an answer to any of these three questions, either positive or negative. Everywhere, the division in the coalition is a reason to move things forward, do nothing or say no. Think of the issue of starting accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania and participating in an initiative by France and Germany to distribute refugees more fairly among the EU Member States. The examples are for picking up. As I said, I would like to believe that it is difficult to set prices in international relations at this particular moment. It's not so crazy that sometimes we're looking, but the question is, is there a course? I think that we can do better: a clearer vision, better listening to what the Chamber wants, tackling division in the coalition. I'm very curious how the Minister sees this. The last revision of foreign policy took place in 1995, almost 25 years ago under then Foreign Minister Hans van Mierlo. Is the Foreign Affairs policy still broadly in line with international developments? That was the key question at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u123	This review of foreign policy produced interesting new insights. Policy changes and organisational adjustments, more attention to conflict management, for example, more European Union because NATO's importance decreased, even then. Approaching France, now also up-to-date. The Dutch self-interest is more central, that's what's good these days. The recalibrate gave new impetus and direction, it nurtured the debate and it brought the policy up to date. You should do something like that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u124	I'll take a look. This is the first part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u125	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I'll go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u126	I shall go to Mr Van Helvert, who has not asked any questions so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u127	A word about the division in the coalition as my colleague Mr Van Ojik called it, because I am in that coalition. Indeed, I notice that it is quite spicy to come to a comparison with four parties. To what extent does GroenLinks think that on difficult dossiers you should be prepared to seek a compromise and put your own position on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u128	In fact, I appeal to the Minister, we are discussing this with the Minister, but on this point also to the coalition to try to reach a compromise on these kinds of issues where there is, of course, a difference of opinion. That's what you do with all the other things: with nitrogen approach or how fast you can drive or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'm afraid Mr Van Helvert means something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u130	Oh. Then I guess I didn't get him right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u131	Nitrogen is also such a point, but I understand that Mr Van Ojik says that you must be prepared to move on to difficult things. I can imagine that, but I do have one more question. Why was it when we sat at the table to start this difficult coalition...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u132	I saw him coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u133	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u134	...in order to get together difficult things, why did GroenLinks walk away from the negotiating table at one of the first difficult dossiers? Why was it GroenLinks who said first: no, we find this too difficult, we do not participate in this, we are not prepared to move here? There were still a lot of difficult files to come up with. Why did GroenLinks do that then, and why does GroenLinks read us, the coalition, which, I say quite honestly, has taken on that difficult task now that we need to be more united?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yes, Mr. Van Ojik. I knew this was coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u136	Yeah, I had such a vague suspicion that this might come. To be honest, however, what Mr Van Helvert says is not entirely correct. Mr Van Helvert knows that GroenLinks has been negotiating with three parties for two months. Of these three parties you can at least say that two of those parties were quite far from us in terms of content and ideological. We have done our utmost to reach a compromise in a very colourful coalition, in which all three parties, one more than the other, were farther away from us than you would consider desirable in a coalition. We tried until the very last moment. Four parties are responsible for the failure to do so. The four parties that were at the table at that time are responsible for this. We were one of those four parties, and I take that responsibility, too. Nor do I say to Mr Van Helvert or to anyone else that at all costs you must agree with everything. I hope that the CDA absolutely does not agree with the position of the VVD when it comes to the death penalty, for example. I would like to call on Mr Van Helvert to stick firmly to his principles on this point, but there are a lot of examples I have just mentioned where you can repeat your own position for your constituents all the time, but you owe it to Dutch foreign policy, Dutch security and Dutch prosperity to come to a compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u137	This is a very double answer. On the one hand, a lot of text is needed to hear why GroenLinks left first while we were still in the middle of the negotiations. Anyway, that's tricky, and maybe you weren't always there yourself, I don't know. Mr Van Ojik then calls on me to be divided on points with the VVD. We must therefore be divided in some areas, but not too much in others. I think that makes it difficult. I would like to ask GroenLinks the following. When GroenLinks says that she still needs to join a coalition, because she actually regrets that she ran away so quickly, I understand. Then perhaps there is an opening to get back to the table and reduce that division. Is GroenLinks willing to say: well, do I want to go back to the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u138	Are there any new formation negotiations going on that no one knows about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u139	I hear GroenLinks is sorry about running away too fast here, and I can imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u140	This could be another historic morning if it goes on like this. No, Mr. Chairman, I have to help Mr. Helvert out of the dream. I have mentioned a number of examples of long-term conflicts, whether they concern human rights in China, the accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania, or the recovery of IS children, where coalition parties do nothing but repeat their own views all the time. As a result, nothing happens and the people who are in those IS camps will suffer. I am not saying to Mr Van Helvert that he must abandon all his principles. I hope he will stick to his principle that he is against the death penalty, but I do not see how this coalition is trying to resolve some very long-lasting conflicts with each other. I notice that because, in my firm conviction, this is crippling on foreign policy. Yes, chairman, and then bring up the cabinet formation. Then I'll answer that. We've spent two months trying very hard to agree with the CDA. That's not easy, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u141	We also know the result. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u142	I won't start again with those negotiations where...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u143	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u144	... it didn't work out when GroenLinks was sitting at the table about the migration agenda and had a fundamental lower limit. Mr Van Ojik has already replied. I'd like to challenge him, because where does he see a problem? Look, you always have a coalition, of course. If Mr Van Ojik had been in the coalition, he would have had the same discussions. You have different points of view, but you can also come out. As an example, I would like to mention the Human Rights Fund, something that Mr Van Ojik and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wanted very much. We raised this with each other. That is an important achievement of this coalition, I thought. I would like to give Mr Van Ojik: use the space that might exist to work with the coalition and to forge coalitions. That is the beauty of democracy. I had previously expected an article that praised the space for working with the coalition, perhaps to the left and sometimes to the right. That space is there, and that space has also been found in recent debates. We have supported motions by GroenLinks and the Labour Party. So where is the problem, I ask Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u145	This is actually a call from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr Voordewind is right to say that on many points we support motions or put forward motions which get a majority vote from the coalition as well. But I have mentioned a number of examples of division in the coalition and I do not hear Mr Voordewind about that. These are not the smallest issues on the foreign policy agenda at the moment. This is about how we deal with children and warriors in Syria. That is about how we deal with Balkan countries, in this case North Macedonia and Albania, who long for a start... I have mentioned all these examples. Mr Voordewind does not go into that. He's making some kind of general appeal to me. Well, I'd love to support that. I would like to vote in favour of his motion on greater attention to human rights. I think he just needs to go into my examples as well. He doesn't have to, but I'd like to call him to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr Voordewind will be next.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u148	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u150	I shall refer again to the debate we have had on Turkey. I believe that's what you're saying in your article. In it, the opposition put forward a proposal to stop supplying military equipment to Turkey. Well, I thought this also got a majority with the support of the coalition. I thought the coalition also acted quite unitedly. I call sanctions, an arms embargo. Those are all the facts of this coalition. In my view, it indicates that cooperation with the coalition and the opposition is easy. So I would really like to call on you not to remain in the wings, but to continue constructively thinking along with the coalition to come up with concrete plans. And that there are sometimes plans that we think differently about: I fear that this is inevitable, even if you were in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u151	I take Mr Voordewind's appeal very seriously, of course. We've done that a lot over the past two years. There are many examples of this. I call on him to repeat his position not only for his own supporters, but also to try to find a solution that will ultimately benefit the people who we are all talking about and for whom we are all defending. I did not mean Mr Voordewind personally, Mr President. Frankly, that's my point. That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u152	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u153	I will not repeat the fine examples already mentioned by Mr Voordewind. Indeed, excellent results have been achieved. I would even say: more than under the previous cabinet. GroenLinks wasn't one of them either, but that doesn't matter. Mr Van Ojik actually said two things that I found interesting. A little earlier, he mentioned something of a duty to establish new alliances. He also said you shouldn't just speak for your own electorate. That actually brought me to a question at a point where the coalition fully agrees, but where it needs the opposition. And then it's about the trade agreement with Canada, about CETA, about showing that we can still work together, about showing that we understand what a compromise means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u154	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u155	Then my question to Mr Van Ojik is as follows. If he calls for cooperation, then I would say: here is the opportunity for Mr Van Ojik. Here is the opportunity not to preach for your own parish, but to see what a beautiful treaty lies there. It was signed by Mr Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u156	I do not know exactly what it means to me that Mr Ploumen of the PvdA has signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u157	Well, the left-wing partnership is important, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u158	Okay. Oh, yeah, I get that. I believe that the debate on the ratification of CETA will be on the Chamber's agenda very soon. Our spokesman will, of course, go into this in detail, but we do indeed have fundamental objections to this treaty. Mr Sjoerdsma knows these objections. We have indeed put it forward in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u159	But maybe that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u160	Not on CETA, because it is still under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u161	That is why I mentioned the example of the death penalty myself. I do not call on coalition parties to abandon all their principles and previous positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u162	No. Then it gets really boring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u163	I have mentioned a number of very specific foreign political dossiers, if you can describe them in this way. I have said that the division in the coalition leads to paralysis, or just a Dutch 'no' to get rid of it. I think this is wrong in cases where, in my opinion, progress needs to be made. But that does not mean that D66 and GroenLinks cannot think differently about CETA, or that we should all go after Mr Koopmans in the area of the death penalty. I hope not, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u164	That is, of course, the fascinating thing about Mr Van Ojik's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u165	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u166	He doesn't want to look at the results that have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u167	Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u168	Then I'm going to mention the children's pardon, just to see what Mr Van Ojik thought about that. He does not want to mention these results, but he does think that coalition parties should set aside all their points when it comes to important matters. But Mr Van Ojik is not prepared to do so when it comes to matters of interest to him. I would like to call on Mr Van Ojik: turn that call to us and make sure that you yourself respond to your own call. Now show that you can jump over your shadow, that you can see what sustainable trade is, and that you can work together and compromise. Because that is what I think your party leader, Mr Klaver, said in the General Political Reviews: not scoreboard journalism, not reviews, but sincere cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u169	Okay, clear. A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u170	It is striking: I make an appeal, including to Mr Sjoerdsma. He doesn't go into any of my examples. He talks first about CETA, about which we will have to have a debate in a few weeks' time, and then he calls it "children's pardon." I stood here the morning after the coalition agreement to express my joy at that agreement. He can check it out in the Acts if he wants to. So he's getting all kinds of stuff, calling on me to jump over my own shadow, which I'm willing to do every day, but he doesn't go into the points I mentioned. He is going to argue about this with Mr Koopmans on television, without any further progress being made two months ago. And now they're both at the Interrupt Microphone telling me to be accommodating. I'd say look at yourself! Let the two gentlemen standing here look at each other instead of me!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u171	I did not expect Mr Van Ojik to go into parliament as some kind of relationship intermediary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u172	I'd love to volunteer for that, because that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u173	But I'd like to tell him that that's better in a room's privacy rather than in front of the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u174	I'll take that tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u175	But I would like to say something to Mr Van Ojik. That's important. In this coalition, choices are made. Collaboration is taking place and decisions are being taken on improbably difficult proposals, whether on migration, child pardon or the problem of nitrogen. Each party has to jump over its own shadow and so does each party, with pain and sometimes with joy. But I find it easy for Mr Van Ojik to choose two of them. Let me get into one, because that's what he's asking. How to deal with IS fighters and IS children? We are passionately different about that! From our ideals and our understanding of security, including the VVD. But I can also tell you that there is no other European country, which has a policy line as Mr Van Ojik and I would like. And do you know why that is? Because it's fucking hard. We have orders to get out of there. We will, by the way, but without you. I call upon you to look at the other files I have mentioned. Let GroenLinks show the outstretched hand there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u176	I'd really like to respond. Indeed, I have just mentioned two examples: the opening of accession negotiations with two Western Balkan countries and the issue of the IS fighters. The financing of the Multiannual Financial Framework and the death penalty have now been added. There are quite a few of those issues. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma saying to me that I must also be prepared to compromise. But Mr Sjoerdsma also knows that there are many examples in which we have increased together with the coalition parties. I have mentioned a number of examples, but now I repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u177	I wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u178	I have mentioned a number of examples which I say are paralyzed by the fact that there is division within the coalition. And I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mr Koopmans, with a very different question, I assume?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u180	Yes, because I actually wanted to invite Mr Van Ojik to indicate himself what he has now reconsidered. He said just now: we have done a very long time about the last review. Has GroenLinks been rethinking things lately, for example in the area of security? GroenLinks was always very reluctant and did not want to invest in defence. Does GroenLinks want to invest in defence now? GroenLinks was very reluctant when it came to international trade, as part of foreign policy. Has GroenLinks reconsidered that now? Does she think otherwise now? GroenLinks was very critical of refugee deals to stop illegal migration. Did GroenLinks reconsider that? Does GroenLinks have any new thoughts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u181	The answer is yes. Perhaps the best example is the first point that Mr Koopmans mentioned, namely peace and security. As you may imagine, I have been with you for some time in GroenLinks and also in the parties that formed GroenLinks. If something has changed within GroenLinks over the years, it is thinking in terms of peace and security, the importance of peace operations and the importance of defence spending. We were a party that always cut billions on defense if you look at the passing on of our election program. Mr Koopmans will have noticed that this is no longer the case. So we also believe that there are a number of areas where you need to invest in defence. That was for my party a very big move we've made in the last ten years. I grant the VVD that they make such a move, perhaps occasionally the other way. Only, at the VVD I see a movement in a direction that I find very undesirable on a number of points. So the answer is yes. The answer is also yes where migration deals are concerned. We have always said that we are not against migration deals, provided they meet a number of conditions. I note that no migration deal has been concluded in recent years, despite what the government agreement says about it. If such a deal is made, we will look into whether it meets the conditions. We are not, in principle, opposed to concluding migration deals. We never were.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u182	I appreciate Mr Van Ojik's honest answer. But then let's make it clear. Is GroenLinks now in favour of investing in defence? Is GroenLinks now for new refugee deals? And not like, "We'll see if they get there." No, is GroenLinks for more refugee deals now? Is GroenLinks now in favour of economic diplomacy and more trade agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u183	Yes, GroenLinks is for more trade agreements. These trade agreements must, of course, comply with a number of social and environmental conditions. That's what we're all about. I agree with each other. GroenLinks is also in favour of making migration agreements. Just, of course, you can't say: would you like to sign off on a migration deal? For example, I am very much opposed to migration deals with Libya which are currently there and which mean that Dutch money will also send refugees back to camps in Libya where they are tortured and raped. I'm really against that kind of deal. I shall also sign this, unlike Mr Koopmans. But if I'm asked in general whether I'm for or against deals: well, I can't say that, because that depends on the content of the deal. I hope that this also applies to Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u184	You don't have to, but finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u185	There was a third element I was hoping for...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u186	That is always the disadvantage of a long interruption, because then people will no longer know exactly what has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u187	Trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u188	No, that was about investing in defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u189	Investing in defense, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u190	Does GroenLinks now positively want more money to go to defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u191	That's where we always have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u192	The defense budget just came in. Anyway, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u193	Mr Van Ojik says he's rethinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u194	I have just said that we have come a long way in terms of defence. From a party that has always been in favour of very rigorous cuts in defence, we are now a party that takes about the current level as its starting point. We have always said that it depends on the vision of the future of the armed forces or that it includes extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u195	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u196	Yeah, you see, the president thinks it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u197	I'm not talking about the content. I suggest you proceed, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u198	Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck with my suggestion that after 25 years we should look again at foreign policy. That is actually a bit in line with the discussion we have just had. I already said "we." I looked back at what that review actually did 25 years ago. I found that very interesting. This has resulted in a lot of new things at the time, some of which are still current and others a little less. I am therefore very curious to see how the Minister will react to this. Mr. Chairman. New themes will also come out much more urgently. I refer to the geopolitics and the impact of climate change. We talk about that a lot these days. I would like to make a few comments on this. The former Commander of the Armed Forces, Mr Middendorp, recently spoke in the European Parliament about climate change as the greatest game changer of this century. It is increasingly a question of national security, geopolitics and hence foreign policy. GroenLinks was very pleased with the Planetary Security Initiative launched by the Netherlands, by this cabinet and I think it was also the previous cabinet. So that's a compliment. That was a Dutch initiative. That has been put on the international agenda by the Netherlands, and that is very good. Plans for further knowledge building are now being developed. Can the minister give us a tip of the veil? In this context, I was surprised that the Netherlands did not participate in a German initiative to create a "Now it has to be in English "Group of Friends on Climate and Security." 27 countries are involved, but the Netherlands is still missing. Perhaps the Minister can clarify that very quickly. I would say: the Netherlands belongs to this group, the Netherlands belongs to that group. Mr. Chairman. More needs to be done to green the Dutch foreign policy. International climate policy is highly fragmented. The letter on European and global climate diplomacy which we have recently received is particularly well-known on the modernised agenda of Foreign Affairs, signed by and on behalf of seven rulers. Seven rulers! But Minister Blok is not there. This despite the fact that Foreign Affairs has a climate envoy, an Arctic ambassador and an impressive post network in all those countries that will be the first to be affected by the humanitarian and security aspects of climate change. I would like to see a single coordinating director or at least a ministry linking all our efforts in this area with maximum ambition and a coherent approach. I think that's what the State Department should be. I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at that. This is also in line with the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of, I believe, February on climate diplomacy, which, on the contrary, also encourages the High Representative, the new High Representative who will be joining us, to pay more attention to climate change in financial and technical cooperation with partner countries. Mr. Chairman. At this point of greening. Recently, I presented an initiative paper on combating global deforestation with my colleague Isabelle Diks. I am sure we will be able to talk about this. For now, I have one question and one comment. First the question. Is the Minister prepared to say that our embassies will not support companies involved in the commercial exploitation of tropical forests, as seems to have happened in Brazil, for example? And then there's the comment. I welcome the way in which the cabinet is carrying out my motion on land rights defenders and environmentalists. I believe that we were given an overview of this a day or two ago. It said what happened to all human rights movements. More and more of these land rights defenders and environmentalists are being subjected to violent violence or even murder. It is good that this is given more attention in bilateral political dialogue. But in Brazil, for example, the work is constantly threatened, not least by the President himself. How can we increase the pressure on Brazil, for example? Can the Netherlands take initiatives in the European Union or perhaps later in the Human Rights Council? I would like to say a few things about human rights in general. This week we remembered that 30 years ago the Wall fell. I was one of those many who traveled to Berlin in the weeks after that. If that fall of the Wall has taught me anything, then it is that something that for a long time seemed poured into concrete could suddenly become liquid and variable. It is true: autocratic leaders are on the rise around the world, but their challengers come from all over the scenes. Istanbul chose against Erdogan and before democracy. Slovakia opted for a president who turned against corruption. In Sudan, Bashir had to clear the field. In Hong Kong, millions fight for their freedom, against Xi Jinping. And in Iraq, citizens risk their lives in a courageous fight for fair and democratic governance. That list is endless. Let us never make the mistake of identifying Russia with Putin, Turkey with Erdogan and China with Xi Jinping. Autocrats sometimes last a long time, but they will one day succumb to the pressure of free-minded and righteous citizens. That's the lesson of the fall of the Wall. The Netherlands must always be on the side of those citizens. We often say it proudly: "Promoting the international legal order is in our Constitution. The Hague is the legal capital of the world." But the question is, are we doing enough? Human rights were shattered in the note on China. That has now been corrected by a motion from the Chamber. But of course that should never have happened. How hard do we really want to tackle Saudi Arabia, Putin, and Erdogan, and Bolsonaro? Because, of course, we also want to remain friends in a way, because of NATO, gas or oil and the interests of our companies. I think we can do more: to help prevent violence against demonstrators and activists, to provide financial and sometimes moral support, to attend trials, to provide legal assistance, to protect those at risk. I would ask the Minister to look again at all the instruments available to us bilaterally and together with others, particularly in those countries where freedom is under pressure. Would he care to comment on that? Unfortunately, this is also necessary within the European Union. Unfortunately, the game of protecting democracy in EU Member States such as Hungary and Poland is only very small. Just in the past year, advice has been given by the AIV, but also by our own rapporteur, Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. My group, together with the Labour Party, has tabled an amendment to this effect and I hope for the support of the Minister and other parties. Finally, I have another twenty seconds, so I will finish off with a thorn in my eye: the relationship with Saudi Arabia. We're going after Bin Salman with velvet gloves. We received a report from the UN in June following the murder of Khashoggi. This gives a number of clear guidelines for, for example, personal sanctions. I would like to ask the Minister how he deals with the recommendations of that report, on which a motion by Mrs Karabulut and myself has been adopted. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with the foreign affairs budget. There are quite a few achievements in the world under pressure. Think of the multilateral system, NATO and what Macron said about it. Think of democracies. Think of Turkey and human rights. Think of China and the rule-based order. The time when the West could enforce values, or thought it could, is actually over. I would like to talk specifically about a number of things, namely persecution for the sake of religion and belief, Christian persecution, China and Syria and the Middle East. Mr. Chairman. I was recently with Mr Voordewind at an international conference on freedom of religion and belief, freedom of religion and belief. A report was presented by the United Nations showing that this freedom is diminishing and that persecution for the sake of faith and belief is increasing. The largest groups that are persecuted for their beliefs and beliefs are the Christians, initially, and the Muslims, in the second instance. A report has been prepared on this subject by the British Foreign Minister Hunt. Worldwide, the report states that there is an increasing violation of the freedom of religion and belief and of discrimination and violence against Christians in particular. In fact, in some regions, the level and nature of the persecution is even demonstrably close to the international definition of genocide, according to the same United Nations. At the request of the CDA, but also of many more parties here in the House of Representatives, for which thanks, a special envoy for freedom of religion and belief has come. I would also like to thank the Minister for that, because attention to this issue is urgently needed. Remarkably, the Minister devotes only one sentence to this in the budget, while this is also very clear in the coalition agreement. Why is that? There's no budget anywhere either. Nor does the Special Envoy receive the title of Ambassador, but, I believe, has the same status as an ambassador. So now the Special Envoy obviously has to hold hands with the Ministry or not, I ask the Minister on every journey or action he takes. How's that taken care of? Why is that not clear in the budget? Can we not amend the text in that budget, so that the ambition of that special envoy is clearly reflected in the budget? In May of this year, the CDA also called for the theme of religious intolerance, religious freedom and persecution to be presented for a special session of the Foreign Affairs Council, in order to define a joint strategy towards countries that pursue religious minorities. The Netherlands is also committed to Magnitsky sanctions. Serious human rights violations against religious minorities could also fall within the scope of this sanction regime. How's it going, Mr. Secretary? Don't you think it's about time we really nailed our heads? Do you need anything else from the Chamber for that? Together with Mr Sjoerdsma, I have been working on this for a long time, because this needed improvement as soon as possible. I cannot imagine Mr Sjoerdsma not saying anything about that at all. The Minister replied that the cabinet is ready to make an effort to put this issue on the agenda. Has there been such a moment? Then the UN. Human rights are rightly a cornerstone of foreign policy, but the climate for addressing them in the UN is not getting any better. During the five-year human rights exam at the UN, Iran was praised by 95 of the 111 countries for its human rights achievements. That's weird, right? How does the Minister feel about this? The Netherlands would like to join the Human Rights Council in 2020-2022. That's what the CDA thinks is right. Let me say first of all that it is a good thing that we want to be strong in the area of human rights. You must do so at the highest level. But what exactly is the mission of the Netherlands? If it is up to the CDA, the Minister must make sure that the Dutch commitment is not to constantly praise countries there, which makes no sense or to condemn when it doesn't make any sense. We need to engage in discussions to ensure that we can actually involve links. If that is the ambition, I fully support it, but I would like to know from the Minister how we are going to do it and what strategy the Netherlands has in this respect. China is also gaining increasing support in the UN in order to avoid criticism of large-scale human rights violations. The CDA has insisted on rewriting the human rights chapter for a reason. Recently we received a letter from the Minister in which we can read that the Minister is doing more on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u201	I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert how you can argue for human rights as the cornerstone of Dutch foreign policy and be pleased with that. That is another point where we agree. That's what you do on the same day that you said in the morning in the paper that you think we should re-establish diplomatic ties with Assad. If there is anyone here, I hardly even have to say that I am guilty of the most horrific mass human rights crimes, then that is the current President of Syria. If it's up to Mr. Van Helvert, we're gonna tie it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u202	I actually wanted to talk about China, but now Mr Van Ojik asks that question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u203	...to Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u204	No, I'd like to answer that question. I certainly don't want to avoid it. I saw that part, too. I think it's a good thing we're making that negotiable. More and more EU Member States are growing aware that the Assad regime may be part of a solution to Syria's instability. Other countries in Europe, such as the Czech Republic and Denmark, but also more countries, are already talking to the regime in Damascus. That's not because they approve of what Assad has done, but because they don't have the solution to figure it out. The Netherlands and other countries have tried to overthrow Assad, I say in response to Mr Van Ojik's question, but we must acknowledge that this has not been done. Making an opening can indeed be seen as a kind of political loss of face because you say: we don't mind what he's done anymore. That is not the case. The CDA prefers to look at what is really important for the people who live in Syria now, but also at what the Dutch interest is. So we opt for permanent destabilization, we opt for a new revival of IS and for new flows of refugees, then we must continue on the path we have taken. But the CDA wants to lay down here that we want to opt for stabilisation, for the embossing of IS and for the reconstruction of Syria, so that people can return to their homeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u205	At first I thought: after Mr Van Helvert's contribution, I'm going to suspend for lunch, but I don't think that's gonna work now that I see so many people standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u206	I warned you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u207	Did you bring your sandwiches?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u208	No, I don't have any. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u209	Oh. I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u210	Is Mr Van Helvert aware that his plea for the restoration of ties with Assad will be seen by Assad, and can only be seen as a support in his back and a reward for his disgusting behaviour? I am not saying that Mr Van Helvert intended this, but does he realize that this can only be seen in Syria and outside Syria by those millions of people who fled Assad? It can only be seen by them as a support in Mr Van Helvert's back for dictator Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u211	Mr Van Ojik says that I have advocated the restoration of all relations. I said: is it not time for a new opening with the regime in Damascus? I was talking about a new opening. And I have also admitted that this can indeed be seen as a political loss of face on our part. And it will certainly be shortened as a point of profit there. If we stay stuck in the honor of our own self, we lose nothing and the other can't take credit for it. But that is of no use to the people of Syria at the moment, which is of no use to the minorities in Syria at the moment. Even the Kurds are now seeking refuge with Assad, because they prefer Assad much more than the rise of the Turks. I speak with Church in Emergency and Open Doors, for example, and hear Christian minorities say: please speak to Assad, because the Turks are many times worse. So it is not a question of correcting everything that leaders do, but of restoring consular services. The Chamber has approved the State of the Consular 2018. We all did. In that State of the Consular State: "Consular services remain free from political considerations and other aspects of foreign policy. Consular cooperation is sought with all partners worldwide, and is independent of other bilateral relations." The Chamber approved that, too. So I'm not saying we need to fix all the tapes. You can have diplomatic relations in different sizes. The highest is when the king visits. That's not what we're talking about here. It is also high when the Minister visits. That's not what we're talking about here. I'm not talking about high diplomatic relations. We're starting at the lowest level of consular cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u212	Mr. Van Ojik, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u213	I understand. This is not about the state of consular services. This is not about whether we are losing face here in the Netherlands. This is a political signal given by Mr Van Helvert this morning, which is a blow to the face of millions of people who have fallen victim to Assad. Whether Mr Van Helvert has intended this or not, it is a reward for the man responsible for these terrible human rights violations. I ask Mr Van Helvert once more if he is aware of that. It's not about the loss of face for us. I don't care about our loss of face. It's about the signal he sent out in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u214	I am very glad that GroenLinks is not about the loss of face of the Netherlands either. It is about the importance of the people who live there, and it is also about the Dutch interest in it, because that is what we do with Foreign Affairs. It is primarily about the people who live there. It doesn't help them to keep doing nothing. And the CDA isn't alone in this either. In the web magazine of Institute Clingendael in Israel, Den Hond also made a very clear plea for an opening in Damascus. Former Syria Envoy Van Dam even thinks that we have broken our ties with Damascus far too quickly. Because if you break up, you won't be able to do anything at all. And the European Council on Foreign Relations also indicates that EU Member States are still in a kind of grieving process because we have not been able to scare Assad away. We all tried that last one. The council says that after the end of the grieving process we should look at a real option, what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u215	I would like to ask Mr Helvert...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u216	Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u217	... whether he remembers Assad's misdeeds. Most deaths in Syria have been caused by their own leader, Assad. Does he remember the poisonous gas attacks? It's not about losing face at all. If the price of justice for all the citizens of Syria who have fallen victim to Assad and IS were our loss of face, I would pay that price right now. I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert whether he has realised what the price has been that all those people have paid. And two: what exactly does he intend to do with the opening he wants? What exactly is his purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u218	It is also good to hear that the Labour Party is not looking to restore the loss of face of the Netherlands. It's nice that we agree on that. A number of my fellow Members, because there are still a number of others standing at the interrupting microphone, and I am sure they will now want to tell me how terrible Assad is. You may, but I know that, and I agree with you. I couldn't agree more. I absolutely agree with you. And that is why we have also with the EU Member States and with the United States... ISIS has also tried to overthrow Assad. We must acknowledge that this has not been done. We must recognise that we in the Netherlands do not have the political will to drive him away and that we cannot. The question is: do we continue to talk about destabilization, as we are now? Do we continue to focus on creating a new breeding ground for IS? Because that's basically what we're doing now in Syria. Will we continue to talk about not rebuilding Syria, so that no one can go back to Syria? I don't want to, and I don't think you want to. That is why, in this new geopolitics, in which we cannot simply impose our values on everyone from the West with an e-mail or with a military display of power, we will have to engage in the conversation. May I give an example of that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u219	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u220	I'm glad I got that question, 'cause I got that struggle, too. We're not going ice cream in one night. I've got that struggle, too. Here we receive the Prime Minister of China at the Tower. It may have more deaths on its conscience when it comes to the Uighur camps than Assad in the past year. And that's what we're talking to. In China organ robbery of the Falun Gong movement takes place. Christian communities are being oppressed. And that's what we're talking about, too, because we'll eventually be able to achieve something. At Assad, we tried it differently, because it was even more serious. Assad used poison gas against his own people. We have all said of this here and at the interrupting microphone: "That is not possible. That must be condemned. That man shouldn't be a leader." But we must note that none of us have succeeded. That is why we will have to take another step, in the interests of the people in Syria itself. We want stability and reconstruction of Syria so that refugees can return and ISIS fighters can be detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u221	I think it's a lot to ask the people in Syria to accept that the killer of their father or sister suddenly becomes the legitimate leader again. We can't ask people to do that. I would like to tell Mr Van Helvert the following. A political solution to this impasse should be negotiated. The Netherlands cannot do that alone. It has to be with other countries. Efforts are also being made to do this. If Mr Van Helvert had said 'Minister, Dutch Cabinet, you are seriously committed to achieving this and to enabling political negotiations that could lead to lasting peace', I would have understood his appeal. For me, there is no place for Assad in a political solution. There's no room for murderers. I understood that, but I really don't think it's right for the victims of the Assad regime to say: let's start another conversation, unconditional and without purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u222	With the last thing Mrs Ploumen says, she paraphrases me, saying something I didn't say. Mrs Ploumen says that a political solution must be negotiated. If you want to negotiate on the future of Syria, on a political solution, you will not get away at some point from finding an entrance to the Damascus regime to talk about it. That's what I'm saying: make an opening. That is neither unconditional nor without purpose. You can choose: will we continue on the road of destabilization? No, I want stabilization. Are we going to look at the reconstruction of Syria, which is not possible now? Yeah, we're gonna do that, I say. Then we'll have to make an opening somewhere. Does that mean that everything is forgiven and forgotten? No, it's terrible what Assad is still doing. But we must also note that what we are saying here does not help the people in Syria, no matter how beautiful the sentences that Mrs Ploumen uttered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u223	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u224	Not a question, Mr President, but a small comment. Mr Van Helvert and I do not agree on this. It is good that he realises that in recent years the UN and others have also spoken to the Assad regime. It's really not like the world locked the doors. In that sense, his appeal becomes even more painful, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u225	Sometimes it seems like what we're saying is a little bit off to each other. On the one hand, Mrs Ploumen welcomes the fact that there is talk. I say it would be good if we made an opening somewhere. But Mrs Ploumen says: I prefer not to let the Netherlands do that work but by someone else. Maybe it's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u226	You may correct it later, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u227	... a task for the Netherlands to find support for it. This is in the interest of the people of Syria, including the minorities there who are calling on us. It is also in the interest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u228	That's what you said. Very briefly, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u229	I'm just gonna straighten it out for a little while. The Labour Party wants a politically negotiated solution with all parties for a Syria where there is no place for Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u230	That's what you said. I'm going to see Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Assad considers himself the victor. I think Mr Van Helvert knows that too. This also means that there is no or little reason for Assad to make any concessions. Now we have had a little debate this morning about the situation of that IS-scum of Dutch descent in Iraq. Iraq has already indicated not to make a concession on the death penalty. Then it's not to be expected that Assad will make that concession, is it? On the contrary, Assad is even brighter in the death penalty than one is in Iraq. My question to Mr Van Helvert is whether, like the spokesperson of the VVD and myself on behalf of the PVV, he believes that it is better for that Dutch IS scum in Syria to receive the death penalty than for them to be transferred to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u232	Indeed, Assad considers himself the victor. We must also acknowledge that we have not been able to drive him away, which was the goal. How Mr Assad will sell that? He does not need any argument at any low level of government in the Netherlands. What Mr De Roon is asking me to do is to start negotiations from behind this Chamber and to settle a number of issues for a while. You call it the death penalty. Then I think you're going to act like an orthodontist who wants to push all the teeth equally straight in one treatment. It doesn't work like that. I ask whether, recognising that it was not possible to expel Assad, recognizing that the matter is still destabilising in Syria and recognising that we actually want to rebuild in Syria so that refugees can return to it, that is what Mr De Roon wants with me and with the CDA, it is not time to make an opening somewhere through a discussion with the regime in Damascus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u233	I see now that Mr Van Helvert, after these big words, is suddenly making circular or even retreating movements, for he refuses to say 'be so' as Assad says in the ultimate case that he wants to be able to impose that death penalty on that IS scum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u234	No, we're also against the death penalty. We're never gonna approve of that. That's not the question now either. You want to speak right away about the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u235	Yes, that is indeed my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u236	Okay, but that question... There's no conversation with Assad right now, is there? If we now put our demands on the table about everything that needs to be done in Syria, of which the death penalty is of course one pregnant thing, then Assad will ask: what are you doing here, while you were trying to scare me away last week? I ask you to open the conversation, looking at the importance of the people who live there, the minorities who live there. You are right to expect me to organize the death penalty or the abolition of the death penalty in that country from behind this seat. Of course, I can't do that. You're gonna have to have a conversation about that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u237	I am not asking Mr Van Helvert to organise the abolition of the death penalty there. I ask whether the ultimate consequence of Van Helvert's position is that the whole plan of his falls apart, given that Assad will never renounce that death penalty, which means that he will have to agree to that death penalty in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u238	Well, I guess I'll just have to take the report from our international counsellor. He writes that the local trial of ISs is preferable and that this should be done with the countries together, i.e. with Iraq and Syria. Mr Nollkaemper appoints them himself. So that's what you're gonna have to do with each other. When we discussed that report, we talked about ISIS fighters. No one said at that time that report was not good because it had not yet been settled in Syria. No, you can't fix that from the beginning either. Nollkaemper does say that, if you wish, you must try ISIS fighters locally in cooperation with the governments in power there. The Kurds, including the Syrian Kurds, are currently resorting to Assad's regime, because they are so displaced by Turkey. Those aren't people who impose the death penalty. Yet they seek refuge in Assad. So if you are talking about the trial of ISIS fighters and want to try them locally with the approval of the Assad regime, then Kurds could do the same. They have so far held a great many ISIS fighters. I am not saying here that I have the wisdom and know how to do it, but I really think it is too short and too rigid to say immediately: Assad will never give up the death penalty, so nothing is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u239	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u240	Denmark is also having those conversations. As much as that country, we have the results to figure out. We don't have a palette of outcomes ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u241	Period. Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u242	Finally, Mr President. Mr Van Helvert presents highly improbable scenarios here. The most likely scenario is that Assad says: the death penalty stays here and I want to apply it if that is necessary. That means that Van Helvert is actually just diving away for the ultimate consequence of the plan he has launched.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u243	I actually thought that the doctrine of hugging dictators had disappeared with the departure of Halbe Zijlstra, but I see it has returned. Colleagues of mine have explained quite extensively what terrible wrongs Mr Assad has committed. I will not repeat it, except for this one remark that Mr Assad is, of course, actually Islamic State in a very neat suit; there is very little distinction. But I would like to comment on Mr Van Helvert's specific proposals, not so general. He wants to have an opening with Assad to talk about trial. Now I would like to ask him to take a look at what Assad has done to Islamic State. He has not only not fought them in recent years, no, he has been at the basis of the revival of Islamic State. He's got all those terrorist suspects in his cell, released, loaded into buses and shipped to Iraq. So I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert whether he is not actually giving these fighters to the boss of the organization and thereby releasing them de facto.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u244	No, that's not true. Assad...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u245	It is very loud, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u246	Assad is not the same as IS. The fact that Assad solves things in a way that we find objectionable is true. Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me that the alternative is that we are doing nothing but now and we simply decide not to talk to Assad and leave it there? So we don't do anything. That is why I would like to say the following. Given the reconstruction of Syria for the people who live there and so that people who have fled the country can one day return, given the destabilising factor that Assad is, and given the detention of IS fighters, is it worth talking about? Is there anything else I can say, Mr. Chairman? Mr Van Ojik is being served at his beck and call, because I am putting something serious on the table. And that's called hugging dictators by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u247	That's where Mr. Koopmans wants...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u248	Then I'm thinking, why can't we talk about this? Why does this have to be pulled right into the ludicrous? While Mr Sjoerdsma also has this problem. He doesn't know how to fix it either. Let's see if someone comes up with an idea of what we can and can't use, instead of wiping everything that doesn't immediately have the stamp of D66 with a slap off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u249	You made that clear. I shall go first to Mr Koopmans, because he wants to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u250	Let's separate ourselves from this discussion. I do not think it is proper and I do not think it is the way we should do it here when Mr Zijlstra is quoted here and connected with something that does not apply at all. I don't think that's nice. That's not part of us. I want to make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u251	You did. Then I will go to Mr Sjoerdsma. No, do not respond to Mr Koopmans, because it was a point of order and you were already done, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u252	Madam President, don't worry. I have heard Mr Van Helvert correctly, but I think my question was very clear. My question was about the fact that Mr Van Helvert wants to talk to Assad about the trial of these fighters. My argument against this is that Mr Assad was at the root of this terrorist movement when he released all these people from his prisons. Mr Van Helvert does not go into that. Then about the other point. Yeah, I do have another solution. If the choice is to let those people wander around freely, so that they can start again on the spot with their misdeeds or come under the radar to the Netherlands, or to judge those people themselves here, I finally find that the Netherlands has a responsibility to judge those people here. It is fine that Mr Van Helvert does not like that, but I ask him now to respond to the fact that Assad has been at the root of this terrorist movement. He's the foster father of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u253	No, I do not agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. He's not the foster father or godfather of ISIS. I don't agree with Assad on a lot of things. He's doing terrible things, and the worst part is using poison gas against his own people. I couldn't agree more. No one here has to convince me that Assad has been a very bad leader. No one has to convince me of that. We have tried to drive him away with the Americans and a number of European Member States, but we have to admit that we have not succeeded. When you say "get those ISIS fighters here," I think you greatly underestimate that ISIS is doing this purposefully and that the idea of ISIS is to bring people here to continue the work of Islamic State here. The advice of the AIVD is simply ignored by D66. I am therefore in favour of local trial, and as our international advisor said, you do so in cooperation with the government that is working there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u254	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u255	I didn't think of that. That's something from the international advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u256	That's what you said. Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u257	The international counsellor is against the death penalty. Just a few more minutes. We had our conference last weekend. There were 200 Syrians present. They actually invited themselves to get there. Apart from the fact that they spoke excellent Dutch, they shared one great fear. That fear was crazy enough not the Islamic State. That was Assad. They all said: under Assad we can never go back to Syria, because Assad wants only one thing, and that is to destroy us. So also Mr Van Helvert's assumption that Assad will contribute to the reconstruction of Syria for all Syrians is a false and dangerous assumption. So I would really like to say to Mr Van Helvert: think again if you want us to be blackmailed by Assad, who was at the root of this terrorist organization and who is going to turn these people against us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u258	A short reaction, because this has been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u259	Yeah, I'm sure. Once again, I am being persuaded that Assad has done very bad things, including towards his own people. I know. I'm aware of that. I rejected that. We tried to expel Assad ourselves, but we can see he's in there and he's still a destabilising factor. There are indeed people who say that they can never go back and never want to go back, but that is why we here in the Netherlands always make the measure: what is the situation in a country? On that basis, someone can be returned or not. We'll keep it that way. I don't care about that at all. If it's not safe for people, then they're not going back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u260	You have to talk to very bad people to put an end to the very bad things they do, but that can talk in a lot of different ways. Now that is happening through the United Nations. I agree with those who say: why should the Netherlands take the lead in this and make a concession or knee-down without getting anything in return, even though there is no political solution at all? I do not understand that, also because I know that the CDA was very critical when the cabinet, in a completely different situation, wanted to talk to a minister in Venezuela to do something about the refugee problem and so on. That was bad for CDA, but now talking to a mass murderer like this would be good. But what really matters is that Mr Van Helvert said that Mr Assad can once again contribute to stability. I do not understand that, because the stability in Syria has been destroyed by Mr Assad, who has killed thousands, hundreds of thousands of people there. What stability does he see?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u261	First of all, Mr Koopmans is confusing a number of things. First he tells me you can do diplomacy at different levels. I agree with him; I explained that. Then he sweeps all diplomatic ways back on one mountain and says: the CDA was critical there. In Venezuela, the foreign minister took a picture with the Venezuelan minister and spoke of "my good friend." I didn't think that was wise, but taking a picture of a foreign minister with a minister and saying 'this is a good friend', knowing what human rights violations are happening there, is something other than working together on things at a low diplomatic or consular level. As far as cooperation is concerned, I am now pretending to be something that has never happened in the world. You can see, for example, that the United States has no diplomatic relations with Iran. Nevertheless, the United States, albeit with the intervention of Switzerland, is able to manage to get a journalist out of prison at a consular level. Although you do not have official diplomatic relations, you can start consular cooperation at a low level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u262	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u263	There isn't any at all right now. So that's why you're stuck in the situation that's going on and that's not solving anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u264	It's gonna be a repeat all the time. So I'm gonna go see if...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u265	I get the same kind of questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u266	Yeah, in different forms. I've noticed that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u267	Mr Van Helvert wants to do a knee-down. I think that's what most people here want, but I still don't see what Mr Van Helvert gets in return for that, especially when he says that Assad can bring stability, when he has caused so many casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u268	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u269	Of course, that sounds very strange. If you say that the word "stability" sounds positive to us and if you link it to Assad's regime, it would seem as if you immediately agree with everything that regime does. That is not the case. But you can see that there are groups that are currently experiencing more stability under Assad than where the Turks invade and even seek their salvation there. If there is stability, does that mean that everything in that state complies with the way the Netherlands would like to see it and is in line with Western values? No, not at all, but right now it's a huge mess, in which NATO Member States can just invade without anyone doing anything about it. That's a degree of instability we don't want. If you want to take a step towards stability but also towards building Syria and towards securing ISIS fighters, you will have to start somewhere. This can be done at a low consular level, but you have to engage in the dialogue with the Assad regime. That is what I am saying to Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u270	Mr Voordewind has a very new question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u271	Well, I'm also hooking in on these answers, of course, because you never know how it goes. Mr Van Helvert talks about stability, and he has said earlier through the media that he is talking about a dialogue on the trial of the ISIS fighters and possibly also the women of the ISIS fighters and so on, because Mr Van Helvert does not want to bring them to the Netherlands either. Now we have had a colleague here from Mr Van Helvert, Madeleine van Toorenburg, who, a few days ago, strongly opposed the reaction of the VVD to the death penalty and the trial in Iraq. How are we supposed to see this? Your party is strongly opposed to the death penalty, but how are we supposed to see the trial and, ultimately, the death penalty in Syria? There's the death penalty. How do you prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u272	Look, we're against the death penalty, and it's gonna stay that way. But that does not mean that you cannot have any consular cooperation with any country that has the death penalty. For example, we have a great deal of cooperation with China, which I believe has applied the death penalty 46 times in the past year. If you're talking to a country, it doesn't mean that you're approving that they have the death penalty. In the trial of ISIS fighters, I take the report from our international advisor, Mr Nollkaemper. He has written a report from the University of Amsterdam on the trial of ISIS fighters, and advises in this: this limitation leads to the conclusion that a tribunal with the cooperation of Iraq and Syria has a strong preference, and that strong efforts will have to be made to support the national trial. That is what Mr Nollkaemper says. I think you should be able to start a conversation at that point. That doesn't mean you're gonna approve the death penalty right away. By the way, local trial can also happen. Kurds have also been given a place at Assad. The Syrian Kurds never apply the death penalty, and it could also be the case that the Syrian Kurds have a place in the tribunal. You could also say that you are assisting with international knowledge and skills to put a proper legal system in place there. The alternative is to do nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u273	We have many countries with terrible diplomatic ties, but we do not have people in China who are now facing the death penalty. In fact, if that is the case, the Netherlands will probably come up to get those people out of there to at least avoid the death penalty. That is the policy of the Netherlands, and that is the difference with what we are dealing with now. With regard to the international counsellor, please read through the report. Of course, he pleads for local trial, but he also says that this is contrary to local law, namely the death penalty. There's another disclaimer. So I'm sticking to the same question. The second point linked to it is the point of stability. Why is Mr Van Helvert not putting all the cards on Assad, not much more on stability around the Kurdish region, around the SDF, to make sure that the safe zone there will be truly safe and controlled not by Turkey, but by an international force? I'd like a reaction to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u274	Again, it's said that when you talk to Assad, you're in favour of the death penalty. That is not the case; we are always opposed to it. Then there is the question of using stability: why are we not focusing more on the Kurdish region? I think that's where Turkey invaded. I think we're seeing the United States leaving. I wouldn't know which special forces from the Netherlands would suddenly have to go there, if we still have them off at all. When Mr Voordewind calls for a number of special forces to liberate the Syrian region, I find that very strange because I do not think we have one. Without the United States, I do not think that is possible at all. We cannot do any action abroad, for example, as we did in Afghanistan, without the support of the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u275	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u276	If you have to choose between stabilising Assad and helping Assad further in the saddle, or to see if we can stabilize the region of the Kurds in North-East Syria with an international force as suggested by the Germans, I am not telling you what the Netherlands should do, but that is the German proposal, and I will encourage Mr Van Helvert and call on him to choose the latter, and not to help Assad in the saddle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u277	Now it's said, "helping Assad in the saddle." But Assad is right there in the saddle. We are trying to pretend from the West that we are not, as if our cries in the House of Representatives were pushing him out of that saddle. But he's not, he's in the saddle. The U.S. military didn't get him out of there. All the European army units we've sent haven't gotten him out. ISIS didn't get Assad out. It's not a matter of getting Assad in the saddle, he's there. The question is: how do we stand up for the people who live there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u278	Indeed, Assad is stronger in the saddle than ever. Mr Van Helvert quoted Mr Van Dam. It has already said a number of years ago, at the beginning of the civil war, that breaking all diplomatic ties has only contributed to destabilisation, the extension of the war, the fact that Assad could go further and strengthen the jihadists, supported by Turkey, the Gulf States and other allies. My question to Mr Van Helvert is: how can you have supported this strategy until today, until this morning when we opened the newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u279	That's why I'm saying... We tried to get rid of Assad. That didn't work. I just said it, and I want to say it again: dear people, even at home, that didn't work. So that wasn't good. I already said in the radio interview this morning that Mr. Van Dam was actually right. We can now look at whether we want to keep our face up and continue to say to Assad: we are doing nothing and we will continue to do so. Or do we say: what is the interest of the people who live there, knowing what terrible things the Assad regime has done? We share that, you and I.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u280	Then I have a follow-up question. By the way, I note and note that the CDA group, as one of the few political groups to date, recognizes that the political strategy, including the Netherlands, has completely failed in an international coalition with regard to Syria and that it has even contributed to strengthening the jihadists with the support of ally Turkey. Then my follow-up question is: when it comes to the CDA's group of people in Syria, to all the population groups, I assume, why has it refused to take a stand against Turkey all these years and take measures to stop Turkey? Two. Then why does the CDA group not opt for a political solution by at least asking our government to speak with the Syrian Democratic Council so that they can also get a place in the political process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u281	The CDA and Turkey? Listen, I think we always have the Foreign Minister with every input on foreign affairs or NATO... Mr. Bram van Ojik would say, "Why doesn't the coalition agree?" We have always been extremely critical of our own minister and also of Minister Blok's predecessors on the fact that Turkey was not condemned. I think we share that. And when it comes to giving the Syrian Democratic Council a place: we have always advocated, including around the IS Tribunal, that we should listen to the Syrian Democrats, because they ask for our help in the trial of IS people. So now you also have to talk to the Syrian Democratic Council, but also to the regime in Damascus, to make sure that we know that it is important for them to be given a role there. If you don't speak to the regime, then you can't mean anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u282	That is clear, you have made that clear. Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u283	Finally. Yes, the CDA is indeed expressing itself, certainly outwardly, very critical of NATO ally Turkey. But I have to say that over the last few years the CDA has continued to support the failing strategy, even though it saw that instability and the number of victims also increased, and that it has never stopped it or advocated real sanctions for Turkey. My final question, which is very important, is the following. The CDA Group says that we want to support the Syrian Democratic Council and we want a political solution. Can Mr Van Helvert set out very explicitly for everyone under what conditions diplomatic relations should be established with the current regime of Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u284	The conditions we propose... We say that you must make an opening somewhere in Damascus, because, first of all, Assad has not been removed and that is also final with the departure of the US. So Assad's in the saddle there. And two. For what reason are we going to talk to the regime in Damascus? That's because we're faced with the choice. Do we opt for permanent destabilization, for forming a new breeding ground for IS and for non-restoring Syria? We don't choose to do that. We're actually putting that other option on the table. We can talk about that here in the Chamber. Because if we opt for stabilisation, for the detention of IS fighters and for the reconstruction of Syria, then eventually refugees can also return. I am quite right to look at Mr Sjoerdsma: this can only be done when these people can do the same. As long as it's not safe, it can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u285	You just said that. No, Mrs Karabulut, this has changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u286	You asked for conditions and I mention three conditions under which.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u287	The same goes for Mr De Roon, because he has just been here and he has also intervened extensively on this point. A point of order, Mr. De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u288	Yes. I only need one term with two sentences. I would ask you to allow it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u289	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u290	I would suggest to Mr Van Helvert that the stability of Assad, which he is so counting on, is a stability of the morgue. I would advise Mr Van Helvert not to count on that in his calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u291	Madam President. You're trying to have a nuanced discussion here about where we could make an opening somewhere, if we can change something about that situation that nobody's happy with. The removal of Assad has failed with the United States and it has failed with European partners. We're still in this situation. It is not useful then if you cannot really talk about the content in that discussion and we put each other away as "you're counting on Assad" or "you're hugging a dictator." That is what Mr De Roon is saying: you are counting on Assad. No, I'm not counting on anything. But I do know what we can all count on: if we stay in the Chamber as we are all sitting here now and stick to our position that we always had, then we get what we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u292	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u293	Thank you. When this question came, I actually wanted to start with the situation in China, Madam President. That's what I was doing, with human rights in China. Once again, in the context of the Van Ojik doctrine, I had asked the Minister eagerly about this: why is there so little action in the field of human rights? The Minister sent a letter about that. That was a nice letter. Thank you, Madam President, I would like to say to the Minister through you. You can see the Minister put more time into that, and I appreciate that. And the CDA appreciates that. I heard here in the corridors that more parties appreciate that. I'd like to say a few things. I'm sure we'll talk about that letter again, but since I've been so encouraging the Minister to do so, I didn't think it was possible to say anything about it now. We talked about the death penalty. Fortunately, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken a very clear stance in this respect, including towards the VVD. In China, the death penalty has been imposed 46 times in the last year. I don't hear the Minister about that at all. Torture is mentioned once, but an example from 2015 in which some 300 human rights lawyers were silenced by means of long prison sentences, house arrest, torture and secret detention centres is not mentioned. I also mention China's export of torture products. These include, for example, the export of electric poles of arms, poles equipped with metal pins, foot clamps and leg clamps. I'm just saying. That kind of thing wasn't mentioned in there. The minister actually says about organ robbery: "We don't know that for sure. We're not very good at determining that. And if that's the case, it's annoying, but we don't know for sure." I actually want action from the cabinet on this. The EU adopted a resolution on organ robbery on 12 December 2003. It says that this organ robbery is there and we call on the Member States of the European Union to condemn it and to ensure that the inhabitants of the Member States cannot go to China to have organs transplanted there, otherwise it will be in your hands. One example of what you could do, which could be in the strategic note on China, is that we are going to implement that measure of Europe. Then we will also tell the inhabitants of the Netherlands: we forbid you from going to China for an organ transplant, because then you know that someone from the Falun Gong has been excluded from an organ or that a Uygur has been picked from a village somewhere and an organ has been taken from that person. Well, you could have done that. Then a second example of what I would have liked to see. Is it possible that we're still doing this in that note? That is also the question about the implementation of that rule. So many delegations from provinces and municipalities visit China to establish economic ties and friendships. I understand it's happening. Then I ask those aldermen and those delegates: do you also discuss human rights in China? Then they answer: well, that's difficult, because I don't know what level it's at and I can't. Then it's hard. We know that there are a lot of delegations from local authorities going to China. It would be nice, then, if it were said from the Foreign Office, before they go, that perhaps you would like to visit us for a day, so that we can brief you on what is going on in China and what you can discuss there in addition to talking about friendship and economics? These two issues are examples of actions that I believe could actually have been included in the Human Rights Note. But they're not in there. I ask the Minister: would you like to put something like this in that note? Then I think we will talk about that letter another time, which was much more beautiful, more extensive and better than the first piece. I think I'm getting to the head of Syria, Madam President. I feel like I've already discussed this, but I'm still looking at a few points. Just give me a minute, Madam President. Oh, yeah, around Turkey and Syria. Following an interruption by Mrs Karabulut, we have already discussed Turkey. I almost personally asked the Prime Minister here: Prime Minister, would you like to consult NATO on the basis of Article 4? We believe that the release of those ISIS fighters is a real danger to our country, to our country's security. On this basis, each member can do an article 4 consultation. Has that happened yet? Did the Minister do that? Earlier, the cabinet indicated that the suspension of Turkey from NATO was not possible at all. It would be impossible because that article does not exist. Then we should completely abolish NATO and set up a new NATO. According to the Vienna Convention, such serious violations could lead to the question of membership of a State in a multilateral treaty. It's in the Vienna Convention. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether there is a possibility, on the basis of what is stated in the Vienna Convention on multilateralism and non-behaving Member States? Then our own commitment, the commitment of the Netherlands in Syria. We have, of course, already had a lot of discussions about the non-lethal assistance. There is also still a need to publish WOB documents. When's that gonna happen? The judge, again recently, ruled that Ahrar al-Sham is a terrorist organization. The Foreign Minister refuses to acknowledge that. Why doesn't the Minister do that? Or is the Minister prepared to do so now? So that's about Syria. Then I can continue, because in my interruptions I have actually already dealt with everything on that point. Finally, I would like to say that it is important to continue to cherish NATO. I think that's important. Macron said he's brain dead. I don't think that's wise. "Death of death" means there's really nothing you can do about it. If Macron thinks so, he should be honest. I think there's still some work to be done. The CDA believes that NATO has very serious problems. We really have a problem with loyalty, especially from Turkey, which not only flirts with the Russians but also deals with them. So we're in big trouble. But I say one thing: to take it seriously, we must also keep our own promises. That is why yesterday the Chamber adopted a motion that the cabinet should draw up a national plan on how to get the expenditure on Defence that we also promised. I ask what the Foreign Minister's position is on that. Does he want to reflect on that? When it comes to Iran, it is a great challenge. More people have said something about that. I would like to ask: how is the protection of our merchant navy? And how is the protection of our dredgers along the coast of Iran? Does the Cabinet have any contact with that? And what about the cabinet? Madam President. I would like to say a few words about Armenia. Of the 47 countries that are members of the Council of Europe, the Netherlands has no physical diplomatic representation in 6 countries, including Armenia. I have already asked written questions about this, along with Mr Voordewind and some others. I'm sorry I didn't mention those names. I don't see anyone lift a finger, but they were several colleagues. The country is undergoing a democratic transformation, to say the least, after the 2018 velvet revolution. The Netherlands, through resources and the Human Rights Fund, is committed to promoting the rule of law and human rights. Armenia also belongs to the Dutch electoral groups of the IMF, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The EU also concluded a partnership agreement with Armenia. So there is every reason to step up relations, because not all countries do so many things together on international platforms. The cabinet in Armenia actually does not go beyond strengthening the Dutch embassy in Georgia, with one local employee. The CDA finds this bet too lean. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the possibilities for opening an embassy in Jerevan? I am sure that if we can help the Minister with that, Mr Voordewind, along with me and others, is very willing to support that with an amendment or whatever. I am also sure that Mr Voordewind, who is a warm advocate of this, will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u294	I was very curious to see how far you are with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u295	I've got four minutes left, but I might not even need one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u296	Your group will be very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u297	Opening an embassy in Jerevan in Armenia: I don't think Armenia is of great importance to the Netherlands, but it's not an unsympathetic idea. I agree with Mr Van Helvert to do so. But what about Taiwan? Should we not also open a diplomatic post there, because that country deserves our sympathy as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u298	Suddenly I was thinking about someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u299	I don't know why I suddenly looked in the back of the room to see if Mr Krol was there. I think that's too soon. I really do. I think I just made the comparison with the orthodontist who wants to push a tooth straight at once. That's just way too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u300	What then needs to be done to enable the opening of a diplomatic post in Taipei?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u301	Taking into account the people of Taiwan, the companies of Taiwan and the NGOs in Taiwan, we will have to ensure that we do not take too great steps in that direction, so that it does not turn against those people. 'Cause that's when you get chunks. What you need to do is to let people know that you can appreciate the way Taiwan works and the way Taiwan deals with human rights, that you are okay with that and that you can have consular cooperation with Taiwan somewhere. I think that's very sensible. At the moment when we say on our own, almost as the only country in the EU, to open a post there, you will have so much trouble in the tent that you won't be able to discuss it with China at all in the coming years. I think we're farther from home than we'd like. From a diplomatic point of view, I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u302	I think they'd be on the banks in Taiwan cheering if we did. Mr Van Helvert does not seem to think so. Maybe it's okay if he goes to work in Taiwan, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u303	That they're cheerful on the banks, I know very well. I have tabled a fantastic motion with Mr Bishop of the SGP. That motion was much softer than opening a post. The motion asked the cabinet to seek support within the European Union in order to ensure that Taiwan can play a role in some international multilateral meetings. A first step. So that's not the orthodontist pushing against that tooth, but that's the tightening of the brace, so you take a little step. That's why they were already on the couches. I think Mr Krol danced with them in Taiwan. That they want to go that way, I totally agree with you. But with Armenia we have much more, because we are also in electoral groups with the IMF, the World Bank and the European Bank. We really have more to do with Armenia; we have to say that honestly. That's why I'm pleading for an embassy in Jerevan and I'm asking the Minister if he can organize that. Then there's the Middle East Peace Process. Over the last few days, we've seen horrible images from Israel. We also see that a two-state solution is becoming increasingly out of sight. Nor is there any prospect of an early resumption of negotiations. My question is how the Netherlands can do more so that this process can come to an end. On two points, I would like to ask the Minister to draw attention to this in the European Union, bilaterally or in other contexts. First of all... There's no way we can expand these settlements. As the Netherlands, we really have to say clearly: we do not want to do that and we cannot do that. Second. It cannot be that the Palestinian Authority has still not held elections. How long haven't they been running for office? So from both sides I want to see an effort there. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Netherlands can take a further step on these two points, i.e. enlargement of settlements on the one hand and the lack of democracy in the Palestinian Authority on the other. I am not counting on the Minister taking care of it within a week, but doing nothing, letting it happen, is not an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u304	However, I would suggest that you conclude your speech and then you will have the opportunity to ask questions. 'Cause you said you were almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u305	Yes, that was my last point, Madam President. I look forward to the Minister's reply. I'd like to come back in second term, 'cause that leaves me time, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u306	Brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u307	Israel has an open-air prison where 2 million Gazans are held. Last year or early this year, we had a debate on this, in which Mr Van Helvert mentioned the murder of almost 200 people killed by the Israeli army, including a 14-year-old boy. You called that murder, and you said, "We must say that we do not want that." In the meantime, it has become clear that only one military has been sentenced with a one-month community service. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u308	I have said that Israel always has the right to defend itself, but that it cannot be that it shoots people in the back from afar. That can't be part of the defense, and that's not right. The Minister has said that there will be an investigation. We'll wait and see how we deal with it. So a fair question to the Minister is: what about the investigation and what reaction does the government have to this? I'm really looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u309	You were right to speak harshly at that time, because it is of course incredible that innocent children who do not have to shoot at all should be shot to death. Not only children, but also medics. I've just told you that they've been investigating themselves and that one soldier for the death of a 14-year-old boy has received a one-month community service. Do you agree with me that at least the Minister should not hide anymore, but should make it clear that Israel really needs to combat impunity in this respect and that we should also really take measures to move him to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u310	Yeah, I think I also made it clear that you have the right to defend yourself, but it can't be that you shoot people in the back from afar, because this has nothing to do with defending. I asked the Minister what he was going to do about this. He said: an investigation is being carried out and then we will react. I also raised the question of how we can help Israel to defend itself without violating human rights. That question is still open and I would like to hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u311	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u312	May I express my appreciation to Mr Van Helvert for the fact that I have told him that it has so far been investigated by Israel and that there has only been one military community service for a month for the shooting of an innocent 14-year-old boy, murder, as you have called it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u313	You may certainly ask me for an appreciation, but let me first take into account the Minister's answers to my questions. We also have a second term and then we can express all our appreciations. I am therefore in favour of waiting first for the Minister's answers and then expressing appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u314	It will not surprise Mr Van Helvert that I share his frustration at the fact that the two-state solution is becoming increasingly out of sight. I actually agree with his call for action. He said, "Doing nothing is not an option." I'm translating that as a call for action. One of the bumps is, of course, Israel's continued commitment to expanding illegal settlements. How does Mr Van Helvert view this? What options would he see for doing something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u315	I mentioned it: I don't have that solution. I'm telling you the truth. I wish I had one. If you are visiting Israel, seeing the Palestinian territories and seeing in the distant settlements on hills formerly owned by Palestinian farmers, do you think: well, what can you do about this? Of course, the Netherlands can't do very much on its own; that's the tricky part. My appeal to the Minister is: can you take a look at this with all the people who know about this in that beautiful building that Foreign Affairs is now in? Where can we mean something new together with Europe or other countries? Despite the fact that the United States, of course, is holding an extremely warm hand in the back of Israel, can we get something new going somewhere, a peace process with a view to that two-state solution, which I thought both parties once were somewhat hopeful about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u316	I would like to propose the following to Mr Van Helvert. If there was a ready-made solution, we would of course have submitted it a long time ago. But there are a number of options, which also have to do with the way we relate to Israel, conditions, etc. I'm gonna go back and forth on this and maybe I'll come up with a proposal. Perhaps Mr Van Helvert will support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u317	I'm sure I'd like to take a look at that. I have now put the question to the Minister, so I would like to include the Minister's answer. I am also prepared, if the cabinet feels supported by this, to ask for a ruling from the Chamber by means of a motion in the direction I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u318	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-13-tweedekamer-4.u319	I would now like to suspend the sitting until 2:50 p.m. Then we will have the order of business first and then we will continue with the first term of office from 3 p.m. on.
