ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp, on behalf of the VVD Group, for his question to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, on the report that officials are shivering and falling down the stairs in the brand new Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I call Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Officials are so important to the administration of our country. A lot of people are heart and soul engaged in public affairs. It is therefore important that those who do so feel good at work and feel safe in the workplace. Last Friday, I was startled. This time it wasn't the floors on Home Affairs and Justice and Security, but the officials at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State and Foreign Affairs: falls due to malfunctioning stairs and jet heaters because the heating doesn't work properly in the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. Through you, I ask the Secretary of State if the people working at the Ministry are safe. The National Real Estate Company claims to have taken action in the meantime. The stairs are locked immediately. A solution is being worked out, but what is the solution? Does the Secretary of State have a plan to solve the problems in this ministry? If so, what will that cost? Is it true that the building we are talking about was completed at the end of 2017 after a thorough renovation of 267 million euros? Stairs, the climate system, not enough workplaces; has there been an evaluation of that thorough refurbishing? If not, will the Secretary of State undertake to do so? And what's the bigger picture? Are there any other problems to be expected in ministries where our officials work? Finally, Mr President. What's it about? What is the role of the National Real Estate Company? What does the Secretary of State intend to change to ensure that more renovations of the National Real Estate Company succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Middendorp that civil servants should be able to work safely. This applies not only to civil servants, but to everyone. If buildings are to be designed, every effort must also be made to ensure safety. The same applies to the use of buildings. If safety cannot be guaranteed, measures must be taken to ensure safety. I'm gonna go back to how it all started. In 2014 a contract was signed between the Rijksvastgoedbedrijf and the consortium to thoroughly renovate the Rijnstraat 8 building. That has happened very thoroughly. A lot's happened. It was quite an assumption. When building, this must be done in such a way that a safe environment can be guaranteed. If you then see that there have indeed been a number of falls, which I regret, it is very unfortunate when people fall and in one case also suffer considerable injuries. I just went to look at those stairs myself. I have to tell you, I wouldn't make them myself so quickly. This is also a matter of taste, but apart from that, stairs must be safe. Immediately after the fall, the stairs are closed. This still ensured the accessibility of the Rijnstraat. A solution is currently being worked out. That solution will be tested this week. We've already tested some previous solutions. Basically, it gets very detailed, but this is part of the fact that there is a raised edge on the stairs that can cause people to fall. That edge is too high and is cut off, so it is no longer an edge where you can stay behind. This should ensure that the stairs meet the requirements. The railings are also adjusted, so that they have more grip and you can grab hold of them, should you slip. We assume that in this way we can restore it all in the relatively short term, that the stairs can be opened again and the building is in use. Mr Middendorp asks what we can learn from this. I'd say every functional design looks at how beautiful it is, how functional it is and how safe it is. This is, of course, something that has happened at this property in recent years. Unfortunately, there are more complaints about this property; we have talked about this before in the Chamber. I would like to see us designing these types of buildings in the future. I do not need an evaluation for that in itself. I've already announced that. I'm just gonna take a good look at it and make sure everything meets the requirements. What is it going to cost, Mr Middendorp asks. I don't know. But at least the costs are not borne by the government. If contractors do not build in accordance with the specifications and there are unsafe situations, we simply return the account to the contractors. I don't know exactly how high it will be. Are there any other things that play at properties? There will always be problems with buildings. If there are little things playing, they can be solved. But these are functional design requirements. And right now, I'd say it could have been prevented. By paying more attention, something could have been created that works better and safer. I see something blinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's right. That is because speaking time also applies to directors. And you've been over that a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. He was actually in the process of evaluating and presenting a technical solution. I am curious about the evaluation and would like to discuss it in more detail, because we are not here for the first time. In March we talked about the floors. In October we also talked about the floors. And now we're talking about the stairs and some other elements in another ministry. As in March and October, it is said that we have started working on it; there is a solution. But I am curious what exactly that solution would be, not only for the stairs but also for the heating system. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. I told you, we're not here for the first time. It is important, because the Binnenhof complex will also be rebuilt. So I do need something more... Perhaps the Secretary of State has much more information about it, but I would like to see it in some sort of evaluation, so that we can also include it in all the debates we are now having on the renovation of the Binnenhof complex. Finally, on this point. The Secretary of State did not respond to it, but I think there are also lessons to be learned for the National Real Estate Company. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that. I am also curious when the biennial report on the state of the renovation of the Binnenhof complex will come to the Chamber, because then we can also talk about what has been done with the lessons that can be drawn from what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	It's a mission impossible, chairman. Mr Middendorp fires so many questions that I can never answer them within the time you have reserved for them. I'm so sorry. I was in the process of answering the questions, and now there are only more. I've indicated what we're gonna do. I have indicated that the handrails are being replaced. I have indicated that the stairs are corrected and made flat, so that they are equal. That is important, because it can open them up again. Mr Middendorp asks what I am going to do. In 2014, the contract for that building was signed. A cutlery has been made and contractors have started working on it. Now we find in the usage that some things are not the way they should be. All you can do is perform, tackle, repair, and make people safe to work. That's what I'm doing right now. We can evaluate it until we weigh one. We can go back to history. I am only saying in the direction of Mr Middendorp: in the case of the projects currently under way, for example at the Binnenhof but also in the case of other projects, I am going to look very strongly at the functionality, because ultimately it is a question of a building being functional. The logistics lines must be right. The safety regulations must be applied. And the Building Decision must be applied. Those are very simple things. If that doesn't happen, we'll put the bill back with whoever made it. We ask for quality, and then we can expect quality. If that quality isn't there, it's being repaired. I am also very sorry that I am standing here for the umpteenth time in front of a building that has already been compromised. But the only job I have there I also feel responsible for being responsible for repairing what did not go well as soon as possible and indeed for new projects for new construction and conversion to prevent it from happening again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	I do not want to make it a mission impossible, but perhaps the Secretary of State can say a little more about the previous case we discussed here, namely the floors. Does he have a status update on that? Finally, I ask what it means for the National Real Estate Company. Has anything changed in the way we run these kinds of projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. I've been called to the Chamber for a question about the Rijnstraat. I am not prepared for a question on the latest state of the Turf market, which Mr Middendorp is now asking for. It seems to me that this can be done through written questions. I'll answer that then, because I'm not going to do that right now. We will talk about the Binnenhof. The House will soon receive a letter on this subject, but that is another very different subject. But the lessons and experiences I have learned over the past year will certainly be applied to new projects, because that is what we need to learn from. This applies not only to the client, the government, but also to the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	About the Rijnstraat, the Secretary of State answered what I could squeeze into this mission impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Middendorp. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions.
