ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then I'll go to the last question. It's Mr. Omtzigt's. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Environment and Living. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA, for his question on unanswered written questions concerning the rejection of the right to rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you have a rental house below the rent surcharge limit and that rental house becomes more expensive every year due to the rent increase, it will once be above the border, above €720. Then you are entitled to rent allowance in the Netherlands. You can't need a rent allowance for a few years because you make enough money. But suppose your income drops, for example because you become unemployed, in welfare or retired, because your partner dies and you become a widow. Then according to the Council of State, you're just entitled to rent bonus again. You then have a slightly higher rent than many other rentals, say €800, but a low income and then you need that rent supplement the most. This has been a dispute for a long time, but the Council of State was very clear in July 2019: these people are entitled to rent allowance. Nothing happens in July. Nothing happens in August. Nothing happens in September. In October, as a Chamber, we decide to ask when the government will implement this. Those parliamentary questions have been there since October and I just want them answered within a week, but let me take an advance on three questions. The first question I would like to take an advance on is: can people who currently have an income drop just apply for the rent allowance? Two: how are you going to write down all those people who have applied for a rent allowance in recent years and who, according to the Council of State, were entitled to it and say that they were entitled to it? And how many people are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Omtzigt, who indeed accurately describes the situation that this matter is about. Written questions have been tabled on this subject. It has not yet been possible to answer them at this time, but the intention is to send the answers to the Chamber at least before Christmas. Hopefully that corresponds to the deadline that Mr Omtzigt has in mind. Those answers are done together with the Secretary of State for Finance, who currently defends the Tax Plan in the First Chamber and therefore could not be here. Indeed, the question refers to the judgment of the Council of State which shows that an acquired right to rent is re-lived when the creditor again meets the income and capital test. Mr Omtzigt raises three specific questions. Can people apply for the rent allowance? How, according to the Council of State, is this being dealt with? And how many people are we talking about? I think it is the easiest thing to do is to include these questions in the answer to the questions that have already been asked by Mr Omtzigt, because I would not be able to give an estimate, especially on how many people we are talking about. But I think it is right that we should go into this in the letter of application when we answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm really amazed here, especially after what we went through last week with the surcharges. Here is a ruling from the highest court in the Netherlands, the Council of State, from July last year. Look, we don't have the numbers lined up, okay, but if I ask the person responsible five months later how a citizen can get the right to what the highest judge grants, the answer is: I don't know. How does this work? How can anyone now assert their right to something to which they are entitled? These are vulnerable tenants. This is a very clear statement from five months ago. I'm just expecting an answer to that today. Where can they apply for it? I'll tell you this: on the Tax Office website there's a corner where you can apply for it, but if you ask for a test calculation, it's not in the exceptions. So if you ask for a test calculation and say "I have a situation in which I have a right to it," it says: you have no right, but there are exceptions. If you click on "exceptions," then the exception of the acquired right is not even included. So five months after the Supreme Court's ruling, you can't get justice. I ask the Minister how we can ensure that this can be done today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	I must always be very careful with promises that can still be made today, but I understand the urgency that Mr Omtzigt is putting forward here. Those people are just entitled to it. From the moment of the ruling, that is also the ruling that the Tax Administration has to work with. I hear his point about the test calculation. I'll check it out. We will make sure that we include in the answers that come something about the point of the test calculation and why it is not included in it. Because that can wrongly give people the idea that they do not have a right, when they do have a right. I think that is the point that Mr Omtzigt wants to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	I assume the questions will be answered this week, so not before Christmas, because I want to be able to talk about them before we go into recess. I can only be very clear about that, because I am impatient, and everyone here knows that, but five months after the ruling of the Supreme Court, some impatience is justified. To make a small misunderstanding clear: it is not just about the people who are applying for it now, it is also about the people who requested it before. That's gonna be a very difficult group to figure out, but can't I assume that the IRS can enforce a judge's ruling? If you can't do that already, then what happens? These questions have been there since the beginning of October, so they have been between your departments for 12 weeks now. There's been some rappels, too, so it's not by accident that you're standing there today. How come today there is simply no answer to a rather simple question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	In my view, the Secretary of State for Finance indicated earlier that he wanted to be able to answer a number of questions in connection with the CAF case. So that's part of the delay notes that I think have been sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	No, the delay...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Just a moment, Mr. Overzigt. The postponement letter was sent to the Chamber on 29 October, which was a month and a half ago. I can imagine that it is complicated at the moment, because of the changes in portfolio, but I would nevertheless like to call on the Minister to send the written questions to the Chamber as soon as possible, but also to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I very much hear Mr Omtzigt's appeal, namely that he would very much like to have it this week, so that there may be another opportunity to discuss it further. I'm gonna do the best I can for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	A point of order? I know that your colleagues have been here before and have all asked two questions. There may be a discussion on the point that does not include the second question. I've heard that question here at the rostrum. We're gonna talk about that sometime. But you can't ask a question more than twice. It really has to be a point of order, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	I do not have to ask a question, I have a point of order. We must take our instruments seriously. If we start here with a Secretary of State who does not answer, which requires a second question, that is a mockery to us as a Chamber. It is quite a mockery that a minister comes here who cannot answer questions of Parliament, just factual questions. We have to take that seriously. You will allow these written questions to continue, and I agree with that. I think they take precedence over something topical. But this is a mockery to us as a Chamber and I hope you will include it in your consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have just made the point that those questions should be answered. Mr. Nijboer, don't repeat again how important it is, because I just share it and we all share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	I know, Mr. Chairman, that you share that. But I actually think that the Secretary of State for Finance should come to the Chamber to give the answers, because I am not getting any answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yeah, but I can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	It's okay to suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	No, no, no, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'll make that proposal. I believe that the Chamber is entitled to the information it is asking for and no reply has been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Nijboer, I'm really gonna interrupt you. There are written questions that have not been answered. I let them through. Those questions were asked to the Minister for Housing and the Environment. It's right here. She has promised that she will answer the written questions this week. You also have a point of order? Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr President, may I also make a point of order? You are quite rightly going to tell the Minister that the questions need to be answered. I also have a set of questions about eRecognization. They have also been in the various ministries for a while. So my question to you as President would be to make sure that there are rappels going to the govern ment to answer those questions which have been open for some time this week, so that we can debate them next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	I will pass this comment on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	I'll give you the floor in a minute, because you're the only one who hasn't asked questions yet, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	Whoever saves something has something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'm curious. I say to Mr Van Otterloo: Mr Krol has also asked two questions. No, you're right, Mr. Van Otterloo, you're coming back. But I will first go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	So you see, the keeper wins. I have just heard colleagues ask a number of questions and ask questions again. We do that a lot. I find it really impossible for the Minister to just say, "I don't have any answers." For five months. Last week, we had a heated debate about a group of people who have been greatly short-staffed by the Tax Administration. Those people are watching again. They see that the highest judge makes a ruling, but then the cabinet waits five months. What signal does the Minister intend to send to all those people who are looking and wondering: am I entitled to it or not, where am I? What kind of signal are you sending?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think it is very important that we ensure that these questions can be answered carefully. The questions have been asked and more time has been needed. You also know that, among other things, the Secretary of State for Finance has been in a process with you which has also been spent a great deal of time. We want to answer this question carefully. So I hope that's the signal that starts from this. We will really do our best to answer these questions as quickly as possible, as Mr Omtzigt has also asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Azarkan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	We have seen how we have had to recall five or six times to get information from Mr Snel. Surely this Secretary of State shouldn't use that as some sort of way? It's not acceptable...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	It's the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	Yes, it is indeed now the Minister; recently appointed. The verdict was in July. On October 29th, we received a letter of postponement, and now we are finally standing here. It is not acceptable for the Minister to say: yes, I am here for oral questions, but all I am telling you is that you will receive the information in two weeks' time? That's a mockery, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	I think it is important that we answer these questions carefully. We'll really do our best to do that. And we will also do our best to meet that deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	Okay. That signal has been picked up, I say to Mr Azarkan. Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u37	If the Minister and the Secretary of State manage to answer the questions together, I would also like to see a programme of information about these answers. It should also be made clear that all those people who missed this and who didn't know they could get the rent subsidy are still being pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u38	I think it is a real point that we should ensure that the ruling is well known to the people who are entitled to it. They need to know what they can apply for. That is why I think Mr Omtzigt's test calculation is a real point. So let me make sure that in the offer letter with the answers we also return to this point and what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. I see Mr. Ommzigt back at the interrupting microphone. The CDA has also been twice, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u40	I have a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u41	That point of order is very much used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u42	Sure. I would like to ask you whether you would like to send a letter to the cabinet stating how questions are answered here. I didn't submit these questions this morning. I submitted them on Sunday night. So there's been a day and a half to prepare this, plus the twelve weeks. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to inform the Cabinet of your views on the way in which these questions are dealt with. Because Question Time is also there for us to get answers. And these questions are probably about some thousands of Dutch people who missed the rent allowance. And they too would like to hear an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u43	Yeah, clear. I can tell you, Mr Omtzigt, that this has indeed been a major problem in the past, but it is now almost impossible for these deadlines to be exceeded. And if that is the case, then the written questions will be converted into oral questions, as has happened today. I can tell you that works very well. In addition, all departments are recalled every week that written questions have to be answered within the agreed deadlines. But I'm sure I'll take this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Then you have reappeared six times on these questions, because they have been six weeks past the delayed deadline. I'd like to see the letter you send to the cabinet to make sure we just get answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u45	You've just been, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr. Chairman. I support the request that you send a letter to the cabinet, because I really think that we should get answers to the questions asked here in Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u47	Good. Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for her presence and also for the commitment to reply to those written questions as soon as possible. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
