ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the VSO Modernisation of funding for government training, with one speaker. That's Mr. Van der Molen from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2017, we held a written consultation in this Chamber on the modernisation of official training courses. We are now before the summer of 2019, so I thought: it is time to table a motion. Here's to it. At the time of examining the proposals for modernisation, there were a number of hesitations at the Chamber about the accommodation of graduate courses at the VU and also about the impossibility of a post training course to make a different choice at a later date, also because the funding now goes straight to the VU and no longer takes place at the level of graduate training. If we look at the current situation and the discussions on the possibility of joining another university, which does not apply to all the training courses that are currently in the VU, we think it appropriate to table a motion on this matter. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the modernisation of the financing of the training courses has been a means of paying the funding directly to the training courses to the Vrije Universiteit (Vrije Universiteit) by means of the lump sum;]] [[having noted that the Minister has agreed with the VU to leave the funding at VU if a post training course changes to another university;]] [[Whereas professional training should be able to maintain an independent position vis-à-vis VU;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the initial structural funding and to adapt the payment of the lump sum to the VU;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. dossier/31288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	I see Mr Bishop on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	Oh, excuse me. I was watching you very much and not the interrupting microphone. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	I had the impression for a moment that the chairman didn't want to see me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	No, that's lame. I always want to see you. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	Great. My day is good again. However, the wording of the operative part requires some clarification. Does the motion mean that if a post training leave the VU, that post training falls back on the financing of the lump sum scheme for that post training? I am referring to the original structural funding. Or is the intention of this operative part that the post training leaving the VU may take away the amount awarded under the arrangements for that post training in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	The point that the motion seeks to make, also on behalf of the VVD, is the following. Institutions that have chosen to be placed at the VU have received funding for this in the past. But now there is a new division within the VU. At a time when a degree in office chooses to move to another university, for example because of philosophical considerations, we consider it essential to offer that possibility. As far as we are concerned, this includes the possibility of financing. Mr Bishop says: "Yes, but we are now a few years later. There has been a slightly different division. That has been agreed and you may not be able to return to that original amount." I'd like to look at that, because I can imagine that something has happened in the meantime. But what I'm trying to prevent is that a ministry education can move but has to leave the budget behind. I would find that unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Bishop. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	I share that intention. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But perhaps it would be a good idea if we could look at the implementation and perhaps come up with a slightly modified wording so that there can be no misunderstanding about it. Is Mr Van der Molen prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	I'm willing to do that. It may be a bit difficult to do that in this short VSO, but that willingness is there. I will come back to that, also in consultation with Mr Tielen, who has tabled this motion with me but is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	Good. I give the floor to the Minister. Maybe she can say something about that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. It might be good if we look back at what kind of agreements were made at the time. With the change in funding made at the end of 2016, the agreement was made that the seminar would be free to commit to a different educational institution than the VU in the future, but not to take part in the individual funding. That is the agreement that was made at the time, and all the training courses agreed to it. That's the deal that was made with all of us. There was broad agreement. At that time, the agreement was also made with all of them that this way of organising would be evaluated in 2021. Those appointments weren't made for nothing at the time. An important reason was to maximize the funding of official training courses, in which it would continue to be possible to develop new professional training courses if needed. This approach has also been chosen because it promotes coherence, efficiency gains can be made and leads to synergies and connections. Those goals are important. At the time, all these training courses agreed with the whole set of agreements. It's getting a little complicated to say right now: one wants to leave. Then we're gonna pull a piece out of that structure and then it could just be that it's not right anymore. I therefore reject this motion because it explicitly contradicts the agreements made both in the Chamber and with all the training courses. When it comes to orthodoxy specifically, I'm willing to give you a coulance. There is a remaining amount from the previous five-year scheme of about €140,000. They can get that, but I'm not ready to change the lumpsum at VU right now. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	The Minister has a clear position. Given the choice of principle in the motion, it is also difficult to argue against it now. What I would like to add is that the Minister states that agreements have been made with those concerned and with the Chamber. I think differently about the latter, otherwise I wouldn't be standing here right now. We didn't finish that discussion in the Chamber at the time. That has been an omission on the part of the Chamber, but that means that I will return to an agreement that has not been agreed with us. Now that we have completed this, I believe that I and the CDA are free to submit this proposal. But I heard the Minister clearly. I will take a look with Mr Bishop to see if the motion still needs modification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	I apologise to Mr Van der Molen. You are quite right that the discussion with the Chamber was not concluded at the time, but the agreements with all those involved, including all these institutions, were made at that time. We have all agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	All the motions tabled this morning will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber; we will meet again later today in another room.
