ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the Collective Social Affairs and Employment Act 2020, Section 35275. I warmly welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, as well as the Members of Parliament, the support, the people in the public gallery and, of course, the people who are following this debate at home or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u2	I suggest we get started quickly. First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan and Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Collective Social Affairs and Employment Act sees small changes in different laws every year. This year it is just as different, because with an amendment we have taken a nice step which makes the lives of 36,000 families much more rosy. Together with the Christian Union, the CDA and D66, the VVD has found a solution to a problem that many parties in this Chamber saw as a thorn, namely that parents whose children are going to study before the age of 18 start internships and/or have a side job with which they earn just too much, no longer have the right to child benefit and, in some cases, the child budget. We've talked about this a lot in the Chamber. I know that spokesmen from about all parties recognize the messages of concerned people. The many concerned e-mails from parents and the results of the policy screening of child schemes have motivated me to continue looking for financial space to change the rules. And I'm glad this worked out. It cannot be explained that one parent of a child aged 16 or 17 does receive child benefit and the other parent does not, just because his or her child goes to HBO or university at a younger age, or because his or her child has a secondary job or is internship from an MBO education and therefore earns just as much. However, while recognising the problem, money is not yet readily available to amend a law. Because it's a lot of money: 54 million structuralally. You don't get that kind of money from anywhere. That is why the VVD is pleased that we have found a way to fulfill this long-cherished wish. We do this by not indexing child benefit for one year. This means that next year the amount per quarter will remain equal to the amount that parents receive this year. This has helped a large group of about 36,000 parents greatly. We are therefore using this collectible law to solve this problem by means of an amendment, so that parents affected by this situation will be entitled to family allowances from 1 January next year and will be entitled to the child-related budget depending on their income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u4	It is indeed a large sum, 54 million. The VVD is the party that always pays close attention to government spending. A temporary solution will be found for 2020. We're gonna find some of that tonight, too, I think. But my question is actually: how does it go after that, in 2021, 2022, 2023? How will that be paid? Because it's a structural expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u5	By not indexing once, you have structurally cleared an amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u6	Yeah, an amount cleared. Up to the length of days or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u8	I want Mr Renkema to finish his question first. Then I give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u9	I do not know how far the VVD is going to look in the future when it comes to government expenditure, but does this mean that the way in which we have now regulated family allowances applies to 16- and 17-year-olds up to the length of days?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u11	Okay, thank you. I also saw a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u12	I agree with Mrs Nijkerken that this will cover her proposal until the end of the day. That's exactly my problem. Why did the coalition choose to just take this money with a big cheese bowl over all the parents who are now receiving child benefit? I am very much in favour of finding this solution, but why is it that the money is going to go away from, for example, a single mother in welfare, who certainly doesn't have that much money and for whom that money is just very important?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u13	Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that the SP and the VVD are in agreement, as well as the rest of the coalition, about the purpose for which we want to settle this. You may make a different choice when it comes to financing, because you have brought it up before. I think the choice is justified. It's about €4 per quarter. It is a very large group; about 1,883.000 families make a bit of adjustments to receive child benefit for a group of about 36,000 parents. It is at least €1,200 per year. And in some cases these parents are entitled to the child-related budget. This amounts to up to €5,000 per year. Again, $54 million isn't something you can just get out of. We thought this was a justified way of getting the money out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u14	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u15	Now Mrs Nijkerken is explaining her proposal to me. That won't be necessary. I understand the proposal perfectly. In fact, I wrote it myself for three quarters and filed it a few months ago. Then Mrs Nijkerken voted against it. The only point I didn't write down was that cover. And that's exactly where the core is. Of course, €16 is a very small amount for you and me. We make good enough money. It is precisely because people who have to check every month whether they have a few euros left in their accounts because they have to shop, that they are now faced with a discount to arrange something that can be arranged in many other ways. How does the VVD justify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u16	That's what I'm doing. If you spread it over a very large group, the effect is the smallest for everyone. I acknowledge that for one €4 is more than for the other. You choose a different cover. I also read your amendment. That affects the middle incomes, it makes work pay less and it increases marginal pressure. That's your choice; that's your choice. We'll make another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u17	I'll come back to my question. If I understand correctly, the VVD says: we do not mind that for everyone €4 goes off in length of days. So even if you're on the social minimum and you get less €4 per child per quarter, that's actually just a good choice up to the length of days. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u18	They get a one-time €4 less, because they're not gonna get any less. The amount is not indexed, so next year the €4 will not be added. The following year, they'll just be indexed again. I would also like to mention that the child-related budget is simply indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u19	Finalizing, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u20	If you index the year after, that's from that lower amount. So that loss that someone has of €4 per quarter lasts until the child is 18 and doesn't receive child benefit anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u22	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u23	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm about to come to a conclusion, too. As happy as I am with this, I'm taking this moment to be honest. For in recent days I have received many e-mails from parents who are currently in the situation that they are not entitled to child benefit partly on the basis of the rules in force. To them, I just want to be honest and have less good news. In my search for 54 million, along with the coalition, I found no extra money to settle something with retroactive effect. In any case, I am pleased that we have been able to settle it for the future from 1 January. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u24	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Kwint. Mr Kwint speaks on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party unfortunately had to be elsewhere at the last moment, so he asked me to speak on his behalf too. So I will try to keep the number of unkind comments about the PvdA to a functional minimum! Let me start with a positive one. Most of my time I am a spokesperson for education, where I regularly amend amendments that usually do not happen. My score at Social Affairs is, despite the fact that it's all going in a somewhat unusual way, a lot better. For example, in February, on behalf of the SP, I submitted three legislative changes to the child-related budget, two of which have since been taken over. However, I would like to inform the coalition that there are still a few points of improvement, namely that they will be taken over in the future when I submit them, and not a few months later, with source and coverage. Anyway, lifelong learning; I would also like to give that opportunity to the cabinet and the coalition. The first proposal is somewhat abandoned by the Cabinet, even with an emergency law. The child-related budget is now being compensated for by everyone, just as we proposed in February. And while we are meeting at this good time, I would like to know from the cabinet what it suddenly brought to this understanding. Because the arguments put forward by the cabinet, which I applaud in general terms, were literally those of the SP, only a few months earlier. The second one we are discussing tonight: the coalition amendment. From now on, all parents with children under 18 receive child benefit and/or child-related budget, even when the children are going to study. That was once abolished because those children were still receiving study funding, but then not re-implemented when the study funding was abolished by a monster coalition in this Chamber. Oops, I forgot. Not that the Chamber and the Cabinet have not been informed, because the SP, but also the SGP have been working for a long time. That is how we made this proposal during the same debate in February. According to the Cabinet, it would not be appropriate at that time and it was better to have this debate at a later date. Well, that later moment lasted almost nine months, after which the debate was cancelled by the coalition at the last moment. The same coalition that voted away our proposal and then, two days after the end of the debate, suddenly presented in the newspaper a proposal that was far too much like the SP and SGP proposals. Now we, as socialists, believe in community property. Since I was not sure that Mr Stoffer would take part in the debate, I also found an appropriate basis for him, namely in the letter to the Ephesians, which calls for each other to be good and compassionate. So yes, then we have to behave accordingly, but somewhat striking it is. I am also a spokesperson for copyright in my free hours. If we had put our amendment to music, we could probably have sued the coalition for violating our copyright. This last proposal has also been copied sloppyly, because as far as coverage is concerned, our proposal has been read less well; I was just talking about it with Mrs Nijkerken. To stay in the copyright metaphors: the coalition parties appear to be a bad cover band of the successful musical duo Kwint and Stoffer. The proposal to fix this injustice will soon be paid for by the non-indexation of family allowances. A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice in common, but the coalition of Rutte III apparently isn't that smart yet, because it again serves as cover. When the cabinet presented this to the child budget in February, we warned the government parties, because the income effects would be quite considerable. Six months later, the cabinet came to the miraculous understanding that the income effects were rather severe and had to be repaired by an emergency law. Now they're trying again, this time through child support. So that's the same problem. Yeah, it's only $4 a quarter. I wrote it down before I knew that Mrs Nijkerken would say it to me through an interruption. That's nice and nice, but if you're on welfare, €16 is nicely taken. With the income of all of us here in the room, you don't even notice that difference. I can draw on my own experience, even with the SP's payment scheme. But the money isn't being collected from people who make as much money as we do. I am therefore counting on the Cabinet's negative pre-opinion on the amendment, otherwise we will have to fix it again in six months' time. There are many ways to achieve this, in principle noble, goal in a different way. Let me mention a few. You can cut the child benefit to an income of €250,000. It's the same result. Members of parliament then also keep their family allowances, even if they are married to another Member of Parliament. Parents with children will then no longer receive child benefit from this income from 2020. Yes, that seems somewhat feasible in itself. Who needs the money more? That is the central question. The welfare mom or the people with a quarter of a million? Another option, I would mention just a few of them, is to give households with a collective income above about €100,000, €101.193 to be precise, less childcare allowance. For example, you don't get a third of your childcare costs back from €125,000, but a quarter. That seems to me to be doing a bit. So in the meantime, we have a lot of alternative coverage. As a fourth cover, we could contribute the general resources, so a similar coverage as the Cabinet provided for an emergency law this summer. I'm fine with that, too. I'm very curious to know what the cabinet thinks is the best of all these coverages. I have tabled an amendment, but if the cabinet says 'we do not like this cover, but we like one of the other cover provided in Mr Kwint's speech's text', we are happy to think about it. Finally, something else: some time ago, my colleague Mr Leijten here in the Chamber raised the injustice that, if you are chronically ill, you cannot rely on the childcare allowance. Maybe it's a bit of a projection, but I was thinking of the inconvenience of the Secretary of State that she herself didn't really understand how this injustice could have arisen. If you work yourself and your partner is in daily business because of a chronic condition, you are actually actively encouraged by the government to stop working. The cabinet indicated that I would like to settle this, and I am happy to do so, but only from 2021. Then why didn't you tell me? We're talking about a collectible bill right now. This is an excellent opportunity to repair minor shortcomings in the legislation. Then why don't we just do that? We are still waiting for the Secretary of State's pre-opinion on a motion by my colleagues Leijten and Alkaya. It was submitted to Mr Snel, but he said: you must really be with Mrs Van Ark, because he knows a lot more about it than I do. So here's to it. Could the Secretary of State take that pre-advisation into account in her reply? Then, on the basis of the answer, we can decide whether we will eventually table an amendment or not. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u26	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bruins. Mr Bruins speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u27	Mr. Chairman. We're dealing with the SZW Collector's Act today. That sounds boring, but it's not. That is indeed because of the amendment that my colleague from the VVD has already announced. An amendment that means good news for a lot of parents. That's right, there was a weird twist in the rules on child support. When you're 16 or 17 and you go to college or make some money, your parents suddenly no longer have the right to child support. It expires, while this group had already taken away the study funding. This injustice has been a thorn in the eye of the Christian Union for several years, and so I am pleased that we can now rectify this mistake. Tens of thousands of families with young students will be able to count on financial support, and that is good news. It is an amount of at least €1,200 if you are only entitled to child benefit up to €5,000 if you are also entitled to child-related budget. That is substantial money for the families involved. The coverage of this measure has already been changed. It is found by not indexing child benefit in 2020. This will spread the coverage over as large a group of parents as possible. Child benefit is increasing this period of government. The child-related budget is going up. The child benefit will increase €20 to €30 per quarter next year, depending on the child's age. In the case of indexation, child benefit would increase by €4 by 2020. The latter is not the case because of the amendment. My group believes that this is an explanatory measure. Moreover, the child-related budget is simply indexed. So that's where extra money comes in. The tables we received from the Ministry showed that this way, with the non-indexation, the income effect is very low. This will finally solve the unfair situation that has been going on for years for a specific group of parents. My group is happy to sign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u28	Thank you very much. There is another question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u29	It is clear that we differ on the coverage found. What did Mr Bruins think of the coverage we just presented during my speech? For example, stopping child benefit above 2.5 tonnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u30	Oh, that's a very acceptable cover, too. The advantage of the coverage contained in this amendment is that it is distributed among as large a group of parents as possible, so that the effect is actually a round-off effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u31	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u32	So I would venture to doubt that €16 for someone in the assistance is a rounding difference. We could also choose not to give the money to people who do not need it and thus, however small it may be, to avoid the negative income effects on the lowest income. That must be something Mr Bruins likes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u33	I just said that next year's child benefit will increase €20 per quarter for young children and €30 per quarter for older children and that the child-related budget will also reach 1.1 million more by 2020. The children's schemes are thus making a great deal of progress in this period of government and in particular next year. So this is really the time to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u34	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Weyenberg is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Both amendments now before us solve something for parents whose children are 16 or 17 years old and who are studying or who, according to the rules, have too much extra earnings. That's about 36,000 parents, isn't it? Both amendments simply give all these parents the right to family allowances and, if that is the case, the child-related budget. That sounds like good news to me. Mr Kwint puts the emphasis on the differences, but I would like to stress that it is nice that the whole Chamber is actually saying unanimously here that this is just sensible. That is sometimes different, I say to Mr Kwint and his colleagues. It is true that this is a lot of money, namely 54 million. And about how you're gonna pay for that, you can disagree. If coverage is chosen not to index the one-off. That, and Mr Renkema rightly said, indeed has a long-term effect of €4 per quarter. I think it would be a good idea to do it this way, especially when you consider that we are spreading the costs across as large a group as possible. We will continue to do so at a time when child benefit is going to rise significantly next year, which also applies to the child-related budget. It was also important for my group to cover this measure within the child schemes. Yeah, you could have chosen alternatives. I find it less attractive in this case. My group is also in the electoral programme for making family allowances dependent on income. But I didn't agree to that with my colleagues. That is what I think is very acceptable. Mr Kwint said that he actually thought plagiarism was a good idea, and then he said ten minutes of what wasn't right. Apparently, it was a bit different from his own proposal. It is a bit like saying that the heavy metal of Mr.Kwint and my love for Bruce Springsteen is actually the same, because they are both on a CD. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u36	Mr Kwint has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u37	No, no, no. Two minor factual corrections! I was talking about plagiarism in the sense that a bad cover band is plagiarism. So I mean: the scope is about the same, but not quite as good as the original. I don't like heavy metal anymore, but hardcorepunk. Those were the only two factual corrections, and I just wanted to pass them on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u38	On that last point, Mr President. I stand corrected!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u39	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Renkema and Mr Renkema speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u40	Thank you, Mr President. In English we know the expression "the devil is in the details." We sometimes use this in Dutch as small mistakes can lead to big problems. But there is also a somewhat older pronunciation in English, namely: God is in the detail. This means that paying attention to something seemingly small, often gives something beautiful. That statement is attributed to many people, including a furniture designer and architect, the American Mies van der Rohe. He said, "You don't want to cut down on little details if you want to make something beautiful." Do it right and do it thoroughly. In formal terms, we are talking today about the SZW Collecting Act, but the focus is of course on the coalition amendment that regulates that parents of children who are already receiving study funding, salary or an internship allowance are also entitled to child benefit and child-related budget. That is, in itself, a very good intention. After all, child benefit is a concession for all parents to support them in raising and caring for their children. And all parents have that responsibility, at least until those kids are 18. Then it is also logical that the allowance also applies to everyone, regardless of the income of the children. GroenLinks therefore fully agrees with the content of the amendment. The way this is going, I'm a little surprised. It reminds me of an earlier motion tabled by the coalition parties, already a few months ago, on removing the distinction between the market and the government in the employment agreements. Something's being arranged from the coalition, from the chamber. The Secretary of State can then say that it is the wish of the Chamber that she carries out, but I do wonder why this should be done in an amendment to a collective law. Why can't this be dealt with in a budget? Why has the Secretary of State not seen this coming and it is regulated in the 2020 budget, but also for all years after? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u41	A question from Mrs Nijkerken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u42	If you will allow me, I would like to give a small answer to the question put by Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u43	Mr Renkema does not in principle ask the Members of Parliament any questions, but I will allow you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u44	Very briefly, perhaps just to clarify. Through the collectible law it is possible to correct this curve with effect from 1 January next. If we had done that through the budget, we would have had to wait another year for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u45	I'd like to respond to that. Of course, we have that collecting law when there are technical flaws, but this is just a policy choice that you make up to the length of days. That is why I think it is important to include this in the multiannual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u46	There is always a connotation in Mr Renkema's contribution that we do not regulate it on a multiannual basis. I'd really like to say that we do. What we're doing here, until we ever change the law, means that we've just arranged the child benefit for this group of parents with children aged 16 and 17 in the law, long-term. Mr Renkema may want to do that through the budget, but I do not think that the idea that it would be a one-off or a temporary one is actually correct. Maybe it's a good thing the Secretary of State says something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u47	Let's get this straight. I understand this is multiannual. Up to the length of days this will be corrected and has income effects. It's the route that matters to me. Are you doing this in a budget and looking ahead, or are you doing it in a rather technical law that is the collectible law as far as I'm concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u48	That is true, but it is remarkable that Mr Renkema's name is also included in an amendment which does so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u49	As soon as there is an amendment which we consider to be inappropriate, we will, of course, table another amendment. I don't think that's a problem at all. That's politics. I just want to get to the second point I want to make. This is about the income effects of the measures. I am glad that Mr Kwint has asked for a letter on this. When you study it, you see in the annex percentages that anyone can think of: that's almost nothing. For higher incomes it is rounded up to 0.0%. That's a safe choice. However, we are not satisfied with the coverage that is being proposed. We've had the discussion before with the child-related budget. Then it was also about one time not indexing. We were against that at the time, because it is strange that you have the cost of such a measure coughed up by the target group itself. That's what she came back to. But in the letter we now see that this measure really only affects the lowest incomes in the Netherlands. We could have predicted that. This is the case anyway with an equal amount for everyone when it comes to child benefit. For families with high-income children, child benefit is in fact often superfluous, but for the lowest incomes and the social minimums such child benefit is essential, sometimes essential for survival. €4 per quarter does not seem so much, but for people with children living at the minimum social level every euro is important. This makes the difference between buying your son or daughter a little bigger gift once or twice when it's his birthday. Yeah, it's really true, God is in the details. In other words, this is a very bad cover. GroenLinks therefore supports the SP amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u50	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u51	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint does not deny his origins, because I think I once read that he was at the School with the Bible in Bleskensgraaf. But just when he was quoting, let me have been rapturing with my wife! That was not about reducing child benefit, about what is not coming to us, but about raising one of our daughters. I searched Ephesus, but I couldn't find exactly what he was talking about. I'm sure that'll come apart. The most beautiful thing I found there was that grace is with all those who love Jesus Christ. Well, I guess I'll give that back. That may not have been what he set down, but it is the heart of the gospel. All right, Mr. Chairman, let's get to the subject. 'Cause with collectible laws, you gotta pay attention. It seems only technical, but it has been shown a few times that there is still more going on. Under the Collecting Act 2018, there was a stingling about the intention of the Collecting Act 2013, especially about the position of own risk carriers in social security. And now, with this Collecting Act 2020, we even have two substantive themes: the own risk carriers in the Disease Act, again, and the child benefit for underage students. Those are the points I would like to make briefly. On November 9th, the NOS headlined: Parents with children under 18 are still entitled to child benefit. That was good news. My predecessor, Elbert Dijkgraaf, already called attention to this in 2014. My colleague, Roelof Bishop, also told the Minister of Education that he would not rest until he had finished this unfair arrangement. Together with the SP, we have repeatedly drawn attention to this. I even believe that the paper said that we were walking the fire out of our boots, but it didn't help much. I do like the fact that a solution has been found. However, like Mr Kwint, I was less pleased when I read further in the NOS report, because it will eventually be covered by not raising child benefit next year. I think it's just getting messy with indexing when you take all the child schemes, but I also wonder if it's really necessary to help underage students by harming all the parents, especially those who were just referred to: the parents at the bottom of the financial building. That way there's a bit of a aftertaste for me. So I am also looking very positively at alternatives that better distribute that pain. However, I have some difficulty going directly with Mr Kwint's amendment. I'd like the Secretary of State's explanation of that. Actually, my ideal would be to have that paid by bringing back the childcare allowance for people who earn more than a tonne. I'm already hearing positive sounds from the coalition. That's good for me. Anyway, that's what we're looking at. Let me briefly mention the own risk carriers. The government has removed the proposals on the position of own risk carriers from this legislative proposal. I understand that, but I get the impression that this means the commitment to work towards a more balanced playing field between the UWV and the own risk carriers is going on the long track. I mention the threat of wage sanctions, which does not encourage employers to become their own risk carrier. How can we at least give these employers more clarity about what they have to meet when they are reintegrated? The double role of the UWV as a public performer on the one hand and supervisor on the other side also remains to my liking. That is why I ask the government to provide at least more insight into the number of wage sanctions imposed by the UWV per private and publicly insured employers. It is also important to see how small and medium-sized companies get a serious choice for private insurance. In fact, my question to the Minister is as follows, but it is now the Secretary of State who is representing this. That's why I'm asking her if she's gonna take this seriously with the private performers. That is the real question that lies under this item for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u52	Thank you very much for your input. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he wants ten minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u53	The next item is the first term of office. I'd like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer the questions. There are also two amendments that we would like to have an opinion on. Perhaps that will also be possible in this first term. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u54	Thank you, Mr President. In view of the time, I will indeed try to do so as briefly as possible, but of course completely, because it is a legal procedure. We're talking about the Collector's Act SZW. These are normally technical changes, but in this case there are also a number of changes to laws in the field of the Ministry of Social Security, mainly as regards social security legislation. It is a lot of technical matters, but in this case some of your Members have also tabled an amendment specifically to family allowances. We have talked about this a number of times, not only in this period, but also in the years before. What is widely perceived in the Chamber as an injustice I share that; it has also come to light in the screening of child care schemes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The amendment tabled by the coalition will ensure that it does so. Mr Kwint has also tabled an amendment to that effect. Let me thank the Chamber for its contribution to this discussion. For the sake of completeness of the discussion, I will respond immediately to these amendments. A number of questions have also been asked about them. First, the amendment tabled by Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan and her colleagues. This removes the requirements for 16- and 17-year-olds. Their coverage is provided by not indexing family allowances in 2020. This amendment follows the substance of the policy review, which I have just referred to. I note that this amendment is feasible. I see a cover that will cover you. What this coverage does through child benefit is to spread a minimal effect over as large a group of parents as possible. I wrote a letter to the Chamber about income effects. I would point out that in 2019 child benefit was increased by a considerable amount, so I say to Mr Van Weyenberg that if you want to do this in this way, this is the time to do so. That is why I leave this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u55	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 10. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u56	Mr Kwint has tabled an amendment and has made a number of suggestions in his speech. I note that the subject of the amendment is the same. That's very nice. It underlines that this wish is widely shared. The amendment provides for coverage by increasing the phasing-out rate of the child-related budget from 6.75% to 7.3%. I can also say in the direction of Mr Kwint that abolishing the requirements for 16- and 17-year-olds follows from the policy review. On that point, I agree with the amendment, but that does not apply to cover. The higher phasing-out rate increases marginal pressure, which is politically undesirable. This was also the reason why, in the spring, a similar amendment to the Bill on the increase of the WKB phasing-out limit was not recommended. That is the position I am taking now. Mr Kwint has indicated that I have even more opportunities to do so, for example by reducing the childcare allowance for incomes above €100,000. Apart from the fact that the coverage will no longer be possible by 1 January 2020 because this will be done by means of a decision that has a front-end procedure, namely the childcare allowance decision, I also have a substantive objection. This is that the reduction has either a limited or negative impact on the employment rate. We have seen in recent years that if there is a fluctuation in the amount of the child care allowance, which creates a lot of uncertainty for parents and providers about the amount of the supplement. This has a long-term impact on the image of parents about the costs of childcare. This can therefore also affect the employment participation decisions taken by parents. Mr Kwint has also indicated that, and I appreciate the suggestions he is making that the coverage can be provided by limiting child benefit to parents who earn less than €250,000. This suggestion also reflects the impact of the policy review. But when it comes to coverage, child benefit is now independent of income. Adding an income limit to the child benefit makes the implementation of the SVB much more complex. We have seen in the cabinet that multiple practitioners are having a difficult time when regulation is increasing in complexity. The cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter. Furthermore, the collection income can often only be established afterwards. Parents around the income limit then only know afterwards if they are allowed to keep the child benefit. I don't think so. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u57	Before you do that, there is an interruption by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u58	The Secretary of State advises my amendment with the explanation that it has a limited but negative effect on certain income groups. That's right. This applies only in exactly the same way to the coalition amendment, but the negative effect does not come from the high middle incomes, but from those who do not already have a euro. Why is this acceptable coverage, when it is a negative effect when the income effect reaches the higher middle incomes and the amendment therefore receives a negative opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u59	I have allowed a variety of factors to be taken into account in the weighting of the amendments. The financial component is one of them. I note with a number of groups that this period of government has been increased by the investment in child benefit. If you are looking for a coverage within the child schemes, different parties have indicated this and the cabinet also takes that over the family allowance, then the increase in child benefit by about €88 as of 1 January 2019 is therefore the identification to say: this is the smallest possible effect, to be distributed among as large a group of parents as possible. I think it is legitimate in that weighting to say: then I give this amendment judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u60	Mr. Kwint, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u61	But the increase in family allowances comes to all incomes, as the Secretary of State said a little later. So it doesn't matter. We're gonna do something extra for all the incomes, but we're gonna take some off at the lowest incomes. That's a weird choice, isn't it? Is it really so bad with the implementation of the SVB, for example, that they would not be able to handle one simple line in the system, namely 'it ends with a collection income of €250,000', if politics wanted to do so, regardless of whether I am going to get a majority for that? Is that bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u62	I do think it is important to point out here that this is a one-off non-indexation. That doesn't mean money's being taken away. If I sell that against the extra amount of child benefit that went to parents from the government agreement as of 1 January 2019, I think this is a reasonable proposal. When it comes to implementation, I see that it is precisely child benefit and the child-related budget that are being praised, for example by a body such as the Ombudsman, because they are simple arrangements. As a general rule, I would like to ensure that arrangements which we now see are properly made to the right people and that they have a very low margin of error are made more complex. That is why I think the feasibility is important. This has been indicated in the General Political Reviews by many political groups in this Chamber, and I think that is a serious argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u63	The Secretary of State will answer the questions. So I would like to mention once again that the amendment to item No. 11, submitted by member Kwint c.s., has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u64	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint asked why the child-related budget was subsequently indexed. I would like to reply by saying that on this point I carried out the Peters motion, which was adopted by the Chamber when we dealt with this law. He asked the cabinet to look explicitly at the purchasing power effects during the summer talks. I did. That is what the cabinet has done and that has led to the change as it subsequently went to the First and Second Chambers. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked about the own risk carriers. I can give him, on behalf of the Minister, who indeed has this in his portfolio, the answer that we are paying attention to the attractiveness of the system, including for small risk carriers. Re-integration is also a subject of discussion, also in the light of the Stoffer/Wiersma motion. The Minister keeps the Chamber informed, because there has been a written round of the Permanent Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. In any case, it has led to what is stated here in the collectible law, but in this respect the Minister also keeps his finger on the pulse. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mr Kwint about day care and childcare allowance. I did indeed exchange views on this in oral Question Time, but I also discussed earlier questions from the CDA group, which had sent this message and indicated that people using the Long-Term Care Act could not make use of childcare allowances and that this would lead to unfair situations. I share that view. This also means that I have been able to find money in the spring decision-making process to make this arrangement possible. I aim to do this by 2021. We now have execution tests at the IRS. If that leads to other insights, I will let the Chamber know, but I think it is important, looking at the motion that Mr Kwint points out, to point out that people who use the Long-Term Care Act are a relatively homogeneous group that is indicated, so that we can also make this possible. In other forms of day care, which are very valuable for people who may be in situations where they have to combine work, volunteer work or other tasks with care, the group is much more heterogeneous. It is not true that there is nothing for this group, because people who are involved in this can turn to the municipality, ask for a social-medical indication and can therefore also use childcare. I do intend to work with the Wlz as soon as possible, but looking at the heterogeneity of the group that uses day care under the Wmo, I unfortunately cannot go into that. Mr President, if I have counted correctly, these were the questions. Otherwise, I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u65	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Kwint. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u66	Yes, an enlightening question. I understand that it is a rather heterogeneous group, but if we all decide that we do not want to exclude long-term chronically ill from the childcare allowance, then we can decide that for the whole group, regardless of how heterogeneous it is. Then you can just decide that for the group as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u67	I hear my own words reverberating in my head and I realize that I said "daycare" where, of course, I meant "daycare." That's also a bit of the subject. I found and believe that the request to allow access to the childcare allowance from the Wlz was feasible and desirable. This also has to do with the manageability of a measure, because it is a group of people who are indicated from the Empire and who are therefore also clear in terms of implementation. That doesn't mean I'd really like to take that image away from people who have something to do with daily spending from the Wmo. There is, indeed, the socio-medical indication, which allows people to use child care when they are self-employed. I don't have any signals that this is going to go wrong. I do have contact with the municipalities to see how this goes, but first of all I think it is a very valuable and good step that we can arrange this for people who are covered by the WlZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u68	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u69	No one disagrees with that. That's definitely worth it. The problem is only that you notice in a very large part of the decentralisation of social schemes that if you make the responsibility for this dependent on the implementation of the municipalities, differences between people will arise. I do not find differences between people so bad, but differences in support between different vulnerable people with the same similar problem purely and simply because they live elsewhere, I do find a problem, especially if it can unintentionally limit their partners' participation in the labour market. Is the Minister prepared to see if she can do anything, however heterogeneous this group may be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u70	The Secretary of State, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u71	That was a compliment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u72	Thank you for that. The reason why I do not want to do so is that people who, through the municipality, through the Wmo, are often involved in daily spending, often also have to do with other regulations of the municipality. The same applies to the socio-medical indication when it comes to childcare. Then the whole situation for which they ask for support is also with the municipality in one hand. I believe that this will improve the integrity of a solution to the problems facing people. That is why I do not intend to change this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u73	A question from Mr Renkema. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u74	I had asked another question about the route of decision-making. We are talking about a collecting law tonight, so in fact we are talking about a lot of technical, poor policy issues. But it turns out that the discussion about child support has a history. My question was: why is it not simply regulated in the drafting of the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u75	I have also indicated in the policy review of child schemes that this is an injustice which I acknowledge and see in the Chamber, but for which I could not find cover within the funds. I've been honest about that. I didn't like that, but within the arrangements I have to implement under the coalition agreement, this space wasn't there. If a number of political groups, which together have a majority in the Chamber, change or amend an appointment because they have a common goal that lives wide in the Chamber, that is something for me that I can say is up to the Court's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u76	Finalizing, Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u77	Do I actually hear the Secretary of State say that she thinks that the cover chosen by the coalition is acceptable, but that if she had been able to choose she would have chosen a different cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u78	I didn't have any cover myself. What I do now weigh is the coverage proposed by the political groups, namely to offset this over the group of parents receiving child benefit. I note from my responsibility, which also means that family allowances would be increased, that I consider this an acceptable level of cover. That's why I'm giving the judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u79	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That is not the case. Then we have come to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-18.u80	I would like to inform you that we will be voting on the amendments tabled and on the legislative proposal next Tuesday. Then I should like to thank the Secretary of State and her support for their presence and input. The same goes, of course, for Members of Parliament and their support. Thank you for the interest here in the Chamber and for the people who have followed this debate in a different way. Thank you, of course, for the support here in the Chamber at this late hour. That concludes the meeting.
