ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the new ruling practice. I warmly welcome the Secretary of State and would like to give Mrs Leijten of the SP the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm not allowed to say it from the Secretary of State, but a ruling is actually a tax deal between companies and the Tax Administration. In that deal, in that agreement, it will be checked whether the increased business structure is lawful or not. We've always heard that it's all right, but when something goes public, there's always shit on the marble and the company is always busy paying as little tax as possible. That's why the Tax Administration is now saying that it's just not going to shut down certain constructions, because they're so risky for tax avoidance that it doesn't want to make an appointment about it anymore. That is a very good step, but it does lead me to submit the next motion, because if you no longer want to approve that construction in agreements, why do you want to allow that construction at all? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Administration will no longer make agreements with companies if they use an informal capital structure;]] [[noting that this choice was made because this construction is often used for tax avoidance and that this cannot be the purpose of rulings;]] [[considers that the continued authorisation of informal capital structures should be seen as an incentive to tax avoidance;]] [[considers that fair taxation should be the norm;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber as soon as possible a law prohibiting the construction of informal capital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u3	Then there is a motion which cannot be surprised by the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State intends to publish rulings between companies and the Tax Administration, albeit only a summary of the agreements;]] [[noting that the publication of rulings as a whole is seen internationally as "best practice';]] [[considers that the usefulness of publishing is likely to be lost if too much information is omitted in the summary in order to be able to control the ruling;]] [[calls on the Government to publish rulings in its entirety and anonymised, including the underlying documents, and including (the order of magnitude of) amounts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u4	"Best practice" is bad Dutch. I mean, best example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Snels, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The general discussion on the tax rotations was a nice debate. The Secretary of State and the Cabinet are really taking steps forward to strengthen the rule-making policy and improve transparency. I think that transparency is particularly important because there has been a lot of mistrust about the black box that is the conclusion of rulings. The Secretary of State has announced that he will publish summaries. I think that is a step forward. He's gonna evaluate it, too. That's fine, too. At the same time, we have had the debate on whether there is a need for something extra because it remains difficult to assess summaries on the content if you do not know the underlying rule. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet will publish summaries of all new tax rotations and that this is a step forward in a transparent ruling policy;]] [[Whereas it remains difficult for the outside world to assess the quality of summaries without being able to see the underlying tax rotation;]] [[noting that there are no fundamental objections to the full anonymised publication of tax rotations;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an executable mechanism whereby external parties such as scientists or other experts can, upon request, gain insight into the anonymised tax rotation in summaries of tax rotations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Leijten, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u7	In the debate, I mentioned this somewhat domestically as a kind of WOB procedure for tax rotations. I fully understand the reluctance of the Secretary of State. This motion asks him to think about whether there is an executable mechanism in which we can see both the underlying rulings and the content, so that the outside world also gets a little more insight into how these two things are connected. I believe that this is important for openness, transparency and trust in the system of tax rotation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have indeed had a good debate, in which it became clear that real progress is being made. I have also seen a Secretary of State who says that I want to combat tax avoidance structures as much as possible and I simply want to go to a clear regime. This means that we are very dependent on people who can carry it out. During the debate we also talked about the fact that it is important for the Tax Administration to have good, quality people. It would be such a shame if they suddenly went with the knowledge to me to say 'the other side', because that is of course also knowledge that is interesting for business. This is particularly true, because it is not only based on what these tax arrangements are, but also because it is really a position taken by the Tax Administration on a particular issue. I am not going to make a motion, but I have two questions on this matter. I think that a competitive clause does not exactly fit, but one might think of a cooling-off period of the ACM, for example. I would like to know what the Secretary of State is about and whether there is anything to say about how many people have gone to business from the APA/ATR team in the past. Is that really something where you see some kind of brain drain happening, or isn't the soup being eaten so hot? With these two questions, I wanted to conclude my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u10	I asked Mr Slootweg in the first term of the debate: if you no longer want this construction of informal capital to be concluded by the Tax Administration, because it often causes tax avoidance, should you not ban it at all? Then Mr Slootweg asked me for time to think about it, so I would like to know if he has an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u11	That's something else. I am referring to the argument put forward by the Secretary of State in that debate, namely that it is going to come back to agreements, or actually a ruling from the Supreme Court, which, I say, was made in 1978. Therefore, it is not so easy to say: a line through it. I thought that was a convincing story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u12	We often see that statements by the Supreme Court with a certain intention that was not foreseen by a tax law are being opened. This is certainly the case with informal capital, but we also see it in other cases. Then your reaction may be that you lie on your back and think: well, unfortunately, you can avoid tax. But you can also amend that law, which will end another trial at the Supreme Court, because it is not the intention of the law. And I'd love it if the CDA chose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u13	Finally, what I really care about is that we have a decent rule of law in this country. I believe that the practice that is now being introduced will give us a whole new dimension and that justice can develop in this sense. I'm not shy about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I call Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talked about the new ruling practice. The Secretary of State has turned the rules heavily, which I thought was wise. He's also going to publish summaries so that people get a better view of what's agreed. This must be out of the image of shadowiness; it must be nothing more and nothing less than carrying out the law. In the view of the Secretary of State, the summary is the best way to make this transparent. My group supports that, but I would like to keep my finger on the pulse if that is indeed better than, for example, the anonymised publication. In the debate, the Secretary of State has promised to look after one or two years to see if this will give him what he thinks. I will not table a motion, but I would ask him to give us his first picture after one year of practice, and not to wait two years. Can he give us an initial answer to the question immediately after one year: can he give us a good picture with summaries? Mr. Chairman. I also asked to what extent as a company you actually have to pay administrative costs, or some kind of amount, if you get such a ruling. The Secretary of State was reluctant and I understood his fear. It shouldn't be a deal, in which you pay to the Tax Office and get something in return. Of course, I don't want to. At the same time, I think it is an interesting idea to find out. The Secretary of State said I'd like to chew on that. I would ask him to look at this seriously and to send us a note in September, in the direction of the Tax Plan, with the advantages and disadvantages and its final weighting. I don't want a deal either. "'I pay, so I decide," nobody wants. But I would like to take this issue seriously. I tasted willingness, and I'm putting that question into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State have the answers ready? I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to get my papers sorted out, but then I'm gonna be able to go right on. I agree with Members that it was a useful and good debate. Part of my agenda came forward and at the same time I was encouraged from the left and right of the Chamber not to leave it at that, but to look further. That makes sense, therefore, that I now see a number of motions and questions coming back again, because they were parts of the debate. Let me start by answering the questions and then deal with the three motions. First of all, Mr Slootweg's question on the ruling team. The APA/ATR team already exists and will soon become an even more central team. These people see a lot of structures coming along. This knowledge may well be so useful that a lot of companies are trying to take over these people. Shouldn't there be a competitive clause or a cooling-off period à la ACM? You can look at this in two ways. Let's take a look at the facts first. Is this happening? Over the last ten years, the number of people moving to business can be counted on one hand, even on less than one hand. So that doesn't happen massively. Fortunately, within the service we are still able to offer these people interesting work, even if they want to do something different after a few years. In principle, I am also not opposed to people coming from business to work for the service, because there is something to learn from that. Vice versa, I also welcome the useful application of the knowledge that the service has of how the law is to be interpreted to business. I therefore have no objection in principle. Then the question might still be whether exactly those people are being bought away because of their knowledge of a lot of information. The answer to that is that they have exactly the same information as a whole lot of other inspectors and people working for the service. They need to know the law. They have to apply the law to cases. That's exactly what ruling does. We make everything they decide whether or not to issue a ruling transparent. In itself, therefore, there is nothing that makes these inspectors more interesting than another inspector, department coordinator or someone who is a case manager at a large company. So I really don't think it's necessary. For me, the question is whether people will eventually leave is therefore the most important question. You see people leaving eventually, but actually much more towards jobs in the service itself and within the government. But I think it's good to keep thinking about that. If we're going to see another trend, we should definitely do it. A competitive clause is funny in the case of the government. Because the funny or special thing about a government is, of course, that it doesn't really have competitors. But Mr Slootweg already indicated that we could also look at it in a different way, for example around the ACM. I hope that I have given a little insight into what these developments are like. Mr Van Weyenberg had two questions. The first was about the evaluation period. Indeed, we choose to look at how the new situation works. We're starting July 1st. We think that by publishing summaries, we are actually giving the maximum information. Part of the Chamber asked to anonymize and make public everything behind it, which are sometimes fistful transfer reports. I don't think that's gonna give you much extra information. On the contrary, I think such a summary would help more. But suppose I'm wrong and people say this isn't for the best. Then perhaps it would be wise for the committee with external partners that we have before to look at that again. We've planned a two-year period. Mr Van Weyenberg is now asking to make that one year. Then the pole we can look at is less large, but in itself I have no resistance to see if that works. In reply to his question, I say: that is good. We will ask that committee to get a look at this after the first year and to do something with it. I think it would be wise not to do that for just one year, but to keep looking at whether it gives us the information we want. He asked his second question as a result of the discussion we had about whether you should ask companies for compensation for the work that the Tax Administration has to do. I told you to be a little careful it's not like they're buying a service, because we don't want that. We want everyone, whether you are a large or small company, to be able to use the services of the Tax Office. So we have to be a little careful with the idea of asking a fairy for that. On the other hand, I also said that I understand that it costs money and information. Shouldn't you be doing it here like a passport, which we're also asking for money for? Even though I wasn't immediately cheering, I think this is worth it to really take a look at. If Mr Van Weyenberg's question is to come back to that in the autumn for the Tax Plan and to work out these ideas a little bit further, I am happy to do so. That is what I am saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u18	My question concerns the evaluation of the summary after one year. How does the Secretary of State intend to establish that these summaries are better than anonymous publishing? What question must have been answered or rejected?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u19	That is a question I will put to that committee. Too much has arisen here the idea that a ruling is an appointment or a deal. You said that yourself a little in the introduction, but it is not. It can't be. It can be nothing more or less than the application of the law. We want to be completely transparent about that. We always did that by publishing the policy and by the end of the year indicating what happened. The Chamber said she actually wanted to be able to see it by ruling. At first I said: whether you are getting very much better, I don't know, but let's do it anyway. That's what I promised. So we're gonna do it by ruling. A ruling is not some kind of policy piece to which you can see what it is. It's really a fact complex that's appreciated. My opinion is that it is much more useful if you summarize and read what is actually happening, than if you have endless pieces. Anyway, I said, let's do that. If it turns out that people find and that the committee says that it is difficult to take the core of a ruling out of the summary, then I am quite prepared to look at another possibility. The fact that I do not choose to do so has to do with a few things that have been raised in the debate. One. They're really thick pieces that I have to anonymize. That takes me a lot of time and energy and I don't think it's gonna get any better. Two. At the time we publish such a ruling, we should not make it clear which individual company it is. As you try to indicate more case information anonymized behind it, it becomes more difficult to maintain that there is no clarity about which company it is. But we have to keep it up. That is the balance I have chosen. I explained that in the debate and now again. But I'm willing to look at that a year earlier than we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u20	I've heard this a lot, so that doesn't really need to be repeated. That evaluation is, of course, promised to dissuade my motions in due course. That's why I'm asking that question here. What kind of question are you going to ask the committee? What question should be answered? Because this committee is not independent. It's from the IRS and the Ministry. The committee has exactly the same reasoning as the Secretary of State, while scientists say that publishing anonymously gives details that you do not see in a summary. That's exactly how you know what's going on. How is that committee, which is not independent, going to evaluate that? The result, as the Secretary of State has now replied, is in fact already established. I wouldn't like that. The Secretary of State has just admitted to Mr Van Weyenberg that he is going to see if you can somehow give an account to the person who gets such a ruling, an appointment, a deal. Can he therefore indicate for the Tax Plan what question that committee will answer to see what is better: a summary or a fully anonymized publication?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u21	The question to the committee will be: do you think that the adapted policy, the new system, will help to make it more transparent? Once again, we have to start with this policy, but I can already hear Mrs Leijten draw almost all kinds of conclusions. I won't do that, but we'll put that question to the committee. With everything you do new, I always think it's pretty quick to evaluate after one year. Anyway, I see the importance of the Chamber, so I'm not gonna stop it. I embrace it. But I guess we really need over a year to see if it helps. Then I shall not go into the suggestion that there are officials and two externals and that it was a sort of biased committee. We have had this discussion before, but that is not explicitly the case. The composition was made at the request of the Chamber. Then I'll get to the motions. Mrs Leijten is right that many of them are about transparency. In fact, Mrs Leijten's first motion says that if you think that you should not give advance rulings and guarantees in respect of informal capital, the whole basis actually falls and the law needs to be amended. In general consultation I have indicated that Mr Slootweg has just given a correct summary of why this is not so simple. The Supreme Court has said that costs incurred in the Netherlands must be treated in a business manner. That is indeed a strong principle that we know. At the same time, I don't think it's weird that when we say that we don't want to give any advance assurance about it, something can come out sooner or later, but as long as the law is the law, the fact that I take my ruling practice doesn't matter. I think I've tried to explain that too. I also said at that time that if you want to have a little more insight into it, it is important that we have material and figures about it. A few months ago, I promised the Chamber an investigation into it. I agree with you that we should look at this. It is only on the basis of those research data coming in 2020 that we can do something. All in all, the motion asks me to present it as soon as possible. I say that I will not do that, I want to wait for that research to be carried out in 2020, and at that point that question will come back on its own. So for that reason, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u22	I know I can't change the mind of the Secretary of State, because he's stuck in his mind and he needs investigations when everyone sees the shame of tax avoidance. I think it's remarkable. There was a ruling on the tax unit, also a construction that we have, that the law should be applied also for other companies from across the border. Then we got an emergency law with retroactive effect to prevent some kind of income leak. So it was possible then. The Secretary of State can change the law. That's why I'm asking him to change the law. If the Secretary of State doesn't want to do that, we'll do it ourselves. We're working on the liquidation-loss scheme. Well, then we're gonna have to look at that informal capital ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u23	I know that Mrs Leijten would like to, but I think it is wise that we should amend the law when the research promised also gives us direction. I always think it's wise that you collect facts first and then you make your choice. Of course, Mrs Leijten is completely free not to wait for that. It doesn't change my judgment. Then I come to Mrs Leijten's second motion. In that she actually says: I think it is important that the whole is published and anonymized. I have just given three considerations which I have already mentioned in the AA. So for that reason, I advise against this motion. The third motion belongs to Mr Snels. In that he actually says: fine, that evaluation but can't you already develop some kind of mechanism where outside experts other than those we already have can give even more insight into the whole? In the AO I said not to disagree with the idea that we would like to share that information. That is exactly the essence of the policy we are working on here. That's why we're taking these steps. Only, I really think we should have sufficient insight into how that works before we can take any serious steps. So I get where that wish comes from, but at the same time I think it's important to try the way we're doing it right now. I think that for the reasons I have just indicated, namely that we are at greater risk, that it cannot remain anonymous and that it will really do a lot of work for us without giving additional information. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u24	There is another question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u25	Nor was the motion formulated in such a way that the Secretary of State was instructed to develop an enforceable mechanism. So that doesn't apply to all the rulings that other motions are about. It applies to a sample of rulings, precisely because we want to have some sort of test to the outside world on what is the connection between the real tax rotation and the summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u26	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u27	I think that's important. I'd still like to give the Secretary of State to think about such a mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u28	The motion states that there are no objections in principle. I've said that before. But I have also said before that, in addition to fundamental objections, you may have a number of other objections. And I turned it in, too. So there are more than just no-goareas of principle why I say that it seems unwise to me. That is what I have indicated. Mr Snels asks: can you not come up with something to make it workable? Well, what I made up is that we're gonna do it the way I suggest. We're going to evaluate after a year. Then we'll have to show you how it's going. I actually hope we have a better view after a slightly longer period than a year. And then we'll see if Mr Snels' alternative might be possible. But he's moving a little too fast now. After all, it would be strange for me, while I announce that we are going straight ahead, to look for an executive mechanism on the right or left. I see the precision with which the motion was designed, but I don't think my judgment changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u29	Rounding up. Last chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u30	Then, of course, Mrs Leijten is right. We're getting an evaluation from a committee in a year. That committee will then determine the connection between the rulings and the summaries. That is fine with me, but that does not cause the lid of the black box to open. It is precisely that mechanism for externals to take a look at this connection from time to time that I think is a good idea anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u31	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u32	I totally agree with that, because we also have those outsiders. That's the one we're asking to take a look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u33	So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-10.u34	On Tuesday we shall vote on the three motions. I'll suspend until 2:00. Then we're gonna talk about the tax liability for multinationals. You're on a three-minute break.
