ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today we begin with a question from Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the malfunction of national emergency number 112. I call Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last night, the Minister received a letter from KPN: the 112 platform had no operational problem, but it was not accessible. Everything went well, just it didn't work. 911 didn't work and 911 is the lifeline for people in need. It really can't be that if you're in distress and need help from the police, the fire department or the ambulance, you'll get De Telegraaf on the phone. Then something really, really went wrong. How could it have gotten this far? Why wasn't there a backup? Why wasn't there an alternative? And if there was, why didn't it work? Why does KPN say everything worked fine, only it didn't? In 2012 we also had a big problem with the loss of 112. We also called Minister Opstelten to the Chamber at the time, and we made clear agreements at that time. "No lost calls," said the minister at the time: anyone who is in distress and calls will always get 112 on the phone. The minister said he'd take the lead. He said we're gonna back up, we're gonna make an alternative. I wonder why, after all these years, it turned out that there was no backup and that there was no plan B. I wonder how it is possible that not another provider, for example, will take over if KPN fails, because I find it strange. I really appreciate all those cops, all those firefighters and all those relief workers who were sent out on the streets in their spare time, but it was embarrassing to hear people who had a heart attack or people who saw someone drown were told: go to the nearest police station or hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing we can discuss this with each other right away. Yesterday there was a failure of several hours in KPN's systems, which also had a major impact on the accessibility of 112 and 0900-8844. The first priority of me and all partners, all security regions, is the safety of all people in Dutch society. In this situation, it is also a question of restoring services and aid as quickly as possible. In addition to the letter I sent you earlier this morning, I will outline what we did yesterday. Point 1. The security regions have immediately deployed the roadmap, the Operational Roadmap Generic 1-1-2 in the event of disruptions to support services. They have also scaled up directly to GRIP 2 and the police have also set up a National Operational Coordination Centre. Furthermore, a National Staff Large-Scale and Special Action, a so-called NSGBO, has been activated by the police. Alternative telephone numbers have been published from the regions via media, social media and regional NL-Alert messages. A national Dutch alert message was also sent later. Unfortunately, an error was made in the first national NL-Alertbericht. Of the two phone numbers, one was wrong. How exactly that could have happened, as I mentioned in the letter, is currently being investigated. When it was clear yesterday that the crisis went to a final solution, I asked the board of directors of KPN to come to my ministry together with a technical expert to speak with myself and the technical experts of my ministry to at least have an initial analysis of a number of matters. I had a good and solid conversation with KPN. We have given a first explanation of the problem and its solution. As I said in the letter, it is a system problem at KPN and not so much in the platform 112. KPN has agreed to start immediately with what I call "increased digital dike surveillance" on 112 specifically. In last night's letter, KPN confirmed that commitment in writing. Following my earlier request, it also made a commitment that all cooperation will be given to the competent authority and any investigations. I would like to work with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate, but first with KPN, to find out very carefully how the malfunction at KPN could have occurred and what its consequences have been for the accessibility of the emergency services. I would also like to see how crisis management has gone. The inspection of JenV, the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the Telecom Agency have already said that they will start a quick scan. Finally, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the deployment of all emergency services and of all those who went out on the streets yesterday and were present in public space. By the way, this is also part of the operational roadmap. Mr. Chairman. Then there was one more question from...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u5	Very briefly. A concrete answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Van Raak had another question about the backup system. There are backups in the systems. Yesterday's first analysis of KPN is that with those backups something did not go well in operation. That is why we quickly switched to the operational roadmap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u7	The minister actually says the same thing as KPN: everyone actually did well, but yes, he didn't. Everyone followed the operational script, but 911 didn't. 911 is the lifeline for people in need. We agreed years ago: if there is a disaster, if people are in need, then anything can go wrong and anyone can make mistakes, except 112. That will always be the lifeline for our citizens. The government has taken responsibility for this, and yet it has not happened. That also means that we in the Chamber cannot accept this. We were promised that there would be a backup. Apparently there is, but it doesn't work. How can a backup of a lifeline, of 112, not work? Why wasn't it chosen for another provider, another network to take over when KPN's case is down? Only then can you make sure that 112 is always in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. Again, KPN's system has three backups, as explained in detail to me last night. For certain reasons, all three of those backups didn't work. I have instructed KPN to find out in the foreseeable future what those reasons have been and to answer for them. My ministry has an Operational Road Map Generic 1-1-2 with the security regions in case something like this happens. It is also the first time that this has happened. That playbook was triggered immediately. We'll be accountable for that, too. It is also necessary to carry out independent inspections to determine whether this has actually been completed as it should have been and whether things might have been done differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u10	If three backups of KPN don't work, if three backups, three locks, three insurances, three seals don't work, then isn't something thoroughly wrong? How is that possible? If there's such a mess at KPN, then we have to be sure that another provider, another phone company, will take over? So I want the Minister's commitment to ensure that this backup is not only owned by one provider, by one network, but also by other providers, other networks, so that we are not only dependent on that one. The Minister mentioned NL-Alert. Some people have received five messages, including one wrong message. Other people got four messages. Other people haven't gotten a message. The Minister is now also planning to abolish the air alarm. Why don't we just put a line through that? Why don't we at least keep that system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u11	Let me start with that last one right away. Last week, in the Chamber, I said that there was an old commitment about the possible abolition of the WAS posts that I would come to the Chamber before that decision was finally taken. I said in a letter to the Chamber some time ago that in any case, I am going to push the planned introduction to the beginning of 2021, so we are not ready for that. That is the answer to the last question. Then I come to the other points. Mr Van Raak raises a number of very valid questions. They need to be thoroughly examined. I want a first thorough answer from KPN in the foreseeable future to that question and to other questions. This will then be independently examined or validated. Then we know exactly how and what. At the moment, it is important for all citizens in the Netherlands to know that KPN, as I call it, has set up some kind of increased digital dike monitoring at 112.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'm really sick of this. In 2012 it was promised that this would never happen again, so for seven years people have lived in false safety, because it did. There are a lot of words, but the conclusion is that no matter how many backups there were, it didn't work. The emergency services did work. I would very much like to express my appreciation for that. The Minister wrote in his letter: "In the interests of the needy, the continuity of the system is now a priority." What does that mean? It didn't work. Are the back-up measures giving priority to it, so that it will work? And at what time will the Chamber be informed? It doesn't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u14	As far as priorities are concerned, it is indeed the highest priority. That is what I agreed with KPN yesterday, as I said to Mr Van Raak. Security and assurance that KPN will not fail again will be increased. That's what I wanted to say first. Secondly, in the foreseeable future, I would like to think of a period of two to three weeks from KPN as an initial in-depth analysis of what has happened here. Then I would like to see, in good consultation, also with Mr van EZK, how we are going to validate this thoroughly independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u15	I have listened carefully to the Minister and I have heard everything that has been said about it. In the end, it is irresponsible to say that such a line is simply out and all those backups are not working. I therefore find it difficult for the Minister to say that we are going to examine it thoroughly for a number of weeks and that it is being validated independently. What the hell was going on here? Why didn't this work? What is KPN's first reaction to indicate how this could happen? Isn't this a breach of contract at this point, too? Is it not so tendered or awarded in the past that this simply cannot happen? These are the questions I would like to put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u16	Those are very legitimate questions, which I cannot answer myself now, but I would not want to, because I think it is up to KPN to first explain why this happened. In fact, I do agree with the previous questioner whether Mr Van Raak is asking me who it was who also pointed out that there are three back-ups. If the system has so many fuses, I really want to know why this could have happened. However, I would like to emphasise that there is the operational roadmap, which I mentioned earlier. In my letter on cyber security two weeks ago, I drew attention to the problem that we cannot rely on analogue options in this world. We are very dependent on digital technologies. For that reason, my ministry has developed a roadmap just for the situation that occurred yesterday, such an unimaginable crisis, such a malfunction in the system. That's not my credit. It's been done before my time. That schematic has been completed, but I am also going to have it examined independently in order to show the Chamber whether things have not gone well there or could have been better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u17	I, too, appreciate individual aid workers who got on their feet yesterday, but I have to say quite honestly. I hear now that there's a schematic on the Ministry, that there's an Operational Plan Generic 1-1-2, but I wasn't devastated yesterday by the measures taken. I thought it was very crumbling. I saw on Twitter all separate emergency rooms passing their numbers. Actually, I'm more concerned about that than about the KPN malfunction. How is it settled with our government at the moment when such an eventuality occurs? What do you think as a minister of that, after what you experienced yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yesterday shortly after the report that 112 malfunctions began, I went to the National Crisis Centre. Of course, I haven't been operationally interfering with things, because then I get in the way of people. It is very important that I have seen that we were indeed going straight to the security regions. We must not forget that at such a time a number of things need to be taken up in the region. Furthermore, the Operational Roadmap 112 focuses on the region. That is what has been done. I understand that people say: I have had four NL-Alert messages. That is often because you move in the car or otherwise from one region to another, but it may also have been for other reasons. We also need to look precisely at whether this has happened in the right way. You will have noticed: that message has an incredibly nasty sound when it comes in, so you will notice. One thing is clear: the police and the services have really made every effort to clarify how and where they could be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u19	The Minister says the playbook is complete. I can tell him I wasn't in the car, I was in one place. I got four messages, wrong information, wrong phone number, spelling errors. It gave a very messy impression. Crisis.nl gave no information. There was a lady who e-mailed me because her oxygen equipment went missing. She called the G.D.D., who said call 911. A malfunction at KPN should not happen. I agree with Mr Van Raak.... but my main point is how there has been communication with citizens. I think there are incredibly many holes in the operational plan. I would like a little more reflection from the Minister that this crisis management really went wrong yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u20	It's way too early for conclusions if things went sideways. A number of security regions have distributed regional NL-Alerts with regional telephone numbers. The Dispatch Services Center has requested that this be done nationally. There could certainly be some duplications in that. We also need to look at whether there has been too much information on some points and others too little information, but according to the operational roadmap, all the efforts have been made at the moment when the digital technology - let us be honest - has, as far as I am concerned, failed in an inexplicable and unimaginable way. But we're gonna have to look into that to see how it's been exactly in those hours between... what's it been? Five minutes past half past four and about half past eight has walked. We can't draw any conclusions about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u21	Second question, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u22	I find this very amazing. The Minister actually says that we have finished the operational roadmap and that has gone well; we can still see what could be improved. I can tell you that in the meeting I was in, it was not the feeling that things were going so smoothly and that the Netherlands really had this in the claws, with recommendations that followed each other and which certainly people who are less literate could not be wise. I see a minister who thinks: there was a playbook, and that is well settled; I am prepared to look at small points on the i. But I see a Netherlands thinking: hey, there has been incredibly little good crisis management done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u23	I have just said that we must have an independent examination of whether crisis management is going to end and all the things that have happened have gone well. I already told you. I have also said that it is also necessary to look at whether the road map fits in perfectly with the problem. We'll just have to check that out. I am not at all satisfied with this at the moment; let us be clear about that. We just need to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u24	May I say that I was very surprised that KPN came so quickly yesterday with the announcement that it would not be a hack? Let's keep that announcement to KPN, but I was surprised. I very much agree with Mr Van Raak that you should actually have two providers and that backup should be somewhere else. And another point about my supporters. A lot of people in my constituency don't have cell phones. These people didn't get to read what's going on in the paper until this morning. I would very much like to know what the Minister thinks about this. The tip was to go to the nearest police station. Yeah, those police stations have been shut down in the last few years. You'll be old and you won't have a car. Then how do you get to the nearest police station? I do welcome the remark that the air alarm is maintained. We warned about that in 2014. I'm glad that's finally taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u25	I would like to point out immediately that I do not know whether the air alarm would be the solution here. With regard to the issue of people who do not have a mobile phone, I would like to say that not only are there messages being warned via social media and via NL-Alert. These messages can also be obtained via ordinary media, via teletext and fixed telephony. And then it's still very important that it's also in the schematics that all emergency services go out into the streets in such a situation, so they're in the neighborhood to see what can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr Krol's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u27	In concrete terms, my question was: what does the Minister intend to do for the older Dutch? But indeed also compliments: yesterday there were finally more people in blue on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u28	We need to see to what extent there is still a deficit in the effort that has now been made for the particular group Mr Krol is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u29	A 911 malfunction on one of the hottest days of the year and a high risk of calamities. That makes this life-threatening. Since 2012 we were allowed to assume that there was a roadmap that could work well, with a decent WhatsApp and with unambiguous communication without errors, as you might expect from an operational emergency plan. I thought the performance sucked. But I'm assuming this emergency plan has been tested before. When was the last time this emergency plan was tested? What were the results of those tests? And can we get those tests in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u30	I'll give you a letter on that. I can't give up the exact dates as soon as possible. But I'm willing to make sure you get that information between now and a day or ten in a letter from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u31	In addition to what Mrs Kuik says, I would like to get that letter before the summer. "A day or ten" is just after the start of the recess and we shouldn't have that. We need to do this as soon as possible. I agree, in itself, that it should be evaluated. But the situation that has taken place is already an evaluation in itself. So much has gone wrong that thinking should start already. I have heard several parties asking: what about another party? There is now one party with three backups. Those three backups have all failed. I'm going to say, now think about two parties with two backups. Would the Minister care to comment on that? Is there any thought now about another provider who can do this at the moment that KPN goes wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u32	I have just announced that two inspections are already starting with the IGJ and the JenV inspection and the Telecom Agency, while we are standing here, with a first quickscan and evaluation. I also said that KPN should come forward with a first in-depth analysis within a very short period of two to three weeks, so that we can also launch a deeper, independent investigation. From the findings of those investigations it has to be made clear whether you should set it up in a different way from what happened in 2012, with one provider with three back-ups. But in the end, we need to establish this thoroughly, because it should not happen again too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u34	Of course, a lot didn't go well yesterday. I think it's time to thank all those paramedics who went out on the street. I think it would be a good idea in that study, in that evaluation, to think about whether this had to do with saving operations at KPN. The simple detour towards T-Mobile, Vodafone or Ziggo could then be a solution and what the arrangements are between us as a government and KPN. These are questions that are very worrying for us, because I think there is clearly a difference between the 112 platform and just the digital infrastructure that this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u35	I think that last point is very important. This has not been discussed in this way anymore, but there has been no malfunction in the 112 platform; it was a malfunction in KPN's systems. That is why a number of Members have said that Mr Verhoeven was the last to do so, but Mr Van Raak also said that, in the future, should we continue with one provider with some back-ups, or should we set it up differently? The other questions are certainly worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-2.u36	Thank you.
