ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations budget (35300-VII), the Municipal Fund (35300-B) and the Province Fund (35300-C). We have now come to the answers of the Secretary of State, who also replaces the Minister of the Interior. I'd like to welcome him. Of course, I would also like to welcome everyone in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for their input in the first term. I'll start with a brief introduction in a moment. Many questions have already been answered in writing last night, but in order to clarify the chapter layout a little bit, I would like to take the answer in five blocks: firstly, all the questions that have been asked about democracy, with attention to the Remkes Committee, the resilience of our democracy and the issue of integrity; Secondly, the Steering Board, which focuses on the Thorbecke letter, the right to challenge and the new reclassification framework; third, the Municipal Fund, the Step-on-Travel Systematic; fourthly, diversity, which has also been questioned by a number of Members; Finally, but not "least," digitalization, which is also a big block. Mr. Chairman. The front pages of the newspapers today were full of protests at the Malieveld yesterday. There were not only many trucks and cranes, but also a lot of hardworking people in construction, road construction, regular construction, everything that has to do with this country moving on. I was there with a number of colleagues from the cabinet. We were impressed by the fact that people who normally never come to demonstrate go there. Something's going on, too. People are worried and wonder: do I still have a job next week? Can my company still work? And is there still construction in this country? Now the problem of nitrogen is not addressed in this debate. A legislative consultation Living is also planned. That is why, at the request of the Chamber, all the subjects of residence which do belong to the Home Affairs budget are dealt with in legislative consultation. But the beauty of what I experienced yesterday, of course, is that people were angry, that they bothered to come to The Hague, but that I also heard people listening. Those aren't just the members of the cabinet. Members of the Chamber were also present. We do not always have a solution, but listen to the people and get to work seriously, that is what we have to do now. In all our functions, whether in the Lower House or in the municipality or in the Cabinet, we have the responsibility to do the best for the inhabitants of our country. That means that if there are major problems, such as those surrounding nitrogen, we all have to find a solution. That is also the strength of the way in which we have organised democracy in our country. People are allowed to express their opinions. It's being listened to. People are being talked to. We did the same with the activists yesterday, prior to the manifestation. That's something to be proud of, to cherish, especially if you take that offense against what happens in other parts of the world every now and then. I do not want to say that there are no problems in our system, in our state system. There are certainly points of interest where it can be better, but if we compare internationally, I think we are in a country where it is essentially well regulated. That's, I think, good to remind you in advance. Mr. Chairman. The first block is about democracy. There is much to be said about this and much has been said about it by the Chamber. I'd like to be the first to discuss the Remkes Committee's report. Because the last major modernisation of the political system of the Second and First Chambers dates back to 1917. Since then, of course, a lot has changed. People are more prosperous, educated and informed and the world is different. And, not unimportantly, digitisation and social media have taken a huge turn and have created a different way in which people relate to each other. The role of the world and of Europe has become more important. There is greater cooperation between countries, but the role of local authorities is also considerably expanded. All these developments affect democracy and the way it is organised. The key point, however, is that we have to work every day on this democracy, that it is not something that we can take for granted. We therefore need to strengthen that democracy if it is to be necessary. Firstly, on the issue of greater resilience to our democratic rule of law. We really do not need to look only at the developments in the countries around us. Because if a lawyer is wound up in the Netherlands, there is something going on. If mayors and aldermen have to hide in our country, something's going on. We must not let that happen, we must not look away from it, we must act against it. Nor should pressure from outside the democratic decision-making process be distorted within the public administration. If financial interests play a part in this, extra attention will be paid to the integrity of the public administration. That is why the cabinet wants a mandatory vog test for aldermen and we have introduced a basic scan integrity for political ministers. All this to make our democracy more resilient. I will come back to this in the next block on governance. Secondly, our democracy needs to be strengthened in terms of substantive representation. The good news is that the Netherlands has a electoral system that can still be regarded as quite successful and can still count on great support. And, not unimportantly, our country knows very forceful and very passionate administrators. We score high on criteria such as free and fair elections, government control and safeguarding civil liberties, such as freedom of expression. But the electoral system does not always work equally well for everyone. Some citizens are threatening to turn away from politics or have already dropped out. They do not recognise themselves sufficiently in the decision-making process that is taking place here in The Hague. And the dividing line between higher-educated and lower-educated is increasing. This is a kind of new division in society, something the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has already pointed out. Then it's about people who feel like the world is at their feet on one side, and people who feel like they're always in the corner where the punches are on the other side. Those are very disturbing signals. For a healthy democracy, it is important that we do not just accept this. We want a democracy in which everyone can participate. That is why we presented a package of measures in June. The cabinet also decided to change the electoral system. Three variants are currently being developed. The starting point is that the preferred vote, i.e. the extent to which the individual voter has an influence, is given more weight and that individual candidates who run a campaign can be chosen earlier. In our opinion, this strengthens the link between the electorate and the elected. Mr. Chairman. A number of Members have asked questions about democracy. Mr Sneller asked whether the rule of confidence should not be firmly anchored in state law, whether it should not be codified and whether the cabinet would be prepared to carry out a more extensive stress test of our democratic rule of law on the basis of the same idea as, for example, the Rules of Procedure. In its response to the opinion of the State Committee, the Cabinet has already indicated that it shares the concerns of the State Committee. In fact, you could say that the state committee has carried out a stress test on our political system. It has also made concrete recommendations to revitalize that system in order to improve it. Furthermore, the cabinet announced a study on the cabinet formation in a broader perspective. That study aims to carry out the cabinet in consultation with your Chamber, because it really affects the traffic between Chamber and Cabinet. The Chamber is the highest body in our democratic system, as Mr Bosma said in his first term. In this context, the cabinet could at least include the possible codification of the confidence rule. The confidence rule also plays an important role in the formation of the Cabinet; a cabinet cannot function without the trust of the Chamber. On the question of how far the other examples mentioned by Mr Sneller give rise to a review of our constitutional standards, I would like to think a little more fundamentally. The question of codification of the confidence rule could also be included here. As far as I am concerned, it is a matter of reason to enter into further discussions with your Chamber, because this discussion also affects the functioning of the Chamber. It also affects the discussion your Chamber is currently having on the revision of your Rules of Procedure, which we saw yesterday. I intend to inform you about this next spring and also report on the follow-up steps. Mr Sneller also asked for a response to his proposal to increase the role of the Chamber, in particular for appointments of members of High Colleges of State, planning offices, advisory bodies and even for Zbos and agencies. How can you increase parliamentary involvement in these appointments? Mr Sneller's plea sounds very sympathetic. It is a question of strengthening democratic control, you might say. But this does not lead to greater independence of politics from those independent bodies, because the Chamber is a political body in itself. For this very reason, the State Committee on Parliamentary System has, among other things, recommended that the role of the House of Representatives in the appointment of the members of the Supreme Court should be reviewed. This has been advised because it seeks to prevent party political considerations from gaining the upper hand. The State Committee proposes to replace the nomination for the appointment by the Lower House by a nomination from a committee which does not include members of parliament, but which is composed jointly by the Lower House and the Hoge Raad. The cabinet has adopted this opinion from the State Committee. Moreover, I agree with Mr Sneller that checks and balances are also very important in the case of appointments by the government. There is now a balance, because in the end the government must and will always be accountable to your Chamber for the way in which it exercises its powers of appointment. In that sense, therefore, there is always the issue of parliamentary control at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. I understand the oppositions, namely that there will be a further politicisation of it. But when I look at a High College of State as the General Court, I see that the Chamber has a very important role to play in this. For another High College of State, the Ombudsman, we even make that appointment, while the role of the Chamber for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Council of State is actually absent. I simply cannot reconcile that when I look at the role and involvement of the Chamber in the work of the Council of State and the importance of the independence of the Council of State. The role of the Chamber is one of the ways to ensure the checks-and-balances in that process. I understand very well that some agencies... In my opinion, the executive body is entirely up to the cabinet, but it would be nice not to have to know from the newspaper who was selected. A letter explaining the process would be sufficient. But I think the involvement in a High College of State like the Council of State should be much greater. That was the nature of my plea. My request to the Secretary of State is to go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u5	I think Mr Sneller is right on that point. He says that there is some kind of inconsistency: at one High College of State it is and at the other it is not. I can follow him in that. In general, however, I would like to be cautious. That is also the State Remkes Commission by advising, precisely in the example of the Supreme Court, to remove Parliament's involvement. But I cannot deny that it is happening in different ways at the moment. If Mr Sneller's request is to take another look at this in broad terms, so not so much about whether there are more times when the House of Representatives wants to fill in its involvement in appointments, then I would like to do so. The line of the Remkes State Commission is very clear: beware of political interference with all these appointments. That is not Mr Sneller's intention, I understand that very well, but that can be the countermal, the counterpart or the unintentional effect of increasing engagement, which, of course, sounds very sympathetic in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u6	At the Supreme Court we have a vote on who it will eventually be. The state committee does not say "the Chamber must be completely out of it," because the Chamber is also about the composition of that committee, as the Secretary of State described. Let me give you an example. The Central Planning Bureau will have a new director. Whoever it eventually becomes, I have to read in the newspaper, while we have a formal dialogue with the Central Planning Office, they often come here for technical briefings, we have the election programs passed on and so on. But we have zero involvement. In my view, the consideration of consistency at these two benchmarks would lead to a greater role across the board. If the Secretary of State looks at it that way...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u7	Well, I'm looking at something else. The result of your reasoning is indeed that there should be a greater role for the Chamber. But the question is whether it is right to claim that greater role. Let me give you the following example. There is already discussion about the planning agencies, sometimes about the way in which planning agencies work and whether or not they are political. There are experts and scientists there who, on the basis of the models at their disposal, try as best as possible to put the facts objectively on the table, after which a political balance has to be made. If we also make these appointments politically, with the political involvement of the Chamber, then we run the risk of the exact opposite of what Mr Sneller is advocating. He advocates checks-and-balances. We agree on that. But the risk lies in getting us mixed up by the executive, the cabinet, which is accountable in the Lower House, and the role of the Lower House as controlling power. There are therefore models imaginable around the Supreme Court........................................................................................................................................................................................... But I think that we should be generally reluctant that the House of Representatives, with all the good intentions that undoubtedly belong to it, should take over or share that responsibility of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally, on this point, because I understand that there will also be a general consultation on this issue. But that's okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Court's report is being discussed in greater detail. In any case, I am pleased to hear that the Council of Ministers is not a political body.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u10	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u11	That the Council of Ministers is not a political body. Because that is ultimately where many of these appointments are made. I believe that we will continue to think differently, but I understand the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u12	I will not deny that the Council of Ministers is a political body. It's not a club of civil servants sitting together in the Trêves Room. So it is indeed a political body, only with a different mission within our political relations. But indeed, you are absolutely right: we are going to talk about this. So I see this as a kind of introduction to the debate that we are going to continue on about it. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Raak, if that is the case, on his own-initiative proposal, without giving a substantive opinion. But I saw him gloat at Mr Bosma's compliments on the fact that the Council of State has given such an opinion on his initiative that he can or wants to come home with. However, with regard to his question on the consultative referendum and the question of why it was abolished at the time, I should perhaps not disappoint Mr Van Raak unexpectedly. At the time, the cabinet considered it appropriate to propose that this consultative referendum should be withdrawn. Both chambers then confirmed that. The main argument for this withdrawal was that a national consultative referendum did not bring what was expected of it. I think Mr Van Raak can still agree with that. This had to do, among other things, with the controversy about how to interpret the outcome of such a referendum and how to apply for such a referendum. There was so much discussion about that instrument, in the opinion of the Cabinet, that it was not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u13	I share the positive words of the Secretary of State on the opinion of the Council of State. I am particularly pleased with that. I look forward to the debate on this in the Chamber. However, I understand that, after the referendum was thrown into the trash, the Ministry would come up with new initiatives. The Secretary of State also says that there is indeed a major problem with our democracy, a gap, a division, because more and more people are dropping out. I see all kinds of new initiatives, especially from aldermen of GroenLinks and the Labour Party, for challenges, cocreation, code design, walking meetings and network conversations. I don't understand why all that has to be done in English. This is then done under the heading of 'deliberative democracy'. Is the Secretary of State prepared to go with me sometime to............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u14	In fact, the day after tomorrow I go back there and then I talk to people again. So Mr Van Raak is very welcome. That's where we're gonna clean up the schoolyard, so you can join us right away. That's what we call co-creation. The inhabitants of, indeed, Hegelsom may not all know the concepts, but they already do this in practice. So in itself it's... I agree with you that all those words and English concepts that are used for this may not speak to the imagination. But the idea is that the government is not just built up according to Thorbecke's house, and that not only does that give meaning to society, but that there is always the possibility of governments working with each other and governments with citizens or with groups of citizens or with civil society organisations. That is now the strength of our state system. That's not always in the written law. This is also a great deal of unwritten practice that has been established, but I believe that this is precisely what it is really about: are we, as governments, able to do with and for citizens those things that lead to good results? I believe very strongly from my own experience and conviction that this is extremely successful and that we are also distinguished from other countries. Apart from all these concepts, because there may be much more possible, so it is also a bit about giving municipalities room to do things with the citizens in their own way. This may be different in Groningen than in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen or in Zuid-Limburg. That is also the essence of the Thorbecke letter you received last week or two weeks ago. In it, the Minister has set out very carefully the possibilities, that our attitude is that we want to experiment, that we also want to give more room to municipalities to fill that out and that it is not "one size fits all'. That's an English term, but okay. Not everyone has to do it exactly the same way. Variation and differentiation are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u15	The main argument of the cabinet, of the Prime Minister, to abolish the referendum, is that it would be difficult or impossible to reconcile it with representative democracy. Now both the State Commission and the Council of State say that this is not the case. In fact, they say that the binding corrective referendum is a crown on parliamentary democracy, a very good addition, a valve, an outlet, a correction mechanism that fits that representative democracy. Are the Secretary of State and the Government, after the debacle with the consultative referendum, prepared to take a serious look at the opinion of the Council of State, at my proposal and at the opinion of the State Commission and to reopen that discussion with the Chamber? I think that's true, because he's been just as positive as he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think it is good to put aside my congratulations to Mr Van Raak, who are now being interpreted a little more broadly as if they were congratulations on the content of his own initiative proposal. I congratulated him on having received a positive opinion from the Council of State. The cabinet will, of course, consider this initiative proposal. That is a matter for the entire Council of Ministers. So I cannot and will not anticipate that. What I have just said about the consultative referendum is, of course, also the position of the cabinet and we have once again shared with the Chamber: at least this way of referenda does not work, because there is so much discussion about interpretation that a result is multi-interpretable. You don't want that, but at local level, also in municipalities, referendums are now very often used. It is also up to municipalities to do so themselves. That could be surveys, and that could be referenda. There's the possibility of doing that. Mr Van Raak will have to wait for our opinion on the initiative proposal. That's what the Council of Ministers is going to look into.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u17	Please continue. No, Mr Van der Molen still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Van Raak indicated that the decision of the Cabinet to abolish the consultative referendum would not be in line with the opinion of the Council of State. I read very explicitly the opinion of the Council of State in such a way that the Council of State says that only a binding corrective referendum is compatible with representative democracy. In that light, I believe that the Council of State supports the government's decision. But that's not what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u19	Then why do you say it when the question isn't about that, Mr. Van der Molen? Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u20	Well, because we're having a debate here. I think this is part of that. But I do have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes, to the Secretary of State. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yes. That question is about the right to challenge. I understand very well that my colleague's funeral against the Pakhuis de Zwijgertal about this kind of civic participation, but I see it differently. It is indeed about citizens' rights to shape democracy. I therefore have the following question to the Secretary of State. We have received a letter from the cabinet stating that a right to challenge would be laid down in the law, but I see that it is a kind of can-determine: municipalities can regulate this. But actually municipalities would always have to arrange this. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u23	I was just suggesting some cubes. I actually imagined putting the right to challenge in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u24	Okay, that's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u25	I like a little order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yeah, so do we; so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'd like to get out of the way of a little misunderstanding. My comment was that the cabinet, through the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior, said that the referendum, consultative or binding, would not be a means or difficult to reconcile with representative democracy. The Council of State and the State Committee both say that the binding corrective referendum is a very welcome addition to the representative system we have. That's what I said, and that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u29	Well, then you've made this clear. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Middendorp and Mr Krol asked about the possibility for municipalities to hold intermediate elections. They also asked if it is possible to experiment with it. They made this proposal in response to political instability in a number of municipalities, where the need for new elections is evidently felt. If we want to allow interim council disbandment, for example in order to resolve serious administrative conflicts within the municipal administration, this will require a constitutional change. The Constitution determines the term of office of the Council at four years. Exceptions to this are only possible under separate legislation, such as in the case of gross job neglect or, as is more often the case, municipal reclassification. However, I am prepared to look also at the possibilities that an interim council can provide for the resolution of serious administrative conflicts. This is also in line with the attitude put forward by the Minister in the Thorbecke letter, to see what is possible. However, I would point out that this is a far-reaching option, which requires a constitutional change. This will, of course, also have to be discussed with the public authorities. The pros and cons will have to be mapped out. So I am not making any commitment at this point, but I think you should always be open to experiments in this area, also in the context of the idea that you want to solve things that are not going well. But this is not a small thing; it is a heavy thing. I am prepared to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of next year, and also about the discussions which then took place with the co-governments. Mrs Den Boer asked whether, on top of the existing measures, new measures would be put in place to reduce the distance between population and government. That is a very fair question, because I think this is really the heart of the matter: how can we ensure that the government is actually there for the citizen and, not unimportantly, that the citizen also feels that the government is there for him or her? Municipalities are the face of the government for many citizens. This may also apply to the House of Representatives as a well-known place, as the heart of democracy, but in direct contact with citizens it is often the municipalities that play that role. Then it is also important that the administration is close to the inhabitants and that the administration is legitimised. That goes wider than just the relationship government residents. For example, the Minister also consulted a change to the Law on common rules, which increases the democratic legitimacy of partnerships or at least does not reduce them, as seems to be the case in some places. We don't want that. We do want democratic legitimacy to always prevail. The Minister also started the Democracy in Action programme, in which BZK cooperates with the VNG and the professional and interest groups. Within this programme work is being done to reduce the distance between government and residents. Each year there are new activities, based on questions and needs of municipalities. Over the next two years, for example, there will be extra attention to the involvement of councils and residents in the energy transition, and the use of digital means of participation by municipalities on topics that require new solutions, and in particular the interaction between government and citizens will lead to surprising initiatives. Mr Van Raak has just mentioned a number of English-language concepts. In addition, the Minister of BZK announced in that Thorbecke letter, on the future of public administration, to stimulate the possibilities of local government. Research shows that core democracy contributes to a smaller distance between government and residents. If Mr Van Raak comes with me to Hegelsom he will see in practice how that works. He's really welcome. Finally, I would also like to encourage more direct forms of democracy, such as local referendums. In any case, I can inform you that the VNG will shortly issue a new model regulation on this subject. This will be actively brought to the attention of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u31	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u32	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u33	How long do you have? I see Mr Krol. I see Mr Van der Molen. But you were working on the democracy section.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u35	Do you still have...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yes, there are a few more questions that have been asked by Members and which I would like to answer. Two of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u37	Maybe it's good to answer that first. Then you will have an opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr Bishop, whom I have not yet seen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u39	He'll be here in a minute. He's in a general meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u40	... in response to the opinion of the State Committee, asked for a reaction from the Cabinet to its remark that it is unclear when or not the Provincial States should choose a part of the Chamber and that it has not been mapped out what the consequences are for smaller parties. The draft legislative proposal that was consulted this year was announced in the cabinet position that was sent to both chambers before the summer. As you know, this consultation is a common first step in the legislative process. Of course, both Chambers are free to hold a full debate on the report of the State Committee and on the cabinet position. Also in the follow-up to the legislative process, the Chambers have, of course, every opportunity to discuss and assess a constitutional change. Given this state of affairs, I cannot and will not go into too much detail on this draft legislative proposal, because the next step is to decide on the proposal in the Cabinet and to send the legislative proposal to the Council of State for advice. I can say that the possible consequences for the relations between smaller and larger parties have our full attention. These consequences will certainly be taken into account in the further development of the Kieswet. Mrs Van Kooten asked how the government prevents participation from becoming a theatre game or a check mark to be put on by civil servants. It is important that participation in participation experiments is not a check mark. That'll be obvious. That's just an attitude that governments need to have. If you have a say, you must take the opinion of the citizen extremely seriously. Times have changed. The citizens have become more powerful and want to be involved. Investing in involvement at the front almost always leads to positive appreciation at the back. So that's just an investment. In doing so, we must realise that we live in a representative democracy with directly elected representatives of the people. That is the starting point in our democracy, and it remains so. Direct forms of local involvement must therefore be complementary to this. Local referendums can make a good contribution not only to allowing citizens to participate at local level, but also to participate in decision-making. This is also evident from a recent thesis on local referenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u41	I am of course very pleased with that last sentence, but I had hoped that there would be an appreciation of the amendment I tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr Krol can certainly expect that, but I do not have that amendment at hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u43	Maybe you'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u44	The Secretary of State is in favour of core democracy, so you have local communities in a somewhat larger municipality that has specific attention to. I support him in that. With regard to the previous budget, I made a proposal which was also adopted, but I have not yet had an answer to it. If we look again at the distribution of money for municipalities, we should better finance municipalities that have a genuine core policy. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can tell me what is going on with that at the moment, because it is announced in the budget that we will be getting proposals for it next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u45	Block three is about the finances. Then I will also end up on the system of the Municipal Fund, because this must be given a place in it. How do you weigh how municipalities are valued, given the specific situation in which they sit and the specific tasks they have? How is that funded? That is the answer to the question. So we'll come back to that, as promised. This is one of the elements taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u46	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u47	I now have Mr Krol's amendment. It may indeed be a good thing to give an opinion on this right away. This amendment makes it possible not to bury the referendum yet, but rather to keep it alive and gradually make it possible to establish a sound position in the lessons of experience. I must discourage that amendment, because the organisation of local referendums is one of the autonomous powers of municipalities. There is no national legislation regulating the referendum at municipal level. Municipalities are already making full use of the possibility of a referendum regulation. A third of the municipalities have introduced such a regulation. At the moment, 216 local referendums have already been written. So it really is an instrument that lives and works. We believe, in essence, that the power to set up a referendum lies with the municipality, not with the Empire. Any city can do it. It is precisely because it is already being used so much and the positive and perhaps lesser experiences are being shared that I do not see any need at the moment to regulate it nationally in this way. I must therefore discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u48	I hear very well what the Secretary of State says, but we have abolished the national referendum. We're losing a lot of knowledge because of that. We also see that in recent years the mood for referendums has declined. It seems to me that it is so fantastic to keep everything around referenda alive. That was the intention of this amendment, which requires very little money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u49	"Bitter little money" is 10 million. This brings Mr Krol out of a very great ambition of this cabinet, which I think he is also very much in favour of, namely our digital society and ensuring that we can help citizens who are struggling with digitisation. There's not a lot of money in that pot. I agree with Mr Krol that the idea behind his amendment is quite sympathetic. But there is no need, given that it is already being applied so much, to regulate this by law and to make it financially possible. Nor do we have any information that the financial resources are a reason not to. In fact, there is plenty of use at the local level. I'd treasure that. There is diversity between municipalities. I believe that municipalities should have the choice, from their autonomous responsibility, whether or not to introduce it. Each municipality is of course free to introduce this on the basis of good experience elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on to the block board. As I have just said, the government is an authority serving the citizens, which is given a great deal of power by law. Ultimately, it is about the trust that citizens have in the government and whether the government deals with it in a good way. That trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. People working on the board can be expected to reflect critically each day on what working for this serving and vulnerable body means, on what it means to have to fulfil that responsibility every day. Any breach of integrity, however small at times, directly undermines the credibility of public administration. It doesn't matter where that violation of integrity takes place. It will always be about "public administration" or "government" not being integrity. Integrity, as far as I am concerned, is an infallible starting point for working in public administration. I would like to highlight this point, because I am going to go into it a little more in response to a number of questions. Mr. Chairman. "Each period has its own principle of movement; if one sleeps it, then confusion of movement arises in the following period. Stadium union is not maintained by unemployment, but by continuous creation." That's a quote from Thorbecke. He said in so many words: public administration must move along with its time, otherwise it will not function properly. For some time now, we have been unable to maintain that all municipalities and provinces have exactly the same tasks. In a region with a decline in population, there will be other themes, for example: "Is primary school still open?', than in a region or city where there is housing shortage because there are too many people who want to go. We see that happening everywhere. All reports show that differences between municipalities are increasing. New partnerships are emerging across the border. There are challenges in the areas of housing, mobility and energy transition that we did not think possible ten years ago. It looks at how governments can work more effectively together. You also see more and more of these different forms emerging. I very much welcome that, because it is not one way that works best. You try to see how you can fulfil the task you have to perform as a government as best you can. And that can lead to very special partnerships between municipalities, between groups of municipalities, between municipalities and provinces, and even between municipalities, provinces and the Empire. Of course, we have to abide by the law, but we have an obligation to do this in the spirit of Thorbecke, which is also at the heart of the Minister's letter of Thorbecke, to think again every day about how we can do things better. If we were to stick to the existing legal frameworks, then we would not be able to move forward, especially if that society and society are developing. In this changing society where more and more complex issues arise and where many tasks have also been assigned to municipalities that were not yet with municipalities a few years ago, the question remains how this municipality is able to deliver to the citizens to maintain that connection. We see the decentralisation paradox, in which municipalities need to grow to carry out the tasks, but also the question is how to properly implement the core policy that Mr Van der Molen has just spoken about. It just takes customization. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the new policy framework for municipal reclassification. The aim of this new framework is to increase democratic involvement and support for citizens. Recasts from the bottom remain leading. At the same time, we cannot deny that there are also levels of government, municipalities, who are struggling with the challenges they have and have a lack of power. Then we should also see how we can solve that. So it's not just from the bottom up. The right to challenge has just been mentioned and that is a very important subject. It can contribute to increasing citizens' involvement in government. Mr Özütok, Mr Den Boer and Mr Van der Graaf asked questions about this. The essence of these questions was: how should we read the Minister's proposal to the House of Representatives about right to challenge? Mr Van der Molen also pointed out just now. Is it a right, is it a favour and what is the Minister going to do about the right to challenge working for everyone and removing obstacles? Mrs Den Boer added the question of whether there is also the possibility of a right to cooperate; I repeat the English terms used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u50	This is really making me a little miserable. Shall we first of all agree that we speak Dutch here? Shall we also agree that if all those consultants in the ministries, those fat-earning types who run away with the money, can't think of normal words, we won't talk about it here either?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u51	I understand Mr Van Raak's excitement when it comes to the use of English-language words. I am also trying to keep it to a minimum, but I repeat the question as it has been asked to me. These are not words that have been conceived by officials, these are words that come from another country where these kinds of models are already applicable, but I think it is okay to make this a Dutch synonym. There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u52	I'd love to. Also because I know that you also attach great importance to accessibility of language...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u53	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u54	...and that ordinary citizens can also follow what we are all discussing here. So we're agreed on that, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u55	It's not just about English, it's about the elite behind it. All these schemes for highly educated, well-paid citizens who have long been able to find their way to politics, committees that are all made up of lobbyists, while the ordinary people who are now abandoned and thinking "the municipality is going to cut my things and I have nothing more to say about this," are just getting more frustrated. The distance from politics is only increasing when we, as representatives of the people, are dealing with this kind of talk. It's way too elitist. It's way too consultant. This has nothing to do with democracy, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman. I do have a dilemma, because I have been asked a number of questions on this subject, specifically with this terminology. I can, of course, try to avoid it, but I understood Mr Van Raak's appeal particularly so that he spoke about the representative of the people to avoid it. I'm willing to make that very practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u57	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u58	With perhaps an appeal to the Chamber to do so, because I actually agree with Mr Van Raak. If we go to Hegelsom tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, and I'm talking about right to challenge, nobody knows what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u59	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u60	While people do. I think that is why it is important: try to avoid this and be immediately clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u61	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u62	It goes a little further than all those itchy words in English. Last Friday, on the first day of recess, we received a report from the Minister about that fake news that was picked out. That's a 200-page report called The Politics of Social Media Manipulation. That's written from A to Z in English. How could a Dutch minister have a report written in English? We're a Dutch country, aren't we? We all speak Dutch here, don't we? How is it possible that a minister arrives with a report in English?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u63	The letter that belonged to it was simply in Dutch. I must say, Mr. Bosma, that I have no answer to this question. The only thing I could think of is that the rapporteurs were English, that they just wrote English and that it was translated. But I'd like to find out for you, and you'll get a straight answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u64	I appreciate that. To help the Secretary of State, no, it just comes from the University of Amsterdam. Yeah, that's what they're called these days! I was there the other day on an open day. It's called University of Amsterdam. It's all in English there, too. And so they also write an English-language report. But this is Holland, isn't it? Or am I saying something really crazy? When Mr Baudet started in Latin, the President was right to say something about it. But there's just a minister coming up with a 200-page report in English. What's going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u65	I will answer that question in the second term. I would remind Mr Bosma that in parts of the Netherlands, the Caribbean Netherlands, English is simply spoken as a language of speech. So it's not like...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Bosma, this is a very important answer. You didn't hear that? No. Maybe the Secretary of State could repeat it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u67	I told Mr Bosma that there are indeed parts in the Netherlands, namely the Caribbean Netherlands, where English is the language of instruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u69	Now I have a challenge, after Mr Van Raak's interruption, to avoid that word. That is not going to work, because I have to explain now what the difference is between that one cooperation right that Mrs Den Boer points out and the right to challenge on the other side. I think this is a good time to just make this one concept. We can stick to definitions, but it is essentially about the ability that citizens should have to challenge their congregation, their governance, to do things together with them. That's the point. Then I would really like to stay away from those two concepts. Just make that one concept. Perhaps, in response to Mr Van Raak's comment, we should just think of something very clever for that, which is also clear to everyone. What matters is whether we should oblige it. Should we include this in the context of the Municipal Act from The Hague: you should do so? Or do we say: municipalities can decide to do this themselves? It's also happening on a large scale. I myself firmly believe in the reasoning that any municipality that values good cooperation between citizens and government should embrace such initiatives. Let me just put it this way. You just have to do that as an attitude. You can also agree on this, you can make a regulation for it, you can choose it. It is also not at all unusual to include those can-provisions in the Municipal Law, where it is ultimately up to the municipalities themselves to choose whether or not to do so. I believe that we should naturally be cautious, even from a subsidiarity point of view. It is not an easy word, but I am not going to translate everything, because then it will be very complicated for me in this matter to impose it all from The Hague. I strongly believe in sharing good examples, in citizens who call on their municipalities or municipal councils if they would not: do so; give us that space. I believe in that more than we should make that mandatory at the moment. Let's see what it gets us to do it this way. If that didn't work, you could still do the other thing as a stick behind the door, but I think we should be very reluctant about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u70	Were you finished with the questions about the board?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u71	It's about the right to work together and challenge chal-...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u72	Very good, very good. You'll learn very quickly! Who was at the Interrupt Microphone before? Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u73	The core of the challenge for the Christian Union is that people have control over what happens in their own environment. This is an opportunity to shape that better. Indeed, there are already good examples in the country. But people in the country also run into the fact that you are sometimes at the mercy of it or that a municipality wants to give its inhabitants the opportunity to take over a task or to take over the direction of a task and, for example, to leave the execution to the municipality. There are all good examples of this. I know the Secretary of State as a Secretary of State who knows how important it is for initiatives to be made possible from below. That is precisely why we would consider it important to include a provision in the law that simply regulates the need for local authorities to lay down rules. Then a municipality can decide for itself how far it wants to go and what it wants to write about it, but they have to write about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u74	I have faith in the public administration. I rely on the strength and functioning of democracy. In a municipality the college doesn't want to make a proposal, people can always go to the city council. Then one can say to the city council: come up with an initiative on this point. That is the way democracy works. I find this line very sympathetic and fully support it in its content. I'd actually say that's what all the municipalities should do. The way they can decide for themselves. But it goes a little further to say from here that they have to do it or that they have to make rules. I believe that it could be a lack of trust in the municipalities if we determined that. Let's see how it works in practice. I think there's some kind of cold feet, because that's what I see in the examples I know myself. Municipalities say, "Wait, this is another way we relate to citizens. What does that mean? What's it gonna cost?" You name it; there are all kinds of questions. But you've got to get on with it. Just sharing the good examples with municipalities that still have cold feet can help. I think that is really the way we should go and we should not do this from The Hague. When we are at the municipalities you come to the municipalities we often hear: yes, we have to comply with this rule and we have to comply with it. The motivation to cooperate is therefore smaller. I strongly believe that this is an extremely good concept. By including it in the "can" clause, it gets the recognition it has. Then let's see what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u75	I understand very well what the Secretary of State says, but I do look at it very differently, precisely because we see that there is cold feet. I also think it doesn't have to bite each other. Eventually, the considerations are still made in the city council and by the local government. What are we gonna do? What do we care about? How much space do we want to give? What kind of tasks would we possibly want to qualify for? In what other tasks do we think that the government should really remain at the helm and that citizens should be able to count on the protective task of ensuring it? I understand that the cabinet does not want to go beyond offering a possible opportunity. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we must take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'm glad to hear the Secretary of State does embrace the instrument. However, the cabinet is still very cautious in this, while we see in practice that initiators run into a government that is reluctant and afraid of cold water. These initiatives do not go beyond the red tape and everything that surrounds them. If we want this to be more than a favour for citizens and if citizens also feel that they have a right to talk about it, it would be very good if terminology went beyond just a can-determine. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u77	These citizens have the opportunity, if the municipality does not yet have such a provision or regulation, to report to city council members and ask: why do we not have that, when municipalities X and Y have such a regulation nearby and it works very well there? Isn't that how democracy works at local level? By not allowing it to be a can-determine, but to prescribe it now, we from The Hague are going to decide for the municipalities how to do it. Again, I'm the biggest fan of this concept, so it's not in there at all. I believe that this is something that should be addressed by the local authorities themselves. By the way, the VNG is already in the process of making some sort of model regulation to help municipalities. So it's not like nothing's happening at all. There are a lot of municipalities that are already doing it. It has to be practiced; I encourage it too. In 2021, we will evaluate the Democracy in Action programme. If it turns out that it just doesn't come off the ground, for example because municipalities think 'well, that's all too complicated, we're not going to do that', while it is an essential part of the connection between municipality and citizens, then we could always decide to make it mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u78	My group is very much of the opinion that we need to establish a little more in this area. We will come forward with proposals by then. We very much support the good examples, but on the other hand there are a lot of problems in implementation. I am very sorry that we do not have a solution at the moment. We will certainly consult each other in order to resolve these problems with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u79	In the country, a lot of people are very enthusiastic about the right to cooperation. It is a very nice intermediate form for that so-called challenge right. Challenge law is sometimes a step too far, it is complicated and bureaucratic with invitations to tender and so on. This cooperation with the municipality gives people the opportunity, in democratic form, to take part or perhaps entirely into their own hands, in accordance with the municipality. I would welcome a somewhat more enthusiastic attitude from the Secretary of State. It is already happening in the country, but people are very much looking for rules and clarification, so that they can really work with that instrument. I'd like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u80	I don't know how to be even more enthusiastic about the concept. Of course, I'm gonna have to be a little tidy around here. That's not the point. Nor do I think that people are waiting for more rules, because all I hear is that we want fewer rules. I have worked for a long time in local government and I strongly believe in local autonomy, in the local functioning of democracy, where people when they have a problem report to the city council and say: I want to leave a message, I have a point I want to make. If people do not get access there, there is a completely different problem, because then democracy does not work. Then municipalities should explain why they don't. If citizens want something and the municipalities don't do it, then those municipalities have to explain it. Whether we call that working together or challenging, I don't think it's so relevant. There are a hundred variants to think of where this can be done. Why should we decide what can and cannot be done here in The Hague? Why don't we leave that with the municipalities? By including that can-do clause, by making the point and by promoting it very enthusiastically, as the VNG does, we are really moving it forward. I'm the first to join you. Mr Van Raak has seen this in practice when he has visited me. I really don't believe in any more rules, I don't believe in any more regulations from The Hague. I really believe in the power of congregations. If Mrs Den Boer comes up with examples of municipalities that do not want to participate in this concept, then she can post them with us and then I would also like to have a conversation with those administrators about why they do not. It's a slightly different attitude than mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u81	A model regulation that is discussed and developed together with the VNG is, of course, not the story "The Hague determines." As a coordinating ministry, you need to allocate additional resources or at least create additional opportunities for this instrument to be possible locally. You have the direction, you have the coordination...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u82	The Secretary of State is in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u83	I would like to hear that it is not the case that The Hague decides. I reject that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u84	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u85	Okay. Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u86	I come to an important point, integrity; I have just mentioned it. A number of groups, those of the Christian Union, the CDA and D66, have asked questions about it, in particular whether it is possible to include a legal obligation to review administrative integrity for directors. Let me be clear, the cabinet attaches great importance to the integrity of directors. A first legislative proposal to promote this administrative integrity, which, among other things, makes the declaration of conduct mandatory for aldermen and delegates, is now in the process of being drafted. In the coming month, that bill will go into consultation. The Minister is currently in consultation with VNG, IPO and professional associations on a possible legal anchoring of risk analysis integrity for aldermen and delegates. The cabinet welcomes the idea of legally anchoring this. This could then be taken into account in the proposed second legislative proposal to promote administrative integrity. That bill is expected to be consulted in the second quarter of 2020. The precise role of the mayor and the CdK, the King's Commissioner, should be considered, as requested by Mrs Den Boer, in consultation with the Dutch Society of Mayors and the King's Circle of Commissioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u87	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u88	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u89	Maybe you'll finish this first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u90	Yes. Mr, no, Mrs Özütok has asked how to prevent the underworld from having influence on policy through local government. She also referred to that integrity test that should become mandatory and to an independent Court of Auditors that could check this, and wanted to know what is going on with it. To deal with the undermining, I refer to the letter sent by the Minister of Justice and Security to your Chamber, in which he outlines the outlines of a broad offensive against organised undermining crime. In it, the cabinet focuses on administrative resilience to counter unwanted influence. That integrity test for aldermen, for drivers, fits well into that approach. Therefore, the Ministry of BZK has already issued a Manual of Basic Scan integrity prior to the elections of Provincial States and the water authorities. The assessment of the integrity of aldermen is not a task for an independent auditor. Its legal role is to monitor the effectiveness, effectiveness and legality of the municipal administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u91	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u92	Well, at the point of integrity, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u93	Okay. Mr Bosma was standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u94	I also raised this point in a small debate which I was allowed to have with Mrs Özütok. It's about the mayor of Amsterdam. It has its home not her private residence but her office house used as a weapons store. He's written a letter to the city council that she's misguided the state's attorney's office. That is a violation of the separation of powers. And he clearly covered up the gun business, because she didn't come out with it until it was in De Telegraaf. We're talking administrative integrity here. I found the Minister's reaction rather striking, because he immediately tweeted about this matter that it was a private matter. Is it the duty of the Minister of the Interior to cover this little lack of administrative integrity with the cloak of love? Why is she tweeting right away that it's a private matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u95	As far as the latter is concerned, covering it with the cloak of love: I do not know the Minister of the Interior at all. What is going on here, and that is in general a problem that many drivers have to deal with, is that all a driver does and leaves, whether professional or private, attracts attention and that gets the media. In general terms, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has already said that she is concerned about the fact that these things sometimes get mixed up, including in the imagery. This does not affect the fact that the mayor of Amsterdam is first and foremost accountable to the city council in terms of integrity. That's what it starts with. If there are cases of a criminal nature, the D.A.'s office will investigate them. It's not for me to judge that. But if the suggestion exists, or if Mr Bosma had the idea or the image, that matters would be covered with the cloak of love and that the fact that the Minister used the word "private matter" would mean something in the sense of taking up a mayor and interfering in a case that is currently under investigation and is subject to a political debate in the city council, I say: that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u96	Well, that's the case. If a mayor writes a letter to a city council in which she misdirects the public prosecutor's office in a criminal case, that has nothing to do with imaging. That's just a violation of the separation of powers. That's just fucking with the D.A. about a criminal case, an ongoing criminal case. An ongoing criminal case! Every MP knows you can't talk about an ongoing criminal case. The mayor of Amsterdam simply does that and speaks falsely about it. The mayor of Amsterdam can see that the case is under control, because she will not come out with it until it is in De Telegraaf. In the past, a mayor of Amsterdam, Mayor Van Hall, has been deposed; he has been led out. Here we see the Minister acting with the cloak of love. She immediately calls, at the beginning of this whole case, that it is a private matter. It's evidently not a private matter. Now we have a case of administrative integrity here, at least the lack thereof, and I hear all very nice stories from the Secretary of State. But yes, in good Dutch we say: the proof of the pudding... I'm not gonna finish it. We have a case here and what does the Minister do: cloak of love, it is a private matter et cetera. You're gonna have to play hardball right now, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u97	Just for the record, without going into the substance of the matter, because I am not going to do that. The moment when that tweet was sent was quite fast in my memory after that matter came into the media and was even before Mr Bosma mentioned a number of examples. It was meant to indicate the position in which drivers are in general. If anything happens to a citizen in this country, you get a fine from the police or whatever, it goes neatly into a system. This was about acting, not of the mayor himself, but of a family member, who was linked in the media to the functioning of the mayor. In that sense, the Minister has made a comment on this and in no way to influence matters or to act in the responsibility of the city council or the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u98	In the State Secretary's response to the integrity test and the relationship with the local audit chambers, it seemed as if those audit chambers were to determine the integrity test, but I didn't want to say that. I can see they're very special things. It's a good thing those local accountants are there and can do independent research. My question is more about the integrity test. There's gonna be a manual on that, but it's not mandatory. My group would like to see it go beyond just a manual and that it really has a mandatory character. What's the Secretary of State's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u99	I just answered that question. I told you that manual was there. We're working on the legal vog obligation. I have said that the cabinet is in favour of a legal anchoring of an integrity test, but that it can only be taken into account in the second legislative proposal to promote administrative integrity. This is expected to be consulted in the second quarter of 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u100	What I would have liked to ask in my own term, what I did not do, but what fits in here, is not about the undermining crime, but about the upper world, which unintentionally has a lot of influence on local government. We know examples from Limburg but also from the Westland and Hellevoetsluis. It concerns companies and their influence on aldermen or council members. My question is whether specific attention is required in the integrity test. It often involves large amounts of money: sponsorship, political parties that may receive money. There seems to be insufficient vision of this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u101	This, of course, affects the Finance Act political parties. This is about individual drivers and large companies. I'm just trying to figure out what the point is. The lobby discussion is about: do you have to report things or not? The integrity test is about the integrity of future drivers to be tested. I think the point that Mrs. Kikkie is making here is a little broader. That's more about how you generally deal with contacts with companies. Well, a good director of a municipality or province has a lot of contacts with a lot of companies, with a lot of citizens, with a lot of organizations. That is part of the work, so in itself I would say: no problem at all. On getting donations or gifts the Law sees funding political parties. Direct donations from companies to directors are just corruption. It's very simple. I believe that the Financing Act is the framework within which we are going to conduct this debate. I shall come back to that in a few moments on the basis of a number of questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u102	I will also listen carefully to the answers given to them. Yeah, it's not right and yet it happens. My question is very specific. When it comes to integrity, I think it is important that this should also be explicitly addressed, because there has been a culture in some municipalities that it was quite natural to maintain a little too close contacts and not always to monitor the flow of money. That is why I repeat my question. I believe that we should focus not only on undermining crime, but also on legal money. We sometimes see it in amateur clubs, but also in companies that sponsor certain activities and where you can also have a appearance of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u103	I understand the question, but if it were about these kinds of issues, you'd be in a criminal courtship very quickly. In such a scenario, favors, services, money are taken by directors to do things in return. That's just corruption. If there's any clues to that, then it's just a matter for the D.A. to investigate. I know that a lot of municipalities, perhaps almost all municipalities, now have a protocol for their own directors for where they can and cannot go and what they have to report to the city council, just to make it as transparent as possible and to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest. At the time that there would be any indication of this in the driver's seat there are, unfortunately, several cases of this in the Netherlands already known then there is a need to report and an investigation is taking place. Then it turns out whether or not someone has been guilty of taking favors, services or money. In broad terms, I understand the theme. That's at the interface of the undermining, which JenV's being handled by the D.A. The proposal now before us is about a vog and a legal screening, where you check at the front if there are contraindications for people who are appointed to a position where they need to be clean, but they are not. Gradually their functioning is up to the city council as well as others to assess whether there is a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mr Van der Molen has asked whether I am prepared not only to facilitate cooperation between municipalities, but also to open the debate on possibilities for differentiation of tasks in order to release the uniformity of municipalities. For example, a small municipality can transfer a task to a level that, like that municipality, is democratically legitimized. He asked whether it would not be time to evaluate it next year. The Constitution and the Municipal Law already make this task differentiation possible by the legislator. I have just said that the Minister's Thorbecke letter indicates a lot of movements where we actually say that municipalities are not equal. Each municipality is different, has specific areas of interest and should also be given the space to organise it differently from the neighbouring municipality if there is such a democratic need. That should not all be centrally arranged. It's not "one size fits all." You have to make a distinction in that. We are still considering whether additional legislation is necessary to enable municipalities themselves to carry over tasks. That's what's being taken into account. That's what that letter says. I would also like to talk to municipalities that already want to transfer tasks to another democratically legitimised body. Mr Van der Molen also spoke about the dualisation of the municipal administration. Evaluations have already been carried out in 2004 and 2008. As a result of these evaluations, the Municipal Law has also been amended in a number of respects. There was also a specific support programme at the time, together with the VNG. So I see no reason to evaluate dualisation as such once again. After all, the administrative establishment is not in question. Aldermen are no longer part of the city council. The Board shall propose and control the frameworks and the College shall prepare and implement them. I do not think that an evaluation on this point would add anything. Moreover, with the passing of time, it has also become more difficult to establish a causal link between the introduction in 2002 and the functioning in 2019. So many things have changed, especially in society and the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u107	... to which the government relates to citizens, that would almost become the comparison of apples with pears. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u108	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u109	There is ongoing consultation with the VNG on the Municipal Law. And I also think that should be the attitude. Where do things go wrong, where do municipalities run into, how can we change things? It is important to involve not only the VNG, but also the professional associations of mayors, aldermen and council members. I have another question in this block, namely Mr Krol's question. He asked for an evaluation of the reclassification of Groningen c.a. That reclassification process did go according to the requirements, he asked. He also asked himself and others whether we, as co-legislators, have not failed. He advocated an independent investigation into the evolution of the reclassification of Haren and Groningen. When assessing the reclassification advice of the province of Groningen, I did not find that the reclassification process or parts of it, up to the House of Representatives, would have gone carelessly. That is why I do not see any reason for an independent investigation into the process of reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u110	Have all the questions about the board been answered with this? That's the case. I'm going to see Mr Krol first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u111	As for Haren and Groningen: go over there, you can hear from the residents themselves that they really look at that quite differently. You say you're not familiar with any of this. Then I think: how is it possible, because then you are blind. All you have to do is get close to Haren and you hear how terribly angry they are there. Trust in all of us has fallen to a low point there. So I insist that such an investigation is really, really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u112	To establish a relationship between the fact that citizens are angry and discontented about how that happened and a process that has not gone through carefully does not, in my opinion, occur. It may indeed be that people there are not satisfied with how this reclassification went down, but that the process that was the question was going well. In the end, a balance has been made in Parliament with regard to this reclassification. That is always a political consideration, with all the consequences attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u113	The Secretary of State has said something about the evaluation of dualism, which I have advocated on behalf of the CDA. In his answer he mentions two things. In 2008, we last evaluated, so we don't have to do it anymore. In the same answer, the Minister indicated that so much has changed in the meantime that it would not say so much. I would particularly like to comment on the latter. A lot has changed in the last ten years. So I think it is appropriate to look very closely at dualism to see if we should not do some other business with it. 'Cause taking ten years and not evaluating it, I think it's pretty crazy. Wouldn't the Secretary of State really like to focus on what is really the problem of going into detail ten years after the last evaluation on whether our local government and how we organized it are all up to date?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u114	I think there are a few things that are mixed up. Mr Van der Molen talks about the evaluation of dualism, where two evaluations have already been carried out, and about the state of public administration. On the last point, I indicated earlier that I would very much like to see what is going to happen and what space we see from the Ministry to give municipalities more space to do things differently than other municipalities, to diversify there, not to throw everything together. The Minister's letter of Thorbecke really gives us the handle. That is where Mr Van der Molen will find us by his side. But specifically to establish the relationship with dualisation, a not insignificant element in the whole of local government? That's what's going on for so many years. I think it would be better to ask: how can we ensure that municipalities can deal with the new tasks of decentralisation, which is all after dualisation? And: how can we equip municipalities better with that? I'll be right there with the Municipal Fund. On the last point, I understand Mr Van der Molen's comment. I really think it makes little sense to re-evaluate one element in relation to this dualisation, because in the end you will probably come out very wide elsewhere and the conclusions you draw are not even clearly interpretable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u115	Such a question and answer also clarifies what we mean by different concepts. In my contribution, I have just indicated that a final opinion of the Van de Donk Committee, of which the Minister of the Interior was a member, also in 2016, which was not so long ago, concluded that dualism had brought much more political and less popular representation, while that was not the idea. So I do not entirely agree with the Secretary of State that there is no reason to zoom in on that point. But I will take the answer with me to think about how that should take place in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u116	The debate we have just had on the right of challenge is, of course, also touching that. To what extent is such a local council accessible to citizens' questions and wishes? So to what extent is that connection in the role of the representative of the people? I think that is also the central point. I've already indicated that a number of times. I really believe in that. How can that government be there for the citizen and how do you arrange it? That can be very different in Groningen than in South Holland. In fact, that can be different in a city in South Holland than in a village or a small municipality next to it. It is therefore also difficult to draw clear conclusions on how this dualisation has worked. It may be that Mr Van der Molen's assumption that it has become too much politics and too little representation of the people is true for some municipalities, but it is not true at all for others. That is precisely the strength of our political system. The municipalities themselves have the space to fill it in within the regulations. So I think that these differences might well be big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u118	Then I come to the block of Municipal Fund and what goes with it. I have heard the concerns of almost all members of the Chamber about the stability of municipal finances. That's something we didn't miss either. The Minister has, of course, already pointed this out in the contacts with municipalities themselves, but also in the previous letters to the Chamber. So I am not going to deny that there is a problem, that things sometimes get stuck and that municipalities get into trouble because of the system we have, even if it depends a little on the municipality. The system works like this. If we spend a lot of money as a state government, the municipalities will also receive more money in proportion. If we do not spend it, that is what we call under-exhaustment, for example, due to delays in planning, this will also result in those municipalities getting less accres, getting less money from the Municipal Fund. That's hard when you're a municipality dealing with structural spending that you can't influence. Child care is an example of this. You can't say, "We don't do social services for a few months." You might be able to postpone a bike path, but that's hard for youth care. In view of the problems encountered in the municipality and the desire of the VNG, on behalf of the municipalities, to do something about this, the cabinet decided last spring to make more than 1 billion extra available for youth aid. This amount has been built up in three tranches: 420 million for 2019 and 300 million for the years thereafter, until 2021. The government has agreed with the VNG that a study will be completed in autumn 2020 in response to the question of whether and to what extent municipalities need structural additional resources for youth assistance. The decision on this lies with the next cabinet. I have also promised your Chamber that I will come forward this year with possibilities to make the staircase-on-strap system more stable, because that is the system you are faced with as a municipality. This works in itself in a situation where you are a bit wider in your jacket, because then you can build up caution reserves and make provision for any setbacks in the accres formation. But if there are no more, then of course you have a problem. I have promised that the Chamber will be informed of this in December of this year. Then different variants will also be kept under review. The motion tabled by Mr Segers to the General Reviews is also part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u119	You were working on the Municipal Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yeah, it's gonna be a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u121	Okay. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u122	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State recognises the urgency of the problem, but if there are any investigations at the end of this year and next year in which we are going to investigate whether we need to investigate... No, there's a very big deficit right now. That goes for aldermen of the SP. That goes for aldermen of the CDA. This applies to aldermen of every political colour. They're gonna have to cut back hard. And why? Not because there is not enough money, but because there is too much money and the government does not get it spent. Then we have to help local government for next year, so they don't have to cut down on things that people really care about when they really don't need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u123	This system was agreed once. No system is perfect. This system has been working for years. I tried to point out that where it is about to get worse, it also affects the decentralisations and the new tasks that municipalities have been given, for which the cabinet has compensated them. In the past it was possible to estimate very carefully and at the end of the year we looked at what the actual accres you could still use. But now the bacon is a bit off and municipalities are in acute trouble. So what I said, also in the direction of Mr Van Raak just now, is that I am not going to deny the problem here. The Chamber sent out a very clear signal with the Segers motion. This also means that, of course, with the Secretary of State for Finance, I am going to look at the possibilities. This also raises the question of the extent to which the local tax area should be increased, whether or not at the expense of the national tax area. These are all issues that are so fundamental that they really need to be properly studied. I am not denying the problem, but we must do it very carefully. 'Cause I'm in it like this. We must do everything we can to make the shocks at different times in the year when municipalities are informed about these intermediate levels more bearable and to reduce them. Perhaps there are opportunities for this, in order to avoid unexpected surprises. That's what you want. It is true, therefore, that Mr Van Raak said that in his first term, even if, as in this case, there are opportunities to invest at a state level but certain investments are not made for good reasons, this automatically means that the municipality will suffer. That is as the system was conceived, by the way, with the agreement of the Rijk and the municipalities. So it is not imposed unilaterally, but together we see that it runs counter to its limits. So you need to see how you can fix that in a good way. I would like to say that this year you will receive a letter on this subject. I understand the urgency, and we share it, but this can't be overnight, sorry, in a day, for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u124	"Don't go ice in one night" is also said. Dutch proverbs are also very beautiful, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u125	The system needs to be improved. We agree on that, and the Secretary of State is working on it. My compliments on that. But next year, municipalities will have to cut down a lot of things that are very dear to people, that are important to people and that affect people directly. That's not necessary, because the money is there. I myself tabled an amendment to that effect: the Secretary of State will start working on the system, but there will also have to be money for next year to bridge it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Is he prepared to give a positive opinion on that amendment so that municipalities can normally implement their policies next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u126	I don't have it right now, so I'm gonna put it out of my mind. Mr Van Raak's amendment seeks to achieve the sum of 1 billion from the under-exhaustment of the Empire and to transfer it to the municipalities. That is a completely different system, because the under-exhaustment is not money that is left, but money that is not spent in this year. So what he's doing is transferring the money that's been budgeted for this year to municipalities for next year. That is why I have to advise against this amendment. I am repeating myself, but what is happening is that, as a result of the problems in the youth care sector, the cabinet, which was the basis for the fact that it was very painful for municipalities to have failed to take measures worth 1 billion. But this amendment by Mr Van Raak must therefore be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u127	I am pleased that the Secretary of State indeed describes it in this way, but perhaps he can also take away the impression that at the end of this year there will be a letter announcing only investigations. I believe they are about the longer term, when we have agreed with the Prime Minister, but also with the Secretary of State for Finance, at the General Financial Reviews, to also consider how this stability can be offered by 2020, as Mrs Kikke also asked in her term, within those current frameworks. We are not talking about extra money at a budget summit, but about ensuring that they are paid out on a budgetary basis, for example, and not on a delivery basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u128	That would be a possibility. It is also correct, as Mr Sneller says. However, the underlying problem is as follows. The system has worked for years. I pointed out just now that it was not foreseen in this way that the system would now run into its borders and make financial cuts. This is largely based on decentralisation and additional tasks, as well as increasing demand for youth care. We have been able to read about the latter again; it is also on the agenda for today's debate on the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u129	The Secretary of State refers to the financial problems surrounding youth care and youth assistance. The cabinet has also made money available for this. I have a question about the agreements that would be made with the provinces on this point, because the provinces supervise the financial situation of municipalities. They can also put municipalities under supervision if they are in financial difficulties. That money from the cabinet is occasional, for three years, while provinces look at structural funding and its soundness. The cabinet would agree with provinces that in a way they would take for granted that things are going as they are and that they wouldn't put any extra emphasis on municipalities. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether that appointment has been made clear, because we must also pay close attention to this role of the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u130	Yeah, that's true. That agreement has been made, because Mr Van der Molen is right: these series now occasionally run until 2021. That 1 billion has been smeared to 2021. There is no structural coverage, which is required. With the provinces, the agreement has been made that they accept that this is not structurally covered and that in a new government agreement and in new negotiations that are to take place on this subject, consideration should be given, in cooperation with municipalities, to how this can be implemented in a structural manner, but that has not been done any further at the moment. So Mr Van der Molen's assumption is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u131	It is good to hear that, because I do not think it is a good thing to make it difficult for municipalities to do so. I would nevertheless like to ask a question about what the Secretary of State says about what we will hear from the cabinet later this year about what can be done about funding. Indeed, it is also the system that ensures that municipalities now receive less than they had expected. It is still more than the year before, but less than they had built the budget on. The Secretary of State calls in the tax area, but as Mr Van Raak also said, these are all longer-term solutions. What has been discussed here is whether it might also be possible to spend funds that would come in the future now. Is that also a real option in the message that you are going to send to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u132	Mr Van der Molen must make that clear, because now he is spending the resources that are intended for the future...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u133	Well, if that's short. Because the longer it takes, the more complicated it gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u134	There is room on the one hand between what the municipalities would get and what is promised in the budget and on the other hand what is coming next. There's an amount between 400 million. Well, that's planned over the years. In my opinion, the discussion, including with municipalities, was always about whether we could deal with it differently. My question is whether we can get some clarity on how the discussion is going in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u135	I do not know if that is the desired clarity, but this is exactly the point that Mr Sneller has made. Yeah, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u136	I'm gonna keep going on this one anyway. Mr Van der Molen outlined it very well: municipalities will have a problem next year. He is talking about 400 million and Mr Van Raak is talking about 1 billion, but leave it somewhere in between. So the specific question is very specific: is the cabinet going to draw the wallet to solve the shortage experienced by municipalities by the year 2020? Is the cabinet open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u137	One part of this system, the step-on-step system, is that the benefit from the Municipal Fund is linked to the state of implementation of state expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u138	Yeah, I know all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u139	Exactly. The question is how the 11 billion under-exhaustment of 2019 will develop in 2020. Some of the issues planned for 2019 could well be implemented by 2020. This will mean an additional increase in the accres in the current model. That additional increase was not foreseen and is therefore an excessive increase. I cannot, therefore, anticipate Mrs Kuik's question as to how the current financial problems can be dealt with in an acute manner and how the cabinet will then decide on them. I can only say that I repeat that this year we will come up with a letter stating how we could remove the problem, not the system but the sharp edges, in order to help the municipalities in line with the Segers motion. The way in which we are going to organise things over the next few years and whether that model still needs to exist is a longer-term issue. But I cannot now fall into some kind of scenario thinking, because there are questions in several policy areas about the extent to which coverage ultimately meets the needs of the coming years. This is not only about the Municipal Fund, but also about very different policy areas. In the direction of Mrs Kuik, I say that this is an annual weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u140	It's a proven method: if you don't want to say "yes" or "no," you're going to teach. My question was very simple: is the cabinet prepared to spend extra money on municipalities for next year to reduce the deficits they experience, deficits that have to close libraries and swimming pools and still too large deficits in youth care? My question was very simple: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u141	I'm not teaching. Here is the replacement for the Minister of the Interior in dealing with the budget of the Interior, and then I am asked what we are going to spend money on. That's really a cabinet matter. And for that we have our cycles and we discuss that in college, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mrs Kuik, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u143	Despite the fine words, rather by Mr Segers and Mr Jetten, and now Mr Van der Molen's passionate plea from the CDA, the answer is: no. This means that next year municipalities will simply face a deficit, while 11 billion will be put in the treasury. I find that extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u144	The concerns that have just been raised by my fellow Members have also been raised in my first term yesterday. The Segers motion is a step in the right direction, an important step. I would like a reply from the Secretary of State to a question I asked yesterday: look with the municipalities at the depth and scope of where the problem is. Because not only in the social domain, as the Secretary of State just pointed out, these issues live. It also plays in the area of living. The building requirements have changed, so you can also see shortages locally when it comes to the housing of education. Is the Cabinet prepared to identify and report on the scope of the problem in December, so that we can discuss everything with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mrs Van der Graaf certainly asked that question. I was gonna answer it, but I'm gonna answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u146	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u147	On the scope we agreed that together with the municipalities we will see where the problem lies. It's not just about youth care. That's true. It also touches on the new challenges that exist for municipalities. And it also ultimately affects the financial position. So we're gonna take a look at that. I cannot promise you that this will be the subject of a thorough analysis in December. But the point remains on the agenda. This is of course also important in the coming years, even in the new system if that were to happen, because this must also be supported by local authorities to see how or what. So it's not just about youth care. It also includes other elements, I say in the direction of Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u148	I hear what the Secretary of State says, but I'm a little worried about that. The Secretary of State says we're gonna look into that, but we're not quite sure when we can get back together on that. The need is urgent; it is felt in the country. The drivers have made that clear. And in the end, it has consequences for civilians. That's where we're concerned. However, I would ask the Cabinet to map out the effects for us as soon as possible. What are the consequences? What's the scope? Bring that back to the Chamber in December, so it's in the picture. We're running out of time. In the first period, we also expressed concerns about the regions in the country. We are seeing a accumulation of effects of cabinet policy from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u149	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u150	We need to get a better look at that. I would ask for urgency to report back to the Chamber in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u151	This really affects the financial relations and the standards that have been laid down. So it's not a matter of "we'll do that in two weeks." I promised you the letter. What I can say in this regard, I will mention in that letter of December. But I'm just doing expectations management. I'm not gonna promise you things I can't live up to. I will do my best to go into the subject matter in that letter, to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u152	Short interruptions! The interruptions are getting longer and longer. That's really not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u153	Secretary of State, is the time limit the big problem of providing the Chamber with insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u154	Good for you! You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u155	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman, with your encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u156	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u157	That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u158	What would be feasible for the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u159	I have to come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u160	It's true what you're saying. It can also be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u161	Very good. Thank you. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr Bishop, who is still in an AO, has asked a number of questions about the progress of the process of increasing the local tax area and the simultaneous reduction of the state tax area. We were just talking about this in an interruption by Mr Sneller. As part of the building blocks for a better tax system initiated by the State Secretary of Finance, the 2016 building blocks for the revision of the municipal tax area are reviewed by an official working group. In addition, new variants are being investigated. The Secretary of State for Finance informed the Chamber of this in a letter dated 15 April 2019. That working group provides input for the building block journey. The framework conditions under which the extension of the municipal tax area can take place are an important issue in the elaboration. However, the decision to revise that municipal tax area, i.e. the relationship between the local tax area and the state tax area, is up to the next cabinet. Mr Bishop also asked whether the review would also consider whether sufficient account should be taken of the specific situation in the rural area. He mentioned drug waste and undermining as examples. In this review study we look at the structural cost differences between municipalities, and there are quite a few. The objective of the Municipal Fund is to bring municipalities into a financially equivalent starting position given their structural costs. In doing so, we look at both the expenditure and the revenue of municipalities. The distinction between the cost factors associated with an urban structure or with a rural structure is included in that research. If costs are due to objective structural characteristics, such as the social characteristics of a municipality, this will be taken into account in the new distribution model. If nuisance caused by drug waste leads to structurally higher costs, the consideration can be made to take this into account in the distribution. At the same time, however, we do not want to make this division too specific and complicated by including all kinds of special situations. That's always a dilemma. We also want to take into account the policy choices that exist for municipalities. Indeed, the complexity of the present distribution was also the reason for starting the review investigation. So there is always a tendency on the one hand to want to arrange it in great detail, while on the other hand it becomes so complicated that it doesn't work anymore either. At the moment the distribution models are being designed, and after the completion of the studies I will prepare a proposal for a new distribution of the Municipal Fund and submit it to the VNG and the Public Administration Council for consultation. Then I come to the theme of diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u163	I hear the subject of Mr Bosma. No, Mr Van der Molen, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u164	Let's talk about the Municipal Fund. The Secretary of State has also mentioned that the distribution of care payments, as I would just mention, is being looked at in the case of decentralisation. This Chamber has adopted a motion in which it states that in future it no longer wants drug use to be used as a way of looking at how we distribute the money, as is happening now. Now there's an investigation, and that's where it turns up. Can the Secretary of State promise me that we will not see this drug use in the final opinion on the distribution of money, as indicated by the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u165	For the sake of care, I would like to answer this question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u166	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u167	I am not familiar with this discussion, as I say to Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u168	No, I understand. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u169	I come to the theme of diversity. In all its diversity, questions have been asked about that, I'd almost say. I think it is important that the Empire has a diverse workforce and an inclusive working environment, in which all employees can be themselves, feel free, for example to express their opinions, and feel valued and respected. For these different perspectives, backgrounds and insights help the government and the public administration to function well in its generality, but also to be representative. I'm sure of it. In general, we see a steady growth in the number of women at the top of the Empire. In addition, there is a slight increase in the number of employees with a non-Western migration background. There is also an increasing focus on the importance of inclusion, and not just on recruitment or influx of staff. I pay particular attention to the flow of women to top positions and to the enhancement of ethnic diversity, particularly in the 11th grade and above, in order to bring the workforce more closely into line with the working population in the Netherlands. But I am also concerned about the added value created by the diversity of views. Let us not only focus on women and people with a migration background, but also on other aspects where people can differ from one another. Think of age, youth, sexual orientation, educational background, personality, region, Randstad and you name it. We therefore strive for inclusion in the government. I would also like to say a few words about public administration. Politics belongs to all of us and affects all of us. The Cabinet considers it important that political and political functions are accessible to people from different backgrounds. That is why it is good to see that 40% of the mayors who have been appointed since the accession of this cabinet in 2017 are women. We have already achieved a good result, I think. However, the growth of women in politics and governance has been slow and flattering over the last decade. That is why this cabinet, together with others, is working hard to implement the measures announced, to achieve results and to remove blockades. The stakes are that after the next parliamentary elections in 2021 and the municipal elections in 2022 the gender balance in the public administration is better in balance. This can be achieved through inclusive selection, through better selection procedures, by actively highlighting the potential of female candidates and by providing and supporting people who aim to do so. The only way we can do that is if we do it together. The composition of our political representation and of our governance is a joint responsibility. It is ultimately up to political parties to decide who they place on their list of candidates. It is then up to the electorate to decide on who they vote for. It is up to council members to recommend a mayor's candidate and to the king's commissioner to advise on that. I see it as my responsibility to provide framework conditions that make political participation as accessible and accessible as possible to all. So we only get that better balance by pulling it together. A number of questions have been asked on this subject. That's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u170	Is there a question from Mr Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u171	I do not think Mr Bosma had a question, but perhaps he did now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u172	I'll think of one. I hear the Secretary of State talking about ethnicity. I find that interesting. We haven't had that in a long time as part of government policy. So it's just about race, because ethnicity is race. That's the point I wanted to make. Mrs Den Boer said something similar last year. I also hear the Secretary of State say something about different views and that this also belongs to diversity. I think that's a big deal. I made the point yesterday that there are a lot of D66s among judges, prosecutors and senior officials: monoculture. But that's not the point I want to make. I spoke yesterday in my speech about PVV's. Mr Marcouch, the mayor of Arnhem, says that police officers should not be a PVV. This is just an example. A judge appeared on VPRO television who said there: if you are a PVV and want to become a judge, that is a counter-indication. In other words: PVVs should not become judges. We see that in a lot of ways. I can tell you thousands and thousands of stories of PVV's getting thunder at work in their careers. They're just being ruled out. And then I hear here the word 'inclusion', another horrible left itch word, but well, we seem to be using that language. I hear the word "inclusion" fall all the time and then I think: that's nice again, that sounds nice on paper, but if you're in practice PVV'er, you're just busy with your last job. You'll never find another job. That's just reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u173	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u174	Does the Secretary of State recognize that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u175	In addition to Mr Bosma's ambition to remain in the Chamber for longer, I would like him to have something to do after this office. I believe that we should agree here that the political preference of people should not play a role in assessing whether or not they are appointed to a post. That wouldn't be good. It is good to have people with different views in an organization. A basic rule for anyone who holds a position with certain job requirements is that you have to qualify professionally for those job requirements. But in the direction of Mr Bosma, I will not go to officials I work with all day long to ask what their party political preference is. I don't know that either. I don't think it's relevant as long as this doesn't stand in the way of functioning. However, there are other things to think of that could stand in the way of functioning, but I would certainly not think of the political preference. I would therefore like to make a plea that it should not be a reason to discriminate, because that is what Mr Bosma is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u176	I'm not just suggesting it, I'm just wearing for what Mr. Marcouch says, a mayor, who's so about who works at a city council. I also told you about that judge. That just became VPRO television. PVVs should not become judges: he is open and honest about that. No one got mad about that. The Coornhert-Liga didn't rise up. The district attorneys didn't get angry. No, that's just accepted. That's what people think. With these people, Marcouch and that judge, I'm actually happy, because they're just being honest. At least they're open. At least I still respect that. They just say it. But the practice is that PVVs in the civil service and in many important areas in the public administration, which we are talking about now and to which I will limit myself, will never get to work. If you say you're a PVV guy, you're gonna be so fucked. That's the discrimination, that's the inclusion of the D66s. That is the reality as many people experience. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do something about it and to put his words into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u177	What I can do is say it. That's not unimportant. I can't tell what other people need to find, even if they have a public office. If you point to a mayor who has an opinion, he may have that opinion. Let me make it clear from my position what my opinion is on this point. I find it impossible for people to be discriminated against on the basis of anything, including their party politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u178	I'd like to argue on this. If a PVV says that a person of Moroccan origin should not become President of the Chamber, so deliberately discriminates on the basis of faith, identity or origin, and applies to you as an official a day after that, how do you feel about that? Do you say, "Come work with me?" Or do you say, "Wait a minute, when you, as a PVV, rule out discrimination against people, how can you work for society?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u179	Even so, the principle is that I do not wish to discriminate against anyone on the basis of his opinion. I have a completely different opinion from the person involved, but if that were the measure of things, we would not be able to work with a lot of people. I don't think that's the way it should be either. In essence, this was Mr Bosma's comment, whether you are a member of DENK or the PVV, or whether you are a PVV member may be a reason for someone to say: that is why you should not have this job. No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u180	That's not the point I'm making. When someone openly discriminates or has racist ideas and has openly admitted them, and applies to the public administration, so the country wants to serve with our community money, what do you say? You say you're a racist or you discriminate, but come work with me? Or do you say that's where I'm gonna put a line? It's not about the party to which someone is a member. It's about what actions a person commits or what ideas someone has. I think this Secretary of State is going to set a standard there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u181	The standard is the law and the Constitution. I'm not the idea police. I'm not talking about what people can and can't find. If you opt for a position and qualify for the function requirements that go with it, you are eligible. Then you can't be excluded in advance because of your origins or whatever. That's how it's supposed to be in this country. I do not know whether the threshold that Mr Öztürk is setting for what he thinks is acceptable is the same as what I think. Freedom of speech is a great asset. We have to respect that, I'd say. We must also respect the freedom of demonstration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u182	Finally, I'd like to take another shot. I am talking about someone who has openly expressed racist ideas and behind them or who has openly discriminated against people. If you're applying for a job, do you say, "Come and join the public administration?" Or do you say: no, a racist is not a member of the public administration, a racist cannot become a civil servant? That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u183	I have difficulty with the way in which Mr Öztürk builds on Mr Bosma's question, which immediately links with racism and then presents that question to me as if it were the same question. That's a really different question. Mr Bosma's comment was related to the fact that it has been said that PVVs should not hold certain functions. That was the question. I have given a very clear answer to that. The question is whether what you mean by racism is the same, because I have the feeling that you are trying to make a connection between Mr Bosma's views and what you are saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u184	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u185	So if I have understood the Secretary of State correctly, can a member of the Danish Parliament who discriminates against other people from a Turkish background just apply to the Ministry in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u187	Then that's clear, too. That's the way it's gonna be. That's how it's clear at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u188	Then questions were asked by members Özütok, Den Boer and Kuik about the diversity and inclusiveness of the government service and specifically at advisory lectures. The Empire is engaged in specific activities to increase and maintain diversity in the summit. The number of women in top management positions is growing, but this attention remains necessary. Measures are therefore taken to promote diversity in the highest pay scales and below. An example of an overarching measure is the diverse composition of selection committees. That's what it starts with. This is also covered by the Minister's earlier commitment that at least one woman always participates in recruitment committees for salary scales 14 and above. Job vacancies are also brought to the attention of people with a wide network, so that a diverse group responds to these vacancies. All ministries have signed the Charter Diversity and then formulated their own plans of approach. They now carry them out and each department has its own focus and challenges that fit within the department's uniqueness. The departments exchange different approaches to further strengthen them and improve their design. In addition, the Strategic Staff Policy Rijk 2025 has identified common principles that contribute to this government with diverse teams. Within the Empire there are activities aimed at awareness, such as the Week of Diversity. Other examples of tools include training to improve selection interviews and anchor inclusion in training programmes. Ms Özütok and Mrs Den Boer referred to the report of the Court of Auditors on inclusiveness at advisory colleges. In response to previous parliamentary questions, I indicated that I would respond to this report and I will send it to you before 1 March 2020. In that response, I come on behalf of the entire cabinet, which is why it is taking a little longer, because it is not just a matter of BZK but it is a cabinet-wide response to the recommendations of the General Court. In short, working on diversity and inclusion is a solid task that requires continuous attention, naming, monitoring and drawing attention to these challenges. Mrs Den Boer asked if I see any results from increasing the diversity of local government and what obstacles still need to be removed so that everyone who wants to participate can participate. I have just said something about the mayor's appointment, an important matter. When it comes to council members and political ministers, it is, of course, primarily the responsibility of political parties to take into account that diversity in their list composition in order to ensure that diversity increases. I would like to emphasise that diversity is more than just male/female, but that it is also about representative lists; if one does not, it may be, because that is how it works in the Netherlands, but it is up to the voters to choose what they feel most senang about. So it's not just one instrument or one button you can turn on; this is just the continuing naming, signaling and doing more than just opening up functions to encourage people to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u189	Let me see how far you are with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u190	I have two more questions to answer on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u191	Maybe you'll answer those questions first. Then there's an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u192	Mrs Den Boer also asked if I could make a comparison with other European countries when it comes to a minimum percentage of women on the electoral list. She also asked about the ride obligation; I had never heard of that ride obligation before, but now I know what it is. At the moment we are investigating what the Netherlands could learn from other European countries to steer on inclusive and diverse governance. Researchers will also consider both the effectiveness of a minimum percentage of women and the aforementioned journey obligation. These results will be presented this autumn and will reach you. Mr Öztürk asks if I am prepared to extend a measure so that more people with a migration background are also admitted to public functions. He wondered whether it was not time to work with quotas on this issue. Let me be very clear. I stand for inclusive politics. It's all ours. I have just made it very clear that when it comes to diversity and inclusion, I apologise for the word "s', which means that people from all backgrounds need to be encouraged into jobs. Of course, as far as the government is concerned, there are job demands, people can act on them, and the way in which you shape the applications also pays attention to them. When it comes to political parties, that was the debate you had in the first place. It is, of course, up to those political parties themselves to decide how to organise their lists. It could even be a political choice. You could set up a women's party or a man's party; you could do all that. It is ultimately up to the electorate to decide. I think it is important for the quality of the functioning of our democracy, of the representativeness of that democracy, but also of the public administration, that we pursue this diversity as much as possible. But let's not just limit it to man-woman or people with a non-western background. There's a lot more dimensions attached to that. My experience is that in the end you get much more connection and better results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u193	Then you can continue with digitization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u194	Then I will indeed come to the digitisation, a priority of this cabinet. We have a number of responsibilities in this area. In fact, you could say that every member of the cabinet has a responsibility in this, because digitisation is there. The question is, in particular, how we deal with the new challenges surrounding digitalisation. This means issues related to protecting our fundamental rights and, at the same time, exploiting opportunities that digitalisation offers to do things smarter and more efficiently. But the question that always lies at the heart of this question is: shall I look at Mrs Özütok, whom I always have to think about when I talk about inclusion, because she is an advocate of it, and I myself, too, how do we ensure that everyone can go along with it? By the way, the whole Chamber has always supported that. This also indicates that the challenge is how we make sure that we use the opportunities, bring people with us in the digital transformation, and that we make it work in a good way. Honestly, that's quite a challenge. Because that's about educating and helping people to participate in that digital society. This is about major ICT projects, transformations within the government, to ensure that we can also provide the services we need to provide. Without inciting interruptions, I can say that this does not always go well with the large ICT projects. But they are desperately needed to be ready for the future. Where we were just talking about municipalities and how we can equip municipalities to have the right tools to carry out their tasks, that is, of course, true for the government. This applies to our registers and how we deal with data, with new forms of artificial intelligence and with new techniques that can increase security. Not only do we talk about this, we do so from the coordinating authority of BZK also from the idea that a good example will follow. So the attitude is very important; I have always said that. We want to be there where the innovation is. We want to experiment actively. We want to see what can and dare to say it when we have tried something: this is not working. It is also very important that we do this within the European domain, with like-minded countries, but also internationally. Mr Middendorp spoke of Singapore. In two weeks' time I will go there with a very extensive mission, with a number of ministries, with startups, the Blockchain Coalition and all kinds of companies in the Netherlands who see that there are opportunities. Then it's about how we can properly connect the knowledge that is there. As a country, we are very dependent on international trade and services. That's what we want to excel in. We're good at that, too. There are a number of areas where we can improve and learn from other countries. It works the other way around. In recent years, I have had discussions within Europe with a number of countries that have the same issues as us, for example how to deal with the protection of fundamental rights and how to deal with the transformation of government. We have looked at how we can use the new European Commission to try to get a kind of common agenda that also helps us as the Netherlands. I sometimes say that, of course, we are dealing with the power of the market when you look at the big tech companies in the United States. You have the power of government when you talk about how things are in China. We're trying to do something else. We are pursuing a society in which the fundamental rights of individual citizens are protected, but at the same time we are also an entrepreneurial country and we want to use the techniques at our disposal to apply innovation to make things better in the Netherlands. That is why we have drawn up the Dutch digital agenda. From this, the agenda NL DIGI is better prepared, the Digital Government Agenda. That agenda provides us with the tools, including for the years to come. That is the money Mr Krol was trying to pull and I would like to protect, because we want to do so many good things, including for people who are now having a little more trouble getting involved in the digital society. I also said we started with the Direct Clear Brigade. Of course, I understand that I am being watched when I talk about this, because when I ask other people to do so, we have to do it ourselves. I can promise the Chamber that, even though it is not settled overnight, we will also try to communicate more clearly at the Ministry of the Interior, of course, to citizens. It is very important that this happens in the way the government writes letters to citizens. At all events, we want to try to stay away from all kinds of jargon. That is not easy, but it is not a question of unwillingness; it is also a question of convenience. It's easier to write than it is to write. We must encourage the civil servants and ourselves to do so in a good way. Mr. Chairman. Ms Özütok asked how we would involve all kinds of target groups in the digital government as part of the inclusion of digital accessibility. It really is a spearhead of our policy to do so. I must say that it is also very nice to see how that works, because I come to many places where this happens and where initiatives are. These are initiatives with civil society organisations, but also with industry. In fact, you see that everyone wants to go in the same direction, namely: how can we think of smart things that are technically very complex but that are easily accessible in the ease of use, so that people can participate once they have worked with them? You often see that people who have never had to deal with these techniques, after a relatively short training at once get very excited about the possibilities it offers. So it's also really a story of opportunity. I think we should bet on that, too. One of the ways we involve citizens is User Central. This is a platform that many government organisations use. There, we actively involve citizens in developing our own digital services, e.g. websites, to test how it works in practice. So just establish experimentally: put people against it who have no sense of it or are reasonably blank and let them judge where it goes wrong and how to do it differently. That is how we ourselves, as citizens, are behind a website and sometimes annoy us that we are stuck, not only with the government but also sometimes with the business community. That is precisely why we have made agreements with business to do things together in an alliance called Digital Collaboration. That is also an immediate answer to Mrs Kuik's question, which was somewhat disappointed by the way in which her motion had been carried out. I am very sorry about that, because I really did my best to take up this motion by Mrs Kuik, which was tabled last year in the budget and which I very much support. I also see the results, I see the enthusiasm and I also see that the big companies have now joined us. Together, we think very carefully about how their client, our citizen, can actually involve the same people. I invited Mr Van Raak to my hometown. I would like to invite Mrs Kuik to go to such a digital information point with me, as well as others, if that is possible, to see how things are going there. That is, by the way, a first step and not the end point. Mrs. Kuik asked if we could do this at municipal places. Eventually we concluded that the library is often a place where many people go and where it is easy to organize this, but that is not the end. We keep thinking about how to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u195	Mrs. Chicken, will you come with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u196	I'll go with you, but we'll do a mix-up visit. We'll talk about that later. It's nice that people can find the library, but it's important to me that they don't run into the municipal bureaucracy. If you are referred to all kinds of Internet sites, if you need to get your help digitally, you should also be able to speak to someone about flesh and blood. It is my concern whether that can be guaranteed in such a library function.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u197	The answer to that is yes, but we're going to look at that together. However, I am curious to see where I am going with Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u198	That's what you're gonna do outside of this room. Or do you all want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u199	We still have some nice municipalities overseas, no, that's a joke. I have another proposal, but I'm not going to mention it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Molen want to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u201	That's good, but I'm a little disappointed that they seem to be setting all kinds of conditions right now. I have a second question about DigiD. People are extremely dependent on this, but it turns out that many times new passwords are requested. That really runs into millions, and that doesn't just have to do with people forgetting their passwords. Apparently, accessibility is complicated. I would like to mention this as an example, but I would ask the Secretary of State to see if what we have now in relation to digital inclusion meets increasing accessibility. People should not only know how to handle it, but you should also notice that the number of error messages or requests for a new password is decreasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u202	We'll have a general discussion on that shortly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u203	Then that's the place to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u204	I would like to say two things, Mr President. During DigiD's development and updates on the basis of panels and experiences, we try to take these things with us. That's one. Two, not insignificant. DigiD is becoming increasingly important in the future. It offers opportunities to share confidential information, for example in healthcare. We're not at the level we want to be at yet. It is being worked hard, which will be the subject of discussion in that general consultation. It is of the utmost importance that we take both safety and ease of use to a higher level. The possibilities of DigiD and the exchange of data between public authorities and citizens that are not yet being used should be further increased. It can also really contribute to much more ease and speed in the care. That is why we are working very closely with VWS, whose budget is also being discussed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u206	If I'm right, I answered all the questions. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it. Then I can take them with me in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u207	There's gonna be extra money for MPs. I read in the budget that part of this is paid out of the rent payment. I can't explain that: more money for MPs and less money for the rent allowance. Can the Secretary of State help us out of the fire?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u208	I understand Mr Van Raak's question if it really were to be at the expense of the rent allowance, but the reduction in the self-employed deduction means that structuralally there is more room in that budget. No one will be cut off on his rent allowance, but fewer people will use it. That underexhaustment is the cover for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u209	That's remarkable, isn't it? The rents are non-payable. People can't have a house. And then there's gonna be a little bit more money for the rent allowance and then it's gonna go to the MPs. I can't explain that. I'd like to give the Secretary of State a second chance, otherwise I'll consider a motion in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u210	It was a broad-ranging wish of the Chamber to make this possible. It was a motion without cover. Well, that's the cover the cabinet took. Here was room to do so, precisely because of the reduction of the self-employed deduction. It is simply an automatic consequence of the fact that the self-employed are reduced. As a result, people make less use of the rent allowance. No one gets cut off on their rent allowance. That room is there to do this. It is a financial and technical answer to an issue that I know Mr Van Raak is always very involved in. It's not at the expense of people who are now getting rent payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u211	I asked two questions about ProDemos. Those haven't been answered as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u212	We answered a set in writing last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u213	Oh, there was a written reply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u214	I'm gonna look at the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u215	That's good. You can always come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u216	I've got two more things. The first concerns freedom of expression online, which I said something about. A very nice report has been published on this subject at the request of the VVD. Mr Bosma has held that up a number of times. It's from the University of Amsterdam, if I understood him correctly. The question was, to sum it up very briefly: who is actually going to be the referee with us online in the Netherlands? There was a link to Europe. After looking at the Minister's action plan and after what we exchanged two days ago, I am curious how the Secretary of State looks at it. Should big tech companies decide which messages we, as politicians, may or may not send out? This also applies, of course, to all people in the Netherlands who want to be active online. The second is the point of the data centers. Actually, I miss that. I wonder if there has been any contact with Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u217	Mr President, both questions have also been answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u218	That is always the disadvantage of having written answers forwarded. The MPs will not always have the opportunity to study everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u219	We have neatly grouped the answers by MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u220	Yes. Nevertheless, it is not always convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u221	I'll think about it. Actually, I thought there was still reason to go into it a little further. But I will think about that in the light of the documents that have been sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u222	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u223	I have looked at the written answers to the questions on digital legacy that have been asked by both Mr Middendorp and myself. Thank you for your answer. The cabinet really shows a benevolent attitude. I think that's a very good signal. However, I had one more question: what is the government's position on such an awareness campaign that we could take towards the people of the country, the relatives...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u224	That was a question in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u225	Exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u226	Look, in an awareness campaign, I'm thinking P.O. Box 51 or something. This is, in a sense, a new phenomenon. The question is whether it is a problem for everyone at once. It seems to me that people in this situation who are confronted with this are mostly relatives or people who simply want to find something in life or settle something for this can be made aware of in many places. I'd like to think about what the role of the government might be in this. But I am also thinking very strongly, for example, of the notarial profession and the funeral industry. These are often the times when people are confronted with them. I see that sentence as a sympathetic proposal. But if Mrs Den Boer really asks to make it a very big awareness campaign from the Empire, I say: I think there are a number of parties that are relevant that can play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u227	Mr Van Raak raised the question about the funding of political parties, the resources that will be available. I have a question about how we're going to spend it. There's still no clarity on that. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State when the Chamber will be clarified as to how the additional resources which the Chamber has allocated to political parties will then be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u228	I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u229	Good. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I want to suspend for two minutes. Then we'll keep the second term on the side of the Chamber first. Then we suspend for lunch, prior to the arrangement and the farewell of a colleague of ours. After that, we will continue to deal with the budget. For now, two minutes suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u230	We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. We were working on the budget handling of Home Affairs and Kingdom relations. I give the floor to Mr Bosma on behalf of the PVV. You have one minute. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u231	I can be very concise, Mr President. I would have liked to have tabled a motion of censure, because that is what this Minister deserves. That whole fake news hoax has been one big charade. It is a lie, because that foreign interference has never been there at all. The Minister has put on an insanely large pair of pants and has made huge claims about the democratic rule of law that would be threatened. None of that has been the case. We've just been set up as a parliament. She's been selling untruths in all those talk shows where she's been on the assembly line. This report of 200 pages from the University of Amsterdam puts her in her shirt once and for all. It's a shame it's like this. Mrs Ollongren's holy battle appears to be fried air and all her claims prove to be false. Mr. Chairman. I think we in the House of Representatives are making far too many motions. That is why I would like to set an example and not table any motion. I am sure all colleagues will follow my example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u232	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. That is a very good intention. I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD. How many motions do you have, Mr. Middendorp?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u233	Madam Chairman, how many motions do I have? At least I see I have 11 minutes, so that's good. I think we can do that. I will answer your question neatly, of course. I've got three, but let's see how it goes. I would like to begin by thanking the Cabinet, the Secretary of State and the Minister. I appreciate the answers, especially the written questions. Of course, I would have looked at them, but I thought there might be something else we could say about them here and there. Of course, I also like to hear the Secretary of State talk about digitisation. Of course, I don't want to claim an exclusive right to that. As I said in my first term, I think that this whole digitization point is gonna get over us in a huge wave, whether we like it or not. I see Mr Bosma looking critical, but it really is. It's going to be more and more about digitalization. In this sense, the cabinet always indicates that it sees that and that it is a huge priority. Hence the support of the VVD, as I said the most optimistic technology party in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Today, the company Twitter announced not to place any more political ads. We can have a whole debate on that. I have nine and a half minutes left, so I won't. I thought it was a very important announcement again, especially since I have already corresponded with the cabinet a long time ago about the blog of colleague Wilders on Twitter, which should not go unnoticed in this house. Since I think that is a very important subject, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas technologies such as social media and internet search engines are becoming increasingly important in our elections and in the public debate online;]] [[Whereas tech companies are calling for smart, sound and enforceable rules to shape this development;]] [[whereas the European Commission is currently working on the Digital Services Act, which can have a major impact on online freedom of expression in the Netherlands;]] [[believes that the Netherlands should be a pioneer in Europe in terms of digital democracy and freedom of expression;]] [[calls on the Government to send the Digital Services Act to the Chamber before Christmas 2019 and to share the position of the other EU Member States with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u234	With an apology for the English words, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna work on that for next time. We have also discussed another issue that is important in this area: digital funeral care. Those two words alone lead to a lot of discussion, because you can also say: digital legacy. In this Chamber, too, we must invent new words for very new and very important developments. I would therefore like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more and more people are active in the online world;]] [[Whereas the death of persons often leads to a digital legacy that relatives do not always have easy access to or know how to handle;]] [[Whereas work is being carried out on the modernisation of the Coronation Act;]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber the aspects of the digital delivery it intends to involve in the modernisation of the Coronation Act, indicating which other legislation should be adapted;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how, as part of the modernisation of the Coroner Care Act, relatives can be informed about the possible existence of a digital legacy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp, Mr Krol and Mr Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u235	Mr. Chairman. It has just been discussed in the debate: we welcome the government's commitment to interim elections. We understand that this is a Constitutional issue and that it needs to be looked at. We would like to ask a ruling from the Chamber on this, because it is an extremely important subject and we think it is important that the cabinet knows where it is going. So I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there may be serious distortions within municipal authorities, which could render municipalities unmanageable, which could undermine the confidence of voters;]] [[Whereas elections to municipal councils are currently taking place at a fixed time prescribed by law and interim elections are not possible;]] [[Considering that interim elections for municipal councils where there are serious disturbances could be a solution to this;]] [[calls on the government to propose a constitutional amendment to this cabinet period in order to allow for interim elections in municipal councils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp, Mr Krol, Mr Den Boer and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u236	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude by saying that I think we are taking concrete steps on a number of points. I have already said that the VVD is pleased that digitisation is a priority for this cabinet. I have also said that speed can be increased on points and that there are challenges that we, as a Chamber, have to spend a great deal of time on and on. In fact, I believe that this can bring a great deal for the Dutch in the sense of a government that understands them better, that understands them better, that works better for them and that can better provide services to them. Mr President, I should like to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u237	Thank you, Mr. Middendorp. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all our questions. When it comes to challenge law, there are many different local initiatives. They're very pleasing. But we also see that it is very dependent on the goodwill of local government. The way to find it is very difficult for a number of initiators. On the contrary, we would like to see the proposals in this area really go beyond just a can-do clause, so that the initiators can feel assured that it will be a right and not just a favour. So we will come up with proposals in this area together with colleagues Van der Molen and Van der Graaf. Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the State Secretary's commitment to including different groups in society in the development of digitalisation. So we will certainly continue to follow that and come up with proposals where necessary. On the motions: with regard to the advisory committees, I will table a motion with Mrs Den Boer to improve the advisory committees on the representation of minorities and women. I've got four more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various studies show that public authorities often do not yet take sustainability criteria into account in procurement;]] [[whereas the public authorities purchase some EUR 70 billion in goods and services each year and thus make a major contribution to sustainable and circular production;]] [[Whereas in some sectors the percentage of sustainable procurement has not increased in recent years, but has decreased;]] [[calls on the government to make sustainability a criterion for procurement;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u239	Mr. Chairman. My next motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both national and local political parties receive regular donations from legal entities such as companies and foundations;]] [[Whereas this does not in all cases make it transparent who is behind the donations and is therefore impossible to determine whether there are any favours against the donations;]] [[believes that it is very important for confidence in politics that it is transparent who or which organization gives gifts to political parties;]] [[calls on the Government, in the forthcoming adaptation of the Wfpp, to introduce a ban on gifts from which it is not clear which natural persons the gifts come from,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u240	Mr. Chairman. My next motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, unfortunately, there is still regular discrimination and often people from minorities are affected;]] [[noting that an anti-Semitic incident Monitor is being issued annually;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties, to establish an annual monitor Islamophobia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u241	Mr President, my next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u242	I would like to register: I am very Islamophobic. But Islam is an ideology that has been demanding many victims for 1,400 years, being intolerant and having people think differently killed. That's a mission of Islam. Isn't every sane person Islamophobic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u243	Yes, Mr Bosma uses that view. I'm totally on the other side. Islam is a religion, like all the others, and every religion has some terrorist or compelling sides. That applies to all religions. I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u244	No, that doesn't apply to all religions. Mrs Özütok is now going to generalise a little to get out of it. If you just look at the Qur'an and the assignments that are in it and you see how it is then carried out, then you can just see that Islam is a bloodthirsty, intolerant and anti-democratic ideology. It's perfectly normal to be against that ideology, isn't it? There are also people against national socialism or communism. It's just a fundamental human right to be against ideology, isn't it? Why should there be a hotline for people with a certain opinion? That goes against the liberal rule of law, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u245	I have the feeling that Mr Bosma is really confusing a lot of things. I keep seeing Islam as a religion. So that's all it wants to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u246	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u247	It is the freedom of everyone to adhere to any religion. Everyone's free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u248	Mr. Bosma, this is a second term. It is a motion and you are free to vote for it or against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u249	I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that lobby groups such as the tobacco industry approach MPs to come to work for them and try to buy influence directly or indirectly through this way;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has committed itself to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and that this document prohibits the tobacco industry from participating at the tobacco table, and that the tobacco industry should not have any influence on smoke discouragement policies;]] [[points out that it is very undesirable, for example, for the tobacco industry to actively approach MPs to come and work for them in order to gain (indirect) influence on policies relevant to them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks has already mentioned it. Based on the answers of the Secretary of State, we do not believe that the cabinet goes far enough around the challenge law to support citizens who, for example, jointly want to take over a task from the local government. We will therefore come forward with a joint proposal at a later date. Mr. Chairman. We have also said the necessary things about municipal finances. In December, the Secretary of State indicated that he would clarify what options were available. I would also like to inform the Secretary of State that there may be a time when consultation with others has come to an end and the problem still exists. I would like to have the debate by then on whether we should take a step from the Empire's side, because these problems are real. They are real and they are asking for a solution. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. The first motion concerns the evaluation of dualisation. The cabinet has said that it does not want it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the dualisation of municipal and provincial administration has not brought society and governance closer together;]] [[Whereas evaluation of dualisation is desirable, including in the light of developments in society;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals for a comprehensive evaluation of the dualisation of the municipal and provincial administration and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 March 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities have been given more and more tasks and responsibilities in recent decades;]] [[Whereas the Constitution and the organic legislation expressly provide scope for task differentiation between municipalities, so as to strengthen the ability of local government to act without losing proximity;]] [[calls on the Government to initiate systematic dialogue with and between public authorities on possible task differentiation and to inform the Court before 1 March 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has drawn up a guideline on border effects which could be involved in the drafting of new legislation;]] [[noting that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau notes that the available information on what is needed in different regions is not sufficiently gathered and is not yet translated into policies, which may add up problems of work, care and viability at regional level;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include the impact and accumulation of policy impacts for border and shrinkage regions in the Integrated Weighting Framework for Policies and Regulations (IAK),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a city council should not take a decision to reorganise the municipalities if the inhabitants have not been able to express their opinion in elections;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to amend the General Rules Act in such a way as to ensure that the reclassification draft is not submitted to the Minister than after municipal elections, and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 March 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-20]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Molen, Van der Graaf and Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u251	Mr. Chairman. I also drew attention yesterday to the problems with the counting software: the digital tool. We want to ensure that the votes in the elections can be counted correctly and safely, so that everyone who went to the ballot box knows that counting the votes is correct. I feel too little urgency on the part of the cabinet, at least so far, to make haste with that, so that we can manage things at the 2021 Lower House elections. It is precisely with regard to the digital tool that we will have to take steps to ensure the safety of the process. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a new digital tool is needed to calculate the election result, as the current tool is not reliable and safe enough;]] [[Whereas it is necessary that new software is available at the Parliamentary elections in 2021;]] [[Calls on the Government to tender a new digital tool for calculating the election result as soon as possible and to inform the Court thereof before 15 December 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u252	This is how we put some pressure on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u253	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP. Looks like Mr Van Raak has no motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u254	You never know what I'm pulling out of my inside pocket, Chairman. I don't do it often, but I would like to start by thanking and complimenting the Secretary of State. It's hard to take over a whole ministry and take over the minister's duties. He's gonna be busy the next few days. From here on, I would also like to wish the Minister well. I hope, of course, that she will return soon so that they can do the work here together. I am very disappointed by the fact that the Secretary of State has fine words for the municipalities but leaves them in the cold. All those aldermen of the SP, all those aldermen of the CDA and all those other parties who are going to have to cut back on the pool next year, on the library, on care and on support. Kei-hard! Not because there's too little money, but because there's too much money. Because the government can't spend enough money, municipalities have to cut back. That's not a story. You can't deal with people like that, you can't deal with local drivers like that. I have tabled an amendment to pay 1 billion by 2020 because the billions here are bouncing at the plinths. Then the Secretary of State says: part of the 11 billion is perhaps spent on something else in the future. Yeah, but part of it isn't, and it is. So either the Secretary of State comes here with a better plan or I would like to ask the Chamber to show a little respect for our local administrators, our local people, and to ensure that they get the money they have next year so that they can implement the policies they have promised. If the government fails, that doesn't mean the lectures have to fail. Then there's the support of MPs. Additional funds have been allocated to support MPs. I didn't have to, but a majority of the House wants it. The Secretary of State went to see where there's money. Ah, the rent supplement! Less people are entitled to rent allowance, so we're going to pay the support of us here in the House of Representatives on the grounds that there is less money for rent allowance. People can't pay the rent. So even if there are only a few cents for rent, I would say: spend it on rent and not on support for MPs. If MPs need extra money for me don't have to find another jar. Again, 11 billion is bouncing up against the plinths. Why is that being paid out of the rent allowance? That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet would like to pay the extra money for the support of Members of Parliament from the rent allowance;]] [[calls on the Government not to use the rent allowance as a cover for the support of MPs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u255	As a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u256	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u257	The pits of the inner pockets. Now it's just about supporting MPs. The motion is not only about supporting MPs but also about political parties. Do I understand Mr Van Raak that he is fine with that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u258	No, we weren't for that either. So we're consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u259	Well, consistently, that's not in the motion. It would have decorated Mr Van Raak if he had just included that in the motion instead of turning these two against each other if he really meant something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u260	No, that there are other bad things I agree with Mr Sneller. If we agree that the money for politicians should not come out of the rent allowance, then that is very nice. Then I see a beautiful majority here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u261	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u262	I would like to give Mr Van Raak: that too is not money for politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u263	Then who's it for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u264	Thank you. Yeah, that discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u265	I believe that Mr Van Raak has been a member of the board of his political party. He knows very well what political parties are spending money on, such as the scientific office that Mr Van Raak has had a lot to do with. At least with us, the people who work there are not politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u266	No, but with us, they do work for the politics of the SP. I like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u268	What I look forward to, especially with Mr Sneller and others, is the debate on the binding corrective referendum. We have the State Commission, we have the Council of State, we have a State Secretary who says: I don't know what I think yet, but at least I thought it was a good advice. I also see outside the Chamber that not only 70% of the population is in favour, but that more and more scientists, more and more commentators, journalists, people who are watching with us and thinking along with us, find that means a fantastic addition to our representative democracy. The referendum is the glue of our democracy. We can put it away in drawers, we can abolish it again and we can try to get out of it, but it keeps coming back into this room. I think it's the only way to get rid of it. I look forward to that debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u269	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik. That is contrary to the order on the list of speakers, but that is with the approval of the rest of the Chamber. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's how I'm gonna be able to sit in front of you later. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and the way in which he has represented the cabinet here today. Of course I wish the Minister well, but I have already done so one-on-one. I am starting with a disappointment, because we are seeing that libraries and pools may be closed and that concern cannot be delivered, just because the cabinet leaves 11 billion on the shelf. That's the upside-down world. Friend and enemy in this house agree that this cannot be the intention of a system that we have ever invented, but it turns out we are powerless to come to a solution. I also see in Mr Van der Molen's eyes and head that he is actually very unhappy with that. So I repeat my appeal to the Secretary of State and through him to the whole cabinet: do not let it come to this and make sure that you come to a solution before the end of the year. Mr President, I will conclude. The rest comes at a later date, for example the reduction in age when voting to 16 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and also for the commitments he has made, including on the stress test. I understand very well that, as he said, Remkes has already done so in a way. I have only tried, as a financial spokesman with different scenarios, for example with certain shock tests, to show where the problems arise. That is, of course, what Remkes did not do, but I do think that we should take that recommendation first. I therefore believe that spring would be a very good time to discuss this further. The same applies to the trust rule. I thank him for the commitment to look at it in conjunction with the cabinet formation. But I am also very much concerned about the functioning of the confidence rule later in the procedure, but I think we understand each other very well. With regard to the urgency of the legislation that follows from the Remkes State Commission, I hope that anyone who has called for it will also contact the senators of those parties to at least ensure that the treatment can continue. I see that Mr Bishop is doing that right now. The Secretary of State and I didn't agree on the political appointments. In my view, it is important to properly organise power and counterpower and transparency. I do not mean this power and opposition in the general sense that the cabinet is always controlled by the Chamber, because of course the Secretary of State is quite right about that. It is also important that this is properly regulated and that the role of the Chamber is already defined in advance. I also agree with the Secretary of State that others can and sometimes should have a role in this. For me, however, it is a matter of increasing the extent and manner of involvement of the Chamber and making it consistent between the different institutions. This is now too often exclusively invested with the government or even with one person in office. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is essential for the future stability of the democratic rule of law to ensure adequate checks-and-balances in appointment procedures for democratic institutions, such as the High Colleges of State, Planning Offices, Advisory Colleges and Zbos;]] [[whereas the formal role of the House of Representatives in these appointment procedures is a significant part of those checks, whereas at present it is often too short and, moreover, not consistent between different institutions;]] [[calls on the Government to review the appointment procedures for the main democratic institutions, so that the role of the House of Representatives increases as, firstly, the involvement of the Chamber in the functioning of the organisation and, secondly, the importance of the independence of the organisation in question is increased,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller and Mr Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u274	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, thank you very much for answering the many questions. And of course also compliments: well done! I thought it was a piece of corvee. But you're good at it. Given the time available, I would like to proceed immediately to the reading of the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that people leave many digital footprints in life and have different personal digital possessions such as photos, videos, e-books and financial digital possessions such as bitcoins;]] [[noting that research shows that nine out of ten Dutch people have nowhere indicated what to do with their online accounts;]] [[Whereas it may be unnecessarily complicated for survivors if they do not know what the deceased would have wanted with his or her digital inheritance and often do not have access to that digital legacy because of the lack of passwords;]] [[calls on the government to work intensively with the sector to raise people's awareness of digital legacy and to encourage them to capture their wishes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer, Mr Middendorp and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u276	The next motion, with an apology for the English words. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of the Interior is taking good steps to legally anchor the right to challenge;]] [[whereas sometimes the taking over of a public task is too much to challenge;]] [[whereas the right to cooperate is then an intermediate form, whereby residents are entitled to cooperate with the municipality but do not take over a task as a whole;]] [[calls on the Government to further develop the right to cooperate with the VNG in a model regulation and to bring it to the attention of municipalities and provinces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer, Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u277	No, Mr. Chairman. That's what I changed my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u278	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u279	There's absolutely no way. But thank you for confirming me in that thought. I had a question for Mrs Den Boer about the right to challenge. You praise the Minister for having laid this down so well in the law, while you have heard from a number of colleagues, including myself, that they think that the Minister does not go far enough. Municipalities would have to decide on rules on this matter. Could you reconsider why you don't think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u280	The Minister has written an extensive letter about the right to challenge, that English concept. It intends to lay this down in Article 70 of the Municipal Law. She's already taking a big step. She also makes this model regulation and encourages several municipalities to proceed with the right to challenge. I think that's a fantastic idea. And, as I said the day before yesterday, there can be some haste with these laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u281	Finally, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u282	I found the Secretary of State very clear, also on behalf of the Minister: he does not want to go so far as to impose it on the municipalities. As far as we're concerned, there's still some room. But I would like to ask Mrs Den Boer: does she not think it is important for the position of citizens and for the legal certainty of citizens that we should not make it too non-binding? If we talk to you about this in a further debate, will you think about it with these parties to ensure that it is properly regulated for the citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u283	I hear words like "obligatory" and "freedom." As regards "obligatory": municipalities make this choice themselves; they are autonomous in it. The same applies to the inhabitants. I like that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u284	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u285	Mr. Chairman. The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the General Court notes that diversity in government advisory colleges is lagging behind, despite the legal obligation in Article 12 (3) of the Framework Law Advisory Colleges to strive for a proportionate participation of women and persons belonging to ethnic or cultural minorities;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to promote diversity in advisory colleges by 1 March 2020, involving the Court's conclusions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u286	The reason why I have tabled this motion is that the emphasis is on the plan of action. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment regarding the international competition for zippers on the electoral lists. In the autumn of 2019, this research will be carried out. We, of course, look forward to this with the Minister and the Secretary of State. We are also looking forward to a cabinet response to this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u287	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u288	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the way in which he has replaced the Minister of the Interior here and also defended the policy for his own part of the budget. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I indicated that it is important for the Christian Union that the government, after the people, is in service and also at home, also for the people who live not in the Randstad but in other regions of the country. That is why I co-signed the motion that Mr Van der Molen has just tabled. We must also weigh the impact on the regions of the measures we are taking here. Mr. Chairman. I shall table three motions for resolutions following the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to safeguard the democratic rule of law at all levels of government and it is therefore important to avoid vulnerabilities;]] [[noting that it is currently not legally established that integrity testing of candidate directors is carried out in municipalities, provinces and water boards;]] [[calls on the Government to provide legal evidence that municipalities, provinces and water boards will conduct an integrity investigation prior to the appointment of new directors;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the proposal for the local elections of 2022 is in place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Den Boer and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u289	Then a motion on the concerns about municipalities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that government policies often have a direct or indirect financial impact on municipalities;]] [[noting that many municipalities are currently experiencing financial deficits;]] [[whereas these deficits are manifest not only in the social domain but also in other municipal policy areas;]] [[Whereas care exists or the resources available to municipalities are sufficient for the tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to assess the financial impact of the policy measures on municipalities across the board, and to report to the Chamber by 1 April at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u290	Then there's a motion on electoral age. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the turnout rate of young people in elections is lower than the average;]] [[Whereas, in addition to reaching the electoral age, the acquisition of Dutch nationality also leads to the acquisition of the right to vote;]] [[considers that acquiring them is a significant moment;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the Dutch Society of Mayors and youth representatives, to make proposals to further fill in the voting time for new voters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Graaf and Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have five motions and I will get right on that, but not until I say thank you to the Secretary of State, who did a great job. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in its annual report for 2018, the Council of State calls for reflection on the legislative process and states that the law remains of lasting importance for trust in the democratic rule of law only if the legislative process and substantive standardisation are consistent;]] [[Whereas there are serious grounds for questioning the legislative process prior to the reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into the way in which, in preparing the reclassification advice and in the legislative process prior to the reclassification process, the rules in force at the time for municipal reclassification have been dealt with,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this cabinet aims to enable everyone to participate in the digital age;]] [[Whereas this does not correspond to reality;]] [[Whereas the budget for this purpose is being reduced;]] [[calls on the government to take the needs of the less digitised citizens into account in the use of the budget for digitisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the municipality is responsible for combating poverty;]] [[Whereas the legislator provides municipalities with the possibility to waive municipal taxes;]] [[Whereas the cancellation of municipal taxes could lead to a fall in poverty in employment;]] [[Whereas the argument of poverty trap does not apply to AOWs with no pension or a small pension;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how municipalities apply remission of municipal taxes to the AOW's group without or with a limited supplementary pension, and whether a standard legislation for remission is desirable for this group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to sign escape routes and emergency exits in state real estate which are already suitable for disabled persons with a recognizable pictogram,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-32]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-33]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u292	And the last one, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is considerable investment in making buildings accessible to disabled people;]] [[Whereas there is little investment in the possibility of leaving buildings in emergency situations;]] [[calls on the Government to serve as an example in those areas where remodelling or remodelling of state real estate is at issue, by establishing escape routes and emergency exits for disabled persons and by providing them with a recognisable pictogram,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u294	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u295	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I have only partially been able to follow the answer given by the Secretary of State, but what I have heard has made me realize that I have missed a great deal. Thanks for the answer. Thank you for both the written and oral answers. Thank you, therefore, in the direction of your staff who have provided the written response. Briefly, three points. First of all, something about the Coroner's Act. I was disappointed in the written answer. It is, of course, known that the rates may be maximum cost-covering. Nevertheless, we note huge differences and this is not only due to the fact that some municipalities are going to be below the cost-covering rate. The Secretary of State sends a letter to the municipalities. I would urge him to draw attention to the need to keep prices affordable, particularly in view of the lower income groups. The second point I would like to come back to is the prayer calls by mosques. That answer too is not entirely satisfactory. First of all, too little distinction is made between the beers of a church bell that can happen for various reasons, including on Sundays, and the azan. Moreover, the reasons for this point are not fully justified. Our reason for raising this point is that there seems to be a tendency to strengthen these prayer calls. We regret the Secretary of State's refusal to investigate. If we do not think about it now, we fear that this will become an ever greater problem in society. The last point I would like to draw attention to is the local tax area. I found the answer to that point striking. I had a feeling it was some kind of copy-paste. In the previous cabinet, we have also raised this issue. And what did that cabinet say? That's gonna take care of the next cabinet! And that next cabinet is this cabinet. So I see those same sentences coming back. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whatever guarantee he can give that the next cabinet will actually and inevitably regulate the point of increasing the local tax area under simultaneous reduction of the state tax area. I am very curious to see the strong measures and the bold action that he is known to take, in order to really lay down the right guarantees here. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u296	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I have Mr Öztürk on my list, but I do not see him. Then I will go to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u297	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to table four motions to strengthen the concrete proposals we have made in the first period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the media have an essential role to play in controlling power and that, therefore, democracy cannot function properly without free press;]] [[noting that the government sees it as its task to control or control the media in order to "protect Dutch society from disinformation," a direct quote by Mrs Ollongren, now absent;]] [[Whereas it is not for the public authorities to label, directly or indirectly, free press publications as true or false;]] [[calls on the Government to stop any interference in the free press and therefore any fight against so-called "disinformation,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u298	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that national political parties receive millions of euros in grants each year, some of which are redirected to their local departments to pay, for example, campaigns and courses;]] [[noting that local political parties do not receive any subsidies at all, thus creating an uneven playing field at municipal level;]] [[Whereas this inequality cannot be defended, particularly as election results show that there is an increasing need for the sound of local political parties;]] [[noting that the Minister previously expressed sympathy for the idea of subsidising local parties, but that he did not have any money available;]] [[having noted that the Chamber of the General Political Reviews has adopted a motion to increase the amount of funding for political parties by EUR 9 million;]] [[calls on the Government to reserve this amount to the extent that it creates a level playing field for the subsidising of local political parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u299	The Veling Committee has investigated this and also proposed funding for local parties. The Veling Committee said: then we should also finance local sections of parties operating nationally. Does Mr Baudet agree? Then I know exactly what he means by his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u300	Um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u301	You can think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u302	Yeah, well, that's an interesting point. Look, what Kars Veling said about this can be done, so you can put it all on the organisational structure that we now have constitutionally, with those three layers. But one of the problems you then face is that not all parties are decentralised in the same way. One party does have a department, the other doesn't. So you don't need the structure that Veling saw in mind to be able to carry out this motion in itself, but it can be fine. If this motion is adopted, it is up to the Minister to make a concrete proposal. She can go either way. But I don't think it's necessarily necessary to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u303	Then I conclude that you do not rule that out. At least that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u304	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u305	Parties are financed, among other things, because they are represented in this house. Not only because you have seats here, you get funding, but also because you have seats in Provincial States or in Councils. So I guess you can't see them apart. But if you don't rule it out, at least we're a whole step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u306	That's a win, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u307	What are we indeed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u308	Yeah, cooperative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u309	Yes, thank you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are no polling stations on barracks and soldiers cannot leave the barracks without permission;]] [[whereas those who put the most at risk for our country, namely their lives, should be fully supported in their democratic rights;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to achieve voting rooms at barracks at the next elections and all subsequent elections so that soldiers can vote more easily,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u310	Finally, I would like to table a motion to stop the call for the prayer of mosques. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas an Islamic prayer call can be heard in a few streets in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas this is incompatible with Dutch values and culture;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to stop these audible prayer calls immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u311	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u312	Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u313	Mr President, I can imagine that it is a disappointment for Mr Baudet, but the question is not addressed to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u314	Well, then, who is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u315	Let me make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u316	Oh, come on. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u317	I had actually expected Mr Öztürk to speak in the second term. We miss him needy, because I had him yesterday...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u318	Promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u319	...promised something. I sent him that and I would like to hear his reflection on that. His statement that the turnout rate is rising at the time of the Sunday elections is, in fact, wrong. I sent him that information, but I really miss him now, because I would have liked him to have been behind the speaker's chair and simply acknowledged that, thanks to that survey that the SGP sent, he was drawing on public information, based on the turnout rates of the EU countries, the conclusion is that of the 28 EU countries 19 votes on Sunday and that of those 19 countries 13 have a turnout rate lower than that of the Netherlands and that of the 8 countries with a higher turnout it is due in three cases to a voteout obligation. In other words, Mr Öztürk's theorem is no good. I would have loved it and also loyal, courteous and chivalrous if he had publicly acknowledged it, but perhaps at a later stage you can do it again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u320	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. You've made your point. The fact that you miss Mr Öztürk is also in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u321	Mr President, that is just like Mr Bosma who then misses the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u322	Thank you. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u323	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands we need to strengthen the link between citizens and politics;]] [[Whereas Estonia has extensive experience of reinventing democracy through the use of online democratic participation and online voting;]] [[whereas Estonian online democracy is seen as a major international success through its contribution to political transparency and public confidence;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has already organised a meeting in 2017 in which information on Estonian methods has been gathered;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how Estonia's successful methods of online democracy in the Netherlands can be adopted and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands we need to strengthen the link between citizens and politics;]] [[whereas Estonian online democracy is seen as a major international success through its contribution to political transparency and public confidence;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has already organised a meeting in 2017 in which information on Estonian methods has been gathered;]] [[Whereas an online profile is used in Estonia to consult and vote on the population;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities for referenda and citizen participation through DigiD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-41]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-4.u324	I shall suspend the sitting until 2.05 p.m. Then we will first say goodbye to our colleague Mr Fritsma of the PVV. After that, we have the arrangement of work. I am looking at the Secretary of State if he has sufficient time to give an opinion on the motions that have been tabled. Knowing him, that's the case.
