ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are now going to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66 for his question to the Minister of Finance, who is replacing the Secretary of State. His question concerns the notice that periodic penalty payments for Harsco and Tata Steel are deductible from the tax. I call Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Many people living in the IJmuiden region, in Wijk aan Zee, suffer from graphite and dust rains that come from Tata's terrain and to be precise about the American company Harsco. They are very concerned about their health and they are not alone in this, because the province of North Holland has already imposed a penalty payment on that company 30 times in the period October-December for violating environmental rules. I know that this also has the attention of our colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but what does it turn out to be? Such a penalty payment that you have to pay as a company because you don't follow the rules is deductible from the income tax. D66 just thinks that's a bad idea, so I have a very short question for the Minister. Does the cabinet want to propose that periodic penalty payments that companies have to pay because they do not comply with the law should no longer be deductible from the tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Mr Van Weyenberg for his question. The Secretary of State will be excused, because he is currently in the First Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg asks an understandable and very logical question, given what is going on in this particular case. I would like to make a few introductory remarks and then answer his question. In the Netherlands, corporation tax and income tax are levied on total profits, and that is what Mr Van Weyenberg knows, like no other person, the difference between turnover and costs. The costs are therefore, in principle, deductible. This means that periodic penalty payments, other than fines for example, are in principle also deductible. Of course, we have all seen this particular case and there is something strange about that. There the government did not impose a large number of periodic penalty payments on the central government, which did not lead to any change in behaviour. In the meantime, the amount of the penalty payment has changed, but the question remains whether that is effective. Mr Van Weyenberg's question is: shouldn't you also want to examine those instruments? He also specifically asked whether the cabinet would like to amend it. I understand that it has also been discussed extensively in the Security Council and that several groups have, I think, rightly called for attention to be paid to this particular point. I would like to say two things with a small blow to the arm. The first thing I'd like to say is that we're going to do an investigation to see if and, if so, how this is possible. I say it with a small blow to the arm, knowing that both the Secretary of State and myself have a positive basic attitude in this, because we both feel what Mr Van Weyenberg is pointing out. Two. Suppose that the research would yield something, then we could make an adjustment and settle this in the 2020 Tax Plan, but that is again with a small blow to the arm. But I'm always very careful with "if so," which is why I'm holding the little punch around the arm. I believe that in a process it is neat and prudent to first conduct the investigation and report to the Chamber what it produces and then, if there is any reason to take action again, we are in a positive position to include it in a tax plan as soon as possible, hopefully I say 'hopefully', Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as early as 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	I welcome the Minister's reply, which indicates that the cabinet actually agrees with D66, in fact with all parties in my view. We have periodic penalty payments because you don't follow the rules. Then it is weird that we reduce the effect of these periodic penalty payments by being deductible. I understand that the Minister says "I have to keep a small blow to the arm because I still have an investigation to do," an investigation into the feasibility, I think. But can I sum it up like that? The cabinet agrees with D66 on the question of whether and how to deal with this, the Minister wishes to act with care. That's what I'm always for. But the approach is very clear, namely that we are putting an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	I would like to say it in my own words. Then I would like to start by saying that this case at least justifies us investigating it. That you then want to look at how widespread this practice is, and if you would like to adjust it along the lines that Mr.Van Weyenberg sketches about what outcome consequences you get, is a relevant question, because that means that you need to understand through what the taxpayers report to you about the number of periodic penalty payments that are imposed and then correct it. Mr Van Weyenberg knows better than anyone that the Tax Administration has something to do in the field of implementation, so that is a point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	I understand the formal reservation made by the Minister. Of course it has to be feasible, everyone wants it to be. We also know that the IRS is in pretty bad weather. But the cabinet here today, as far as I'm concerned, says it's weird that you can reduce the effect of periodic penalty payments. I'm happy about that. I would like to ask the Minister whether we can, for example, get a state of affairs in mid-March as regards the question of whether it could be possible to do so. I understand that the cabinet is doing some homework, and I appreciate the positive basic attitude, but then we hear whether it intends to introduce a legislative amendment. D66 believes that the answer to that question should be "yes." I have one more question: can we also look at how we deal with settlements? In the documents, also on the website of the Tax Administration, I read that a settlement you make to prevent you from being prosecuted is not deductible. Then I do not understand why, for example, the settlement with ING states that "ING has stated that it will not claim a tax deduction in relation to the payments mentioned below." This concerns both the 675 million and the payment of 100 million to remove illegally obtained benefit. That commitment relates to those two articles, but that gives me the impression that ING could have chosen to deduct that amount or part of it. That seems very undesirable to me. I'm glad they don't, but they shouldn't. Does the Minister also want to include the question of how we deal with settlements in the letter to the Chamber that has been promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	First of all, let's talk about the first point. Mid-March's in six weeks. I thought "Taxation Plan 2020" sounded like the speed of light. I would like to return to the Chamber as soon as possible, but I would like to give the Secretary of State a little time to do this right. Then we'll get back to the Chamber as soon as possible. If Mr Van Weyenberg agrees, I would like to say this in response to point one. On the second point, I am and the Cabinet is certainly prepared to investigate that. I'm sure that'll call for alignment with JenV. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly refers here to one case which is partly in my policy area, but this is of course the bread and butter of the Ministry of Justice and Security. I would also like to undertake that investigation, but I think that is another investigation. So we have to tear these two things apart. Mr Van Weyenberg receives two investigations in one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. Mr Von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Van Weyenberg and the Minister indicated that this issue was discussed last week during the AO External Security. There is no doubt that this will lead to a motion for a resolution. But what my main focus is on is whether the Minister focuses that research only that everything is part of the Environmental Management Act. Or does he extend the investigation much wider? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	The next question is on the agenda: I have understood Mr Van Weyenberg and I think he is the most helpful. Do we all consider it reasonable, desirable and fair to say it legally: reasonable and fair to say that if you run into a penalty payment, you can then say that you want to subtract it? On the one hand, taxation looks completely neutral and has no moral judgment as to what should be deducted. Costs incurred for professions which some may question, but which may indeed be exercised, may also be deducted. On the other hand, you say: it is quite remarkable that a company ignores periodic penalty payments after penalty payments and the citizen ultimately has problems. I would like to take the lead in this matter. If there is reason to do it specifically with regard to the environment, we will include it in the research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. You're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr President, it is unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	You can drink your coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	It tasted like more, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. Now let's go to the last question.
