ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, we will look at Mr De Roon's questions on behalf of the PVV to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about a Dutch diplomat who is an activist against Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. You have become a knight of the French Legion of Honour, but you have said that you do not want to be congratulated 150 times today. I will not therefore express my congratulations here, although I would like to do so. I think you will be pleased to note that this knighthood has been granted to you, among other things, because of your contribution to the good relations between France and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	Like a real diplomat, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	But, Mr. Chairman... Meanwhile, there is a Dutch diplomat working to undermine our good relations with another country, Israel. This diplomat, with a history of anti-Israeli activism, who is also an employee of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, has set up a foundation to pursue the single state solution. It is therefore firmly opposed to the policy of the government aimed at a two-state solution. I have three questions about this. Does the Minister consider it acceptable that an official should take decisive action against a cornerstone of his foreign policy? What is the Minister going to do about this situation? I would say, in fact, that it is an injustice, because it is an undermining behavior of one of his officials. Is the Minister still holding on to the two-state solution, or is he open to that destructive pursuit of his subordinate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Roon asks questions about the activity of an individual employee of my ministry during unpaid leave. To answer those specific questions, it is important to first answer the question of what scope there is for people in public administration to be active and to use freedom of expression and freedom of association. That space is not going to surprise Mr. De Roon, as laid down in the Civil Service Act. It offers a great deal of space for this, unless it really would be very contrary to the job performance. It is also widely used. Many members of this Chamber have been officials in the past, as have Mr De Roon himself. Many civil servants are also active as city council members, states member or in civil society organisations. Only when there would be a very sharp contradiction, does the law allow for restrictions to be imposed. In practice, the review is generally submitted to the Advisory Committee on Fundamental Rights and Functions of Officials. In the State Department, we apply this legal rule in such a way that we look closely at whether there is a relationship with the direct fulfillment of functions. These were activities during unpaid leave, which were also reported in advance. The post that the employee performs after unpaid leave also has no relationship with the Middle East peace process. So that is all neatly within the rules that the law lays down. Mr De Roon also asked whether it was still a cabinet policy to be in favour of a two-state solution. Mr De Roon knows the answer to that, that is indeed a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	That One State Foundation, or at least the diplomat we are talking about here, calls political, diplomatic and economic pressure on Israel essential. Especially the latter, that economic pressure on Israel, reeks of BDS, Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions, directed against Israel. The pursuit of sanctions is not surprising either, because in 2014 she called for an immediate boycott of the State of Israel until "the occupation," as she calls it, will have ended and the Palestinians, as she calls it, will be "free." With its foundation, this diplomat pursues the dismantling of Israel as a Jewish state and that is purely anti-Semitism. The PVV believes that Israel is and should remain a Jewish state, as long as the Israeli people choose to do so. It is not appropriate to want to change that from the outside. So I have a number of questions on this, namely four. I ask the Minister to distance himself from the efforts of BDS and hence from the actions of the diplomat and her foundation One State Foundation. Does the Minister intend to pronounce that here? Secondly, does he want to remove this source of anti-Semitism from the corps diplomaticique? Thirdly, does this diplomat, who is on unpaid leave, still have a diplomatic passport, and if so, does the Minister want to withdraw it, so that she cannot use it to the benefit of her political aspirations? Fourthly: is or was the One State Foundation funded directly or indirectly by the Dutch government, and if so, does the Minister intend to put an end to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	With regard to the first question, the opinion of the cabinet and the opinion of an official, it is again important to go back to the Civil Service Act and to the important principles of freedom of expression and freedom of association enshrined in our Constitution. It is not the case that every official in the Netherlands has to find exactly the same thing as the minister or government concerned. I see a lot of laughter in the benches. Yes, that would indeed be rather complicated, so that's why we didn't arrange it that way. It is true that civil servants can be expected to carry out government policy faithfully. Only when there is cause for doubt will action be taken. The government has the view that BDS is really a completely incorrect policy. This does not mean that people should not have that opinion personally, just as officials should vote for any political party, regardless of the composition of the government or the political colour of the ruler. Then, in his second question, Mr De Roon asks for an official to be dismissed on the basis of an opinion. I don't think we should want to go there in the Netherlands. The criterion is whether people fulfil their function properly, and in this case there is no reason to doubt it. Then the third question is whether the employee concerned has a diplomatic passport. I have over 3,000 employees under my responsibility and I don't know who has which passport. This organization does not receive government subsidies, at least not state subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	I do not yet hear the Minister distance himself from the one state foundation's efforts to marginalize Israel. I'd like that answer to that. I would like to receive the answer to the question about the passport in writing. Finally, Mr President. I do not think that the Minister is putting his fist on the table to put an end to this kind of anti-Semitic ambition by one of his officials. But I'm giving the Minister another chance. The German government doesn't think Jews should wear their yarmulke everywhere. If that happens, it would be yet another marginalization of the Jews. The PVV doesn't want that. Finally, therefore, I ask the Minister to give his support here, and I ask that my colleagues in the House of Representatives also take part in a manifestation which calls on CIDI to take part tomorrow at 14.00 p.m. at the Square in front of the House of Representatives, the participants of which are asked to wear a kettle. Then we show that we support the Jews in our society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	Like Mr De Roon, I think it is important for people in the Netherlands to be free to live and express their religions or the fact that they have no religion. So I, too, think Jews should have the freedom to wear a stick the moment they want to. Mr De Roon then asked me to support the positions of the institutions or to distance myself from them, but I am not going to take part in them. The government's views are obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	It is a good thing that Mr De Roon draws attention to this and also refers to the call to wear a yarmulke tomorrow as a sign of solidarity with the Jewish community. I have a question for the Minister. Actually, he's saying, "Freedom of speech, nothing to worry about." My question is: isn't that just too easy? Isn't this a reason to look at this again? If a civil servant is given special leave, it is not quite normal; that is something special to become politically activist exactly against cabinet policy, isn't that problematic for the performance of a function? What if that person ends up in a post again, anywhere, and that Dutch policy has to be loyally defended? Then you can refer to that: look what you have said and written. So there's no more tension on this, that's how I'm asking the Minister. Does he want to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr Van der Staaij started with a wording that is not mine. He put me in the mouth that I would have said: freedom of speech, nothing to worry about. I have said that this is a very important constitutional principle, that it also applies to civil servants and that this can only be limited if there is direct concern that it will hinder the performance of the function. We test that very carefully. There is also a separate review committee for this. In the specific case requested by Mr De Roon, the employee concerned is currently not in a position to have a relationship with the Middle East Peace Process. Otherwise, you could say that's close together. We have dealt with it in the Netherlands in the following way: a constitutional arrangement that puts freedom of expression and freedom of association first, a further elaboration in the Civil Service Act and in regulations by department, and a review committee. I think that's the right way. We really should not go to a country where civil servants would not be able to have different political opinions and to use the fundamental rights that others have. There really must be very urgent reasons for restricting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u17	I, too, will be at the demonstration tomorrow, with a yarmulke on, to express my solidarity with the Jewish people and with what is happening in Germany now. I have the following question to the Minister. I assume this lady has a return scheme. Does the Minister think that any official should be available everywhere? If that is the case, it must be able to play a credible role in which it can actively and enthusiastically promote government policy. Does the Minister believe that it is still credible, assuming that an official should be able to carry out all the functions, including the Middle East dossier? If she is given such a position, she can still be credible in carrying out that function...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u18	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u19	...the moment she said this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u20	These are actually two questions. First of all, the general question as to whether every official should always be able to do anything. The second question is: do I have confidence in the lady in question? The answer to the second question is yes. The answer to the first question is not that every official must always be able to do everything anywhere. Each job is subject to specific training requirements. There are functions that require more stringent requirements. That could be related to trust requirements. Sometimes these demands also extend to close relatives. So the wording that Mr Voordewind started with is actually incorrect. That's never gonna work for a government organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we will say goodbye to our colleague, Mr Buma.
