ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today we begin with Mr Bosman's question on behalf of the VVD to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I also welcome, about the collection of children from the IS area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The images we see of the huge crimes committed by the jihad warriors of Islamic State are terrible. It's beyond comprehension what these people are capable of. The horrors cannot be described with a pen, and even more disgusting, these crimes against humanity make these criminals open and bare. It can't be a surprise for people who stand for Islamic State, namely oppression, abuse, death and destruction. If you, as an adult, knowingly choose to participate in these crimes, that is all the more reason to lose Dutch nationality. Today we are talking about two orphans, 2 and 4 years old, assigned by a judge to a Dutch guardian. Children who have not chosen the crimes and are now orphaned. The cabinet has decided to actively bring these children back. The VVD has the following questions. Is the government's view that no consular assistance is provided in unsafe areas still in force? How does this relate to the action of a Dutch official in Northern Syria to bring these two orphans back? Does the State Department see Northern Syria as a safe area? How large is the population of orphans of Dutch nationality who may also be eligible for this treatment? Has it been determined whether these children may also have other nationalities? Was the recovery of this creature legally mandatory and what does that prove? What does that mean for the current policy that we do not actively bring people back? Are there any other exceptions? How does the State Department get the information that they're actually creatures? And finally, why did the Chamber not receive the letter until after the North Syrian authorities put the video and the message online and after it was distributed through the Dutch journalist Harald Doornbos?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman rightly starts by pointing out the terrible crimes committed by ISIS and that this is also the reason for the government's policy as has been repeatedly communicated to the Chamber. Indeed, on 10 June we informed the Chamber about the recovery of two orphans, whose custody was granted by the judge to the Dutch government, to Youth Services. First of all, Mr Bosman raises the question of whether this is contrary to the non-provision of consular assistance in unsafe areas. The line is still: no consular assistance is provided in unsafe areas. We now face a unique situation: two orphans whose custody has been granted to the Dutch government and the availability of a French mission to retrieve French orphans. The unique meeting of these two facts has made this operation possible. How is it that a Dutch official was involved? Is that gonna make Northern Syria safe? No, Northern Syria is still very unsafe. It was also a highly secure operation and because it concerned two Dutch orphans it was also logical that a Dutch official was available for the transfer of these two orphans. How many orphans are in the same state? There are currently no other orphans in the former Syriac territory or in Syriac territory whose custody has been granted to the Dutch State. The question then was whether the Netherlands is legally obliged. Mr Grapperhaus and I have previously sent letters on the legal position of the Dutch State. In this we have indicated that the International Convention on the Rights of the Child entails a special responsibility for orphans, without indicating that they will always be and can always be taken back. But there is indeed a special obligation and it coincided with these particular circumstances. This does not alter the current policy on this subject, as Mr Bosman's next question has just been asked. Has there been any verification of the existence of the creature? Sure. That is also the basis for the judge's judgment. Before he granted custody, the judge has been appointed to the Dutch State. Childcare checks whether they are orphans and whether they are indeed Dutch nationals. That is also the case. The last question was about the timing of the letter that I sent to the Chamber together with Mr Grapperhaus and the earlier release of the film by the Kurdish authorities in the area. We have agreed with the French authorities that, given the enormous security guarantees, there would only be reporting from our side when we were sure that all concerned were in safe territory. We kept our end of the bargain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you for this explanation. I still have a few questions. In principle, the Minister says that the information that is the creature is related to the judge. But how does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself come to the conclusion that they really are creatures? Or is it all purely a judicial test? How do we know the judge has all the information he needs to come to the conclusion that they're actual beings? I wouldn't want a father or a mother to stand up in Syria or Iraq who says 'yes, but wait a minute' and that a boy or girl who has been brought to the Netherlands doesn't turn out to be an orphan. So how does the State Department itself, autonomously, know they're creatures? Of course, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is essential. But when the judge makes a ruling, there is not automatically the obligation of the government to take action. The cabinet itself says: as long as it's not safe, we won't go. That was the deal. I believe that this appointment has been made several times with the Chamber: where the situation is not safe, we are not going to do it. Is it still the policy of the cabinet and this minister to place that order? Can the Minister confirm that this is a unique case? It has just been said that we cannot predict what will happen in the future. But is it a unique case that is a precedent for others? Or is it a course of action we're going to hear more about in the future? How did the French and the Dutch get together? Was that a coincidence? Is that what you've been talking about? To what extent was an appointment made there? Finally, Mr President, I have a question about other nationalities of orphans. I read in the newspaper that some of these children also have Belgian nationality. How can we be sure that this is not the case? Has there been contact with the Belgians about this nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Bosman's first question is whether the Foreign Office is going to check alongside the judge himself. In the Netherlands, a ruling by the judge is a very serious fact. Before a judge assigns custody to the Dutch State or... Child care is carefully verified that the person is indeed an orphan, otherwise the judge is not in a position to assign custody either. There was therefore an action on the basis of the judgment. The question is: does the Convention on the Rights of the Child automatically imply that there is an obligation to bring a child back into this situation? It's not automatic. I have also indicated that it is a special coincidence that these are two orphans who, on the basis of judgments, fall under the responsibility of the Dutch State and are available for a French mission with the same purpose, with strong guidance going into the area. That is also the answer to the question of whether the policy is still: no Dutch bring in an unsafe area. That's still the policy. We could have a highly secure French mission here that went there for the same purpose. How did we get together? There is, of course, regular contact between the countries involved in similar situations. This applies to a large number of countries. Moreover, many countries have taken the same decision. France has done that before. That's why we knew there were missions like this. Norway and Sweden have done the same. Germany has announced its readiness to take similar steps. So there's regular contact with that. I know there are speculations in the press about which children this is about, but the privacy guarantees apply to me in this role too. I'm not going to publicly confirm which children are involved or not. I repeat that it has been established that the children really have Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr Bosman. Then I will go to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. The most important thing we have to do as a government and as a Second Chamber, as an auditor of the government, is to ensure that the inhabitants of the Netherlands are safe on their territory. Now we have security services and they have already indicated four times in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, the DTN I think it was the reports 49, 52 and two other reports that the recovery of children is very dangerous and that this is not recommended. That is important, because with that we keep the Netherlands safe, by keeping those children there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u9	And the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u10	The introduction is important for that question. The Minister of Justice and Security does not want to pursue a policy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u11	And the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u12	...but the State Department seems to be pursuing a policy. I would like to know from the Minister who in the cabinet is directing this file around the orphans, but also when it comes to all the other children and the mothers who are still in the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr De Graaf is right that safety should be paramount. However, these are very, very young children, who cannot be indoctrinated in any way or prepare for attacks. In this case, this safety is not at stake by transferring these substances. The cabinet works closely with the ministers most concerned. This letter was signed by me first, together with Mr Grapperhaus. This illustrates that we are working closely together in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr De Graaf for his second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u15	Then I would like to ask the director, in person the minister standing there, Minister Blok for Foreign Affairs, the following question. He walks a bit lightly over this matter in the vein of: the recall of these two creatures is safe. Well, we'll talk about that in a while, because you never know how they develop. They were raised with the wrong ideas after all. I therefore want the Minister's assurance that these orphans, who are being retrieved, will not be the lever to bring all the other children and their mothers back to the Netherlands. Can the Minister guarantee that this will remain and that no one else will come back to the Netherlands from that area, both mothers and children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u16	It concerns very, very young creatures. Mr De Graaf's suggestion that these children have already been indoctrinated does not apply to that age. The policy towards others in the area, i.e. mothers with children, has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. That's not an answer! I ask a question as a Member of Parliament and I don't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u19	Clear, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u20	I want to answer the question of whether I can get guarantees that no one will come back. Isn't that something the Minister can answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you. That's the question. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u22	I have indicated that the policy has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u23	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u25	No, you can't, Mr. De Graaf. We're just getting started. Last week we had trouble, and Tuesday again. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr. Chairman. The Minister does not give that guarantee because the Netherlands also has a responsibility for its own nationals. That fits my question. I see that the Dutch Government always wants to be forced to act, for example by court rulings. Last Saturday, Minister Grapperhaus said that there is no question of bringing people in. He literally said: "... because that is an unsafe area where we are not sending representatives of the Dutch government." What is the Minister's view that this is not the way to prepare the population, that the government does not accept its responsibility, and that it is therefore not conducive to the sense of security in this respect either?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr Grapperhaus has rightly indicated that we have the line not to send Dutch people to unsafe areas. I have indicated to you that this was a unique operation with strict safeguards through the French commitment, which had to be conducted under secrecy. That is also part of the security safeguards. It is right that Mr Grapperhaus did not violate those safeguards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u28	Your second question, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u29	It seems, above all, that the cabinet wants to protect the coalition rather than really go into security. Only yesterday a letter came in which said that because of security it could not be said whether it was indeed a Dutchman who made contact, a deal, with the Kurdish authorities. That leaves the cabinet very, very foggy. I think it is important that we give a little more clarity as to what cases we are going to do business in. Because these are two unique cases, but there are many more children who are also under the responsibility of the Netherlands. What will the Dutch Government do for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u30	First of all, when it comes to security, it is inevitable that the government should put the safety of people first in the responsibility we have. So you can't communicate about all the surgeries in public. This is a unique operation, for other reasons, but it is not unique that there can be no public discussion of operations, especially before they take place. I have indicated to you that the policy has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u31	Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u32	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u33	I asked you: you were before, but then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u34	Okay, I'll go see Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u35	It was about which microphone. I thought that microphone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u36	Well, Mr Baudet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u37	I don't care, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u38	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. I would like to ask the Minister how he thinks it would be good for the Netherlands to bring these IS children to our country. In what way is that good for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u39	It is good that the Netherlands respects the rule of law. There is a court ruling that places the responsibility for the children, the custody, with the Dutch State, with the youth care. There is an international Convention on the Rights of the Child, which does not automatically oblige us to bring children back where it is extremely dangerous. But in this case it was reasonably possible, because a French operation took place. So that combination has led to this decision by respecting the rule of law, and of course the importance of the two very small children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u40	I note that all kinds of international organisations, including UNHCR, have said and have also discussed extensively in the United Nations: Syria is largely safe. I remember very well when we had the conversations here about Lili and Howick, that they said: no, they are already home. They are rooted in the Netherlands, which you should not return to another country. They don't have anything to do with that and they don't have any affinity with that. They must remain in the Netherlands. And now we have double standards. Now they have to go back to the Netherlands, while they were born there and, if they already have any carrots, they have them there. Syria is simply safe and I can only say that this really is a very irresponsible immigration policy of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u41	In this part of Syria there are still very regular shootings, so this was an operation that had to take place with very heavy military security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr Van Helvert, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you, Madam President. The cabinet says we're not sending any of our people on behalf of the government to the dangerous area to bring people in. In addition, the fact is that there was someone on behalf of the Dutch government in that dangerous area to fetch people. That really contradicts each other. The Minister then says: yes, but this was an exceptional situation, because France did something for the same purpose. I don't think we have that goal. We have a goal: we don't send people there. France can have its own goals. So how is it that the Minister now sells it to the Chamber as being quite normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u44	The concept of'very normal' takes Mr Van Helvert in the mouth, not me. I have just indicated that two very special things came together here: children whose custody has been granted to the Dutch government, to Youth Care................................................................................................................................................................................... That makes this a very special meeting of two factualities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u45	To be honest, it's a little surreal. The Dutch cabinet says "we are not going to send Dutch officials to unsafe areas; we are not going to do that, certainly, certainly not." Even until Saturday night it was said "we're definitely not going to do that." And then it does. Then either there must have been a policy change or there is talk that the practice no longer complies with the policy. Well, you can, but then we'll be in a game of words. So I would like to ask the Minister: if there was this opportunity to pick up those two orphans and do justice to a court ruling, why wasn't the full court ruling, namely the six women and eleven children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u46	First of all: keeping an operation secret is not for our pleasure, we do so because there are really big security risks here. Sometimes a government has to take that responsibility. Again, that has happened more often, even now, and we take that responsibility. Mr Sjoerdsma refers to another court ruling, that of women with children in the camps. At this point, the judge has asked for a number of steps to be verified, to see if it is possible to bring those women with children safely to the consulate in Erbil. We have indicated that we are verifying those steps, but that this has not now led to the outcome that this is possible. That's another case. I have already indicated that this case - two orphans, Dutch guardianship, French mission specifically targeted at this target group - is really a special case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u47	Second question by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u48	It is indeed a special case, and I think that the Minister himself says that very well. I just think that this is understood by many others in the other sense of the word. I understand very well that nothing is said about the operation; I want to take away what the Minister said about it. However, the problem is that this cabinet has previously provided assistance to, for example, IS fighters in non-combat areas, even in 2017, and has not reported it to the Chamber. Just didn't report it. I still have those written questions here; they have been answered recently, in response to oral questions, in response to again unanswered written questions. The cabinet hasn't reported that happening. So can this minister imagine that there is some mistrust and that there is now also uncertainty about government policy and how it is communicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u49	Mr Sjoerdsma now refers to a third case, which in itself is also relevant. We informed the Chamber that a verification of identity was requested and that the procedure was terminated later. That really is different from the situation of the orphans or the other lawsuit, of the mothers with children. Each situation requires a very specific weighting of the legal aspects. There are major security risks in which, once again, the line really is that we are not putting Dutch people at risk. This was a very special case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u50	I am opposed to bringing terrorists to the Netherlands, but I am also very happy that we can do something good for these two very young orphans. But I also have a concern, because I know the politics and I also know the media. How can we ensure that these two young children get the peace and security to deal with the horrors they have experienced? How can we make sure they have a future in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u51	I have great faith in the Dutch Youth Services, under whose responsibility the children now fall. The fact that I didn't want to go into speculation about which children they are talking about is precisely because of your point: I would now like to give the children a safe childhood. I'll leave it to them, by the time they're of age, if they ever want to come out with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u53	It is good to hear from the Minister that he acknowledges that children of 2 years old or 4 years old cannot be indoctrinated but do need care. Half of the children in the camps who are or are entitled to Dutch nationality are under 4 years of age and they are in appalling conditions. On Friday we heard Minister Grapperhaus say that the Netherlands considers the security risks too great to help them get out of those camps. On Sunday we saw a rescue operation and last night we heard from the grandfather of one of the children that they were informed about what happens when the children return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u54	And the question is, Mrs Ploumen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u55	So three different signals. What's the government's plan? Is there now a plan to bring back the other children under 4 years of age who live in such bad conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u56	The other children referred to by Mrs Ploumen do indeed live in camps where the situation is bad, but have at least one of both parents still present and are therefore not under the supervision of the Dutch government. That's why they're really different cases. For that, the policy has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u57	Mrs Ploumen, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u58	A brief second question. So far, the government has maintained that the situation would also be too unsafe to provide active consular assistance. There was now a diplomat present and security measures were taken. Why can't they be taken in other cases? In other words, that argument has now fallen de facto, because we have all seen that video.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u59	There's the legal and the security argument. I've just given you the legal argument. That is really different for the children with generally the mother that Mrs Ploumen is talking about. As far as the security situation is concerned, I can tell you in great detail that this was a highly secure operation under French control. I cannot go public and outline how much and what measures are needed to carry out operations in such an area. I can tell you that the Dutch Government does not intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u60	I would like to thank the Cabinet on behalf of the Christian Union for its humane approach to these two orphans and for cooperating in bringing these orphans back. Compliments for that! My question is about how to proceed. The Minister said that there are no other orphans on whom the judge has granted custody to the Netherlands. That is precisely worded, but are there any other orphans on which the judge has not yet delivered that judgment? And what about children whose mother died, for example, but who had a long prison sentence in Syria or Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u61	I do not have verified reports at this time. I have heard rumors that there are other orphans of Dutch nationality in conflict. I cannot speculate on the possibility that this will happen in the future because people are dying, but at the moment I have no verified reports that there are other Dutch orphans in camps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u62	Second question, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u63	I asked two questions and the Minister answered one, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u64	No, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u65	My second question is: what is the approach of this cabinet when it comes to children who are half orphans whose father has been sentenced to a possible long prison sentence in an Iraqi or Syrian prison? What is the Dutch Government's approach to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u66	At the moment, I have not seen any specific cases about this situation either. Mothers with children, but I don't know a Dutch case. I know that has been the case with other nationalities. I do not know of a Dutch case in which this situation is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u67	A specific question from the VVD: could the recovery of these children, this situation, have been prevented by withdrawing their parents' passports?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u68	Of course, that has everything to do with timing. I'll just have to follow nationality for a while. The determining factor is nationality at the time of delivery, I think, in the Netherlands. So it depends on whether Dutch nationality has been withdrawn at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u69	This means, therefore, that if we zoom in on this, this is probably not the time to ask the people from the cabinet involved to take a critical look at this withdrawal. I would urge the cabinet to answer the questions we have asked about this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u70	If there are any questions, I assume, the colleague of Justice and Security, we will answer them as soon as possible. The effort is to withdraw that nationality wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you.
