ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	We continue with the discussion of the budget Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality (35300-XIV).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	We were working on the first term on the side of the Chamber. We are with Mr Futselaar now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	The Futs! Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Graus's great friend. Yes, you have a big fan in the room, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's gonna be a tough year. It's gonna be a hard year of hard decisions for us to make. Decisions that will affect people, businesses, families directly, but it is our job as politicians to make difficult decisions and it is not our job to postpone and train such decisions and to muddle for peace. And yet, in the context of the nitrogen crisis, this seems to be the reality. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the LNV budget today, and that is a budget which we have to say has been completely obsolete for a long time. It is not possible that we will be able to deal with the nitrogen crisis with only the existing resources. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And yet the line of this cabinet, of this minister both in the budget and in the letter on nitrogen that we have received, seems to be: we are doing it with the existing resources. Where's the sense of urgency? Where are the necessary resources? Where's the force of action? In this respect, perhaps, the resources that have now finally appeared in the budget in the context of the Urgenda ruling are typical. That ruling was in 2015. It is now 2019 and now we see how it is finally being implemented. That is four years later and we cannot wait four years when it comes to the nitrogen crisis, especially when we realise that the problem itself is decades old. The mayor of Steenwijk, a neat VVD man, is considering breaking the law. He has unsafe bridges in his municipality but can't get a permit to repair them because of the nitrogen pronunciation. So he's considering doing that without legal consent. That is the reality of the nitrogen crisis. Thousands of homes that can't be built, while people are crying out for housing. That is the reality of the nitrogen crisis. And whether we like it or not, the key to solving that crisis lies here, in agriculture and in nature. And yes, there will also have to be a lot of traffic around airports, around industry and around construction, but the core lies here, in strengthening nature and limiting the greatest nitrogen emissions, and that is livestock farming. In these circumstances, it's actually unbelievable what didn't happen. Remkes himself said it in the Chamber: it seems as if drivers have been sitting on their hands since May. The cabinet announces measures to work area-oriented, but why do we not already know what are the biggest peak drivers in nature areas? That information's been available a long time, isn't it? Remkes also says very clearly: we must now start with a rapid reduction in nitrogen. And now we are threatening to go on for months again with an integrated assessment at field level, with provinces and stakeholders meeting until there is an opinion that needs to be examined and tested. We don't have that kind of time, do we? As far as the SP is concerned, a shrinkage in livestock farming is inevitable in the context of nitrogen, as the Remkes Committee also notes. In our view, denying this is also unfair to agriculture itself, which should also know where it stands. The same applies with regard to the SP also for parties who cry along with conspiracy theories about RIVM and Wageningen Research and thus keep the suggestion alive that it is not all that bad. That does not mean, however, that we need to clean up generically. Look where the biggest peak loaders are in terms of nitrogen. Look where you can get the most CO profits. See where we can achieve targets in the framework of the Nitrates Directive. Look where the smell problem is the most. Where all these come together, go there and clean it up. Yeah, we're gonna have to cut the cattle, but let's do it with a scalpel and not with a machete. And the resistance to this is great and I understand that resistance, but I say honestly: I have little to offer against it. The fact that we now have to take tough decisions that should have been taken 20 years ago is not the fault of farmers, but that does not mean that those decisions should not be taken. Even without a clean-up, the future of some livestock farms is simply very limited. I would like to put the following to the Minister. If you are now a peak loader near a Natura 2000 site, even if you are just going to disappear, is it absolutely unthinkable that you will grow in the future with this nitrogen statement? Can the Minister respond to that? In this system we've built up, can't grow in the long run is just a death sentence for many of those companies, right? Two weeks ago, the Minister said that there were no taboos in dealing with nitrogen, but last week suddenly forced sales and expropriation of livestock farms proved unnegotiable. What exactly happened over the past week, I'd like to ask. When did no taboos suddenly become a few taboos? Mr. Chairman. The SP has tabled an amendment to invest 200 million in the restoration and extension of Natura 2000 sites. This is only a first step in the nitrogen crisis, and it will not prevent us from taking tough measures to reduce nitrogen emissions, but it is at least a start. Moreover, when it comes to nature, there is no reason to wait months for area processes. We know which natural areas are overloaded. Restoration plans are in place, as far as they have not yet been implemented. There are even plans for enlargement in the provinces. The only thing missing is budget and political will. So let's start today. Mr. Chairman. We can also start planting trees throughout the Netherlands today. Mrs Bromet already referred to our joint initiative proposal for a national tree plan. I believe in that with great passion. This is potentially a climate measure that gives people real enthusiasm. I mean, there's hardly anyone who's going to sue if there's a tree planted anywhere near his house. That is why we should go much further in this area than the Climate Agreement now states. There is a huge profit to be made, both in terms of CO and in terms of acceptance. If you want to know how many people care about trees, you just have to look at the consequences of cutting down somewhere. The protests are then enormous, and we, as Chambers, at least, I will not be the only one to receive hundreds of e-mails. We are also helping our biodiversity potential. Production forest, for example, can be used for sustainable construction. We want 17 million trees, for starters. Where would they go? Everywhere. They have to come into our villages and cities. That was referred to by other parties not only because trees are pleasant, but also because they are cooling in these times of climate change. They must pass our motorways, for which there is an excellent plan at Rijkswaterstaat. They need to get on and off agricultural land when it comes to a forestry scheme. And at the moment they have to come around our natural areas, because they can also contribute to the problem of nitrogen. And this, Mr President, may be a good time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	I thought that's what I was talking about, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	It's a suggestion, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	Oh, okay! Mr. Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr President, keep it in hand, because if you leave it to those agricultural spokesmen: dot, dot, dot. I have the following question for Mr Futselaar. I heard GroenLinks earlier talking about that tree plan. That costs hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land, if I understand correctly. How are the SP and GroenLinks going to handle this with agriculture? Because hundreds of thousands of hectares also means that agriculture is practically driven out of the Netherlands by these two parties. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	If it were only agricultural land, Mr Geurts would still be wrong, because Dutch agriculture is still more than a hundred thousand hectares. But this has to happen in many places at the same time. Mrs Bromet has already said something about it, but we would also like a forest scheme to use agricultural land in farmers' hands to create more trees. At Rijkswaterstaat there is a plan ready to build wide strips of forests along roads. That's been investigated. Part of it is land owned by the government. But part of that land is owned by farmers, for example, so you'll have to buy it out. A part can be done in cities and residential areas on municipal land. Then there's the cost. If you look at the total cost of all the measures that we have yet to take under the Climate Agreement, then that potential is so great that if we plant trees of 0.4 megatons, for example, that is what I think is stated in the Climate Agreement, which is potentially 4 megatons, we can also save a lot of money. So, potentially, it pays itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	It can't be and-and: if it's not farmland, then it's just natural land. This means that the SP and the GroenLinks Group want to intensify nature in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	I can answer that last point with a yes: yes, we want to intensify nature in the Netherlands. That's beautifully summarized by the CDA. Media, take over most of all, I'd say! Mr. Chairman. If there is anything that the agricultural spokesmen in this Chamber agree on, it is that we talk about NVWA more often than we like. We're gonna do that again next week. The NVWA is under attack. And without wanting to do the hard work that the men and women of NVWA do in practice, that seems to be right. The NVWA is undermanned and overmanaged, and this is evident over and over again in the event of incidents, from ICT dramas to failing supervision at slaughterhouses to, for example, the lack of enforcement in the case of fraud involving engines on fishing boats. It just keeps happening. It is an organization that has many different tasks with a hugely limited capacity to carry out those tasks. Moreover, we see a waterbed effect: if there is a fuss about something, then they put in and then you see the supervision disappear elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. Next week, we'll talk about the 2Solve report on the abattoirs. There was one sentence in there that I would like to read anyway, because it almost woke me up. That is the following sentence: "The fact that a number of supervisory veterinarians do not maintain or do not maintain enough is due inter alia to the fact that they were appointed to NVWA at a time when maintaining was less priority." A period where maintaining had less priority? We are talking here about the probably largest enforcement organisation in the Netherlands, after the police. It's not acceptable for things like this to happen, is it? We are talking here about the organisation responsible for the safety of our food, for the safety of boilers, for the safety of trampolines; it is the organisation that is responsible for ensuring animal welfare and that pays attention to environmental standards. We believe that something must be done about this. I would like to propose something for that, but perhaps it is good if Mr Graus asks a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	I would suggest that you conclude your speech, because I believe you have ten seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think I can make it 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	I don't need that much time in the second term, because there will be no rain of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	You can finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	Okay, Mr. Chairman. When I speak of NVWA, it is my custom to ask the Minister, formerly the Secretary of State, if the NVWA has enough capacity to do its job. I am not going to do that now, because as far as I am concerned, the answer is simply no; we can draw that conclusion. I would like to propose the following. Let us ask an external organisation, for example the Safety Research Council, to conduct a wide-ranging investigation into all the incidents that have occurred in recent years and the reports that have appeared about the NVWA, so that it can give an opinion on what needs to be done with the NVWA in order to ensure that it can really carry out its safety task properly. That can be done and will, I expect, lead to, for example, an opinion for additional capacity. I would like to ask the Minister what she sees in this. I would like to end by saying that we have to make tough decisions and that the SP does not hesitate to do so. We must act quickly now, on the basis of the facts. The time for us to close our eyes to problems in the sector is really over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	I had to ask Mr. Geurts if you needed a KITKAT. Oh, Mr. Geurts says he didn't say that. Then I misunderstood. I have one short question. There will be two major general discussions on the NVWA and a plenary debate. I also brought up the subject of the vet who recently worked on the ground. A vet in function, who went to check, was intimidated by a slaughterhouse owner. She was working on the ground and had a head wound. She sits at home and never comes back to work. We have been arguing for minimum penalties since we were born since 2006. Such a person must at least be sentenced to prison and, in this case, a professional ban. I'm talking about the slaughterhouse owner who did that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	Violence against people is in any case unacceptable and violence against people acting on behalf of the government is often even more severe. You can see that in the police and the fire department, for example. I say honestly that I find it difficult to deal specifically with this, because at some point it's just the D.A.'s office. It's supposed to judge what kind of punishment someone should get. Mr Graus also spoke of a professional ban. We are in favour of making more possible in the Netherlands when it comes to a professional ban on people dealing with animals, such as people in slaughterhouses, farmers, livestock farmers, whatever kind of group. If you misbehave, clearly misbehave, you should be able to easily get a life-long professional ban, not just a restraining ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	The Minister may still make promises, but if necessary, I will table a motion. Then Mr. Futselaar can co-sign my motion in this. But here's the thing: shouldn't we decide as a chamber? We're gonna go over whether there's gonna be a minimum sentence or not. That's what we Members of Parliament are about. That's when the judge decides how long, okay? But there's been a serious assault on a vet. That dear lady, that dear lady, who did not let herself be intimidated, is now sick at home and never comes back to work. Once again, through the President, do you think that such a person should have at least a prison sentence and a professional ban? Do you agree with the prohibition of employment, but do you not agree that such a person should be sent to prison instead of a 50-hour community service?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	You just asked the same question, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	Yeah, but I didn't get a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	Perhaps Mr Graus will not be satisfied with it, but I think that politics should be extremely reluctant to make statements on individual cases involving the prosecutor and the judge. So I do not go into the question of what I think would be a correct punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	No, Mr. Graus. You made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	But this is very important, because that is what we have been fighting for since 2006. It's not about this case right now. I'm talking about the future. We're about the structure, we're co-legislator. We are auditors and co-legislators. You have the highest office in the Netherlands and you can find something or say something about this. And that's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	Then I come to the same area as why I briefly asked Mr Geurts about his bill. We can find something like Chamber, but then you also have to incorporate it into a legislative proposal, into a concrete proposal. If there is a specific proposal, whether it is from Mr Geurts or from Mr Graus, we will be sympathetic to it. And if we disagree, we'll explain why we disagree. But giving an opinion in the Chamber is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. D66 stands not only for clean water, clean air and a robust nature, but also for a good farm income. That is why I want to talk about circular agriculture. But first, let's get back to base. Why do we want to do that? First of all, it is because of nature in the Netherlands. There is only 15% left of the number of plants and animals we originally had in the Netherlands. Secondly, we are doing so precisely because of the farmer's income. A lot of farmers are on the verge of water. But we do so mainly because of the efficiency that, contrary to what Mrs Lodder says, is not at all so high. Yes, we are very efficient per unit of product. All we need is a lot of raw materials... feed... to get the animals to make their own food. Let me give you an example. If you give soy, you give ten soya beans to a pig or chicken, and eventually protein comes out about the amount of three soya beans. So there's a loss in it. And that's actually a loss for Earth. So what's smarter than just giving waste streams to animals? Insects for chickens, grass for cows and residual streams for pigs. Pigs are cleaners. They're very useful for that. That is why we are in favour of circular agriculture: to increase the efficiency of Dutch agriculture, which is rightly praised as such, without compromising the earth. And what movements are these when it comes to circular agriculture? First of all, I mentioned it: feed. It has to go slowly to food that no longer competes with our own food. Secondly, I call manure. Now, neatly put, the thick and the thin fraction of pee and poop are coming together in a dungeon with huge emissions of ammonia from methane. That's bad for nature and bad for the climate. We need to get rid of that. Then the bottom. Now we keep the soil and our crops alive with a lot of chemistry, fertilizer and lots of pesticides. We're doing a hell of a job. But also there: nature can be very kind to us; let's use that soil biology to have healthy and robust crops. Finally, the last movement we need for circular agriculture is animal welfare. Animals just have to have it right. This makes circular agriculture good for the farmer and good for the earth. The trick is to make more money with less cattle. With lower costs for animal feed, lower costs for pesticides and lower costs for fertilizer, you support the farmer's income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	I am almost inclined to nominate Mr De Groot as a lecturer in circular agriculture. Mr De Groot is a firm supporter of this. I have always been taught: to be right is not to be right. How does Mr De Groot intend to be right, even if there is to be cooperation from the sector and also in the light of the fact that the sector has regarded Mr De Groot's statement to say goodbye to 50% of livestock farming in the Netherlands as a knife in the back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	A good conversation also starts with facing the situation as it is now. That's why I started it. Nature in the Netherlands is just not doing well. This means that you share with each other what the cabinet has written down in the vision paper, namely that the current system is no longer sustainable. That is a painful message, but it precedes the real movement towards change as I have outlined it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	There is now something that is given in a way that is done with geese in France. Gavage is called, a form of compulsive nutrition. Wouldn't it be much better if you and nature and environmental organisations, agricultural organisations and other stakeholders tried to set a common course?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	The story of D66 is a story of choice. Four out of ten farmers want to stop. That means that you have to help in a good, social way. A lot of farmers are on the verge of water. They don't want to go any further. Make sure you take them in a good way to a life after farming, so retire and so on. Other farmers want to go through. Also make sure that they can get on with circular farming in a good way. That's the story of D66. That's just the story where you can go on, on one road you're gonna stop or the other way you're gonna go on, but in a good way. That's how you offer farmers perspective. There is actually no intermediate route, so say: we are going on for twenty or thirty years, which we know has considerable disadvantages for our nature and our environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	I have two questions about D66's perspective on animal welfare. We know that the gigastal in Grubbenvorst, with 35,000 pigs, is a kind of Remkesproof. In the Minister's circular note, there is no concrete reference to what we are going to do for animal welfare. When D66 says "animal welfare is important," I'm curious how D66 sees it and what proposals she's going to make. The second question is this. If circular agriculture is to be a success, it is important that we do not allow products produced below our standards to enter the border. So what does Mr De Groot think of the Mercosur Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	That's two questions. Such a large stable is not desirable if you look from the animal. Animal welfare is really a crucial part of the vision. The Minister writes it himself. It's just that I don't see much effect. We have tabled a motion on this earlier. It is therefore extremely important that we really think about that position of the animal. That's why I said, and D66 also says: an animal must just have a good life. It needs to be worked out exactly how you're going to do that. So yes, such a stable that are also dilemmas, I honestly admit that maybe environmentally fine, but you work with living animals, intelligent animals, who get bored in that kind of stables, and you just shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	Fine. Then I look forward to the proposals, because so far D66 said: the recycling note is good enough. I believe that the cabinet should honour the promises already made by Verburg that animals can show their natural behavior by 2022 at the latest. I hope D66 agrees with us. My second question was, just a moment ago, about Mercosur. If you want to make circular agriculture successful, I do not think you can just allow cheap beef from Brazil at the border. So what does Mr De Groot think of that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	D66 is a party in favour of free trade. Free trade also brings benefits. When it comes to CETA, you are talking about a country that also has high growth, a civilised country with high standards in many areas. So that's what you need to talk about, including sustainability. Mercosur also gives you the opportunity to talk to that country about climate, for example. You wouldn't have that without a trade agreement like that. For example, they stayed on board at Paris. I find that rather difficult, I have to be honest. And that's why I'm going to be there in the future on "supermarkets" also have a major role to play in making circular agriculture a success. For it is not possible, apart from a trade agreement, that supermarkets, on the one hand, confess with their mouths that they find circular agriculture fantastic and have written an open letter to the Minister, and on the other hand, they put such cheap pieces of meat at the bottom of the box. There is a responsibility of the supermarkets, just as separate from trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr Futselaar... no, very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	Yeah, just a little bit longer. As far as Mercosur is concerned, the Foreign Trade Minister has just confirmed, in response to parliamentary questions, that these products do not meet European standards and that you cannot enforce them. So we already know it's below our standards. Is that another reason for Mr De Groot to say now that we really should not do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	We're going to have another debate on that. That is what my colleague Bouali is doing. But you can be assured that we are looking at it extremely critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	I always like to listen to Mr De Groot's reflections on circular agriculture. I'm pretty much in favour of it, too. What I would now like to ask Mr de Groot is whether, as far as he is concerned, this agricultural budget is actually the right way of achieving circular agriculture as he sees it. Does this budget satisfy, simply, what Mr De Groot wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'm gonna take it a little wider. In the follow-up to my speech, I will say that we are not there with a good story. Policy making is more than the frequent interpretation of a desired situation. There must therefore be a more direct relationship with the budget. There must be a direct relationship with clarity for farmers: what is circular farming? As far as D66 is concerned, this includes a law. Not to create new rules, I say explicitly, but at the same time to provide clarity with rules and also to be able to break them down. I do not yet see sufficient action to really move this cabinet period towards circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	That's clear. We will wait for the law, but we are talking about the budget now. So if we want to make changes to the budget, we have to announce it now and vote on it next week or later. What is Mr De Groot going to do in this area, then, is my next question, or should I wait for the rest of his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	Of course, additional funds were announced last week, also for the warm investment in agriculture. So we're gonna take new steps. They are also necessary with regard to D66. This budget is a step in the right direction. We're going to agree to that, too. But there will still have to be the necessary steps to provide clarity to farmers about what it is now. Those aren't necessarily things that cost money right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	I would like to ask another question about circular agriculture in relation to trade agreements. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is strongly in favour of circular agriculture. So is my group. Now I find myself experiencing a dilemma in ourselves when it comes to trade agreements, because we believe that this can be at odds with each other. However, I hear the D66 Group, Mr De Groot, saying: I want to get the front door straight. The supermarkets must ensure that there are as many products as possible from their own region on the shelf. They should contribute to circular agriculture. But he's going to open the back door wide for products from faraway countries. My question is: is there really no tension for the D66 Group, as my group feels? How do you handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	That's definitely a tension field. You're talking about "driving wide," but that's not the right term. We have a trade surplus with Canada, for example. So Dutch agriculture, which you often represent, has every interest in trade. So we need to take a nuanced look at that. It's also a way to talk to each other about standards. But, yes, supermarkets really have a separate responsibility in this. They tend to make good decorations with one beautiful meadow product or a nice cheese, such as "look at us responsibly" while at the bottom of the shelf lies the meat, the kilo-blaster, or the cheapest milk. We need to change that. I will in a moment call for a kind of private quality system for supermarkets, call it a green dot, to ensure that they are not only in name sustainable, but also in reality have a sustainable policy and participate in the transition to circular agriculture. At the moment, there is only one supermarket that meets that requirement, and that is the Lidl.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	I have heard a whole speech from Mr De Groot. He started with: yes, that is a dilemma for us too. But then he didn't go into what exactly is a dilemma for him. If it is a dilemma for the D66 Group, what is your commitment to the discussion you are going to have with your own minister on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	Once again, that conversation is being held by the spokesperson in this area, and that is Achraf Bouali. From this point of view, he will look critically at the whole, but also at what it means for the Netherlands. The Netherlands has an open economy and it is also to be commended that at this time, when large countries such as the United States are increasingly closing their borders, we are still making trade agreements in this world, which is under pressure. That is a good way of working together in peace, and that will appeal to the Christian Union as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	I'm coming to the transition to circular agriculture. We've talked about it before and the minister has a strong tendency to focus and focus on the primary business. The Maij Committee also did so this week. It is then about creating the conditions to take steps for farmers. It's about money. The Minister has taken a good step towards European agricultural policy by putting that European agricultural money behind these circular farmers. It's also about knowledge. The Minister comes up with proposals for independent advice for farmers. That's great! In the area of rules and chains, the D66 group does not yet see sufficient action. That is why two things must be done. Firstly, we see a kind of recycling law before us and secondly, a private quality system. That recycling law is for the primary sector. The Maij committee came up with a kind of dashboard, but that is very similar to what we exchanged here last year. At that time, the Chamber also adopted a motion asking for a circular efficiency indicator at company level. That was a year ago! Now a committee comes up with such a report that it's a little watered down. As far as I am concerned, it is a lost year, because what has happened to that motion that this committee has accepted in its entirety and unanimously? That law will also have to include experimental space, because that is very important. Furthermore, that law will have to clarify what we want with the feed. We have to switch to real recycling within a period of ten years. The chicken sector has already said this and then make sure that you regulate it by law or declare it universally binding, so that everyone is actually involved. This also applies to pigs. The dung. I told you, pee and poop come together, and that cranium emits huge emissions from stables. Eventually, you have to make sure you don't have that anymore. The Minister should therefore be clear and indicate when a residue ban will be imposed. Then all the innovations will come to these new stables and their recognition will be followed very quickly. It's market maturity, but there's got to be a clear signal from the government. The bottom. It is still often practice for maize to be grown on sandy soil. Maize is not recycled feed and those sandy soils are run-off sensitive. It is a bad combination and therefore: Minister, please clarify that this is not the intention. Mr. Chairman. A suggestion. If an entrepreneur is going to invest in a stable for circular agriculture, it would be nice if he doesn't have to buy rights. He does not need animal rights because he has no emissions. That saves a lot of investment. You give that farmer a boost and that way he doesn't have to fill himself with strange money from the bank. Mr President, I see a whole series of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	Well, I think this might be a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	I could just grab a cup of coffee, 'cause you guys can figure out who's interrupting when. Mr. Funtselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	I would like to have a little more clarity about this circular law, because I have not yet fully understood what to imagine. Are we talking about limiting what can be landed and what can be disposed of from manure on a farm? Is that what I'm supposed to imagine, because it's a little less tangible for me now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	The Maij Committee calls for clarity and, above all, for that primary company. Last year, the Chamber said, "Come up with an indicator that will allow a farmer to look at his own business." How efficient am I from a circular perspective? So I'm looking for a way to give that clarity. There are two ways of doing that, and I would like to leave that to the Minister. It can, for example, be fed. That is where the chicken sector itself said: we want to be at 100% recycling by 2030. That's really commendable. In practice, it is easy to make agreements as a representative of the chicken sector, but much more difficult to follow. For example, the Minister could make these agreements generally binding, so that all chicken farmers would also participate. So it doesn't have to be a law in the literal sense, but it differs from one subject to another. As long as there is clarity in the area of feed, manure and soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr De Groot is good at test balloons, but I'm going to give him a service announcement. I do not accept that there will be a ban on fertilizers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	I think Mr Geurts's clarity is clear. Mr De Groot referred to the report of the Task Force on Earning Power Circulation Agriculture. I went into that in my speech and I concluded that this task force is very far from practical. Now, last week, Mr De Groot launched a huge test balloon, and we are less than a week away or Mr De Groot is in favour of all kinds of bans. In what way does Mr De Groot think he can get farmers and gardeners in a different direction, a direction that we too want, in which there is better use of residues, in which raw materials are handled carefully if I hear him only about prohibitions? In what way does he expect to bring the farmers along?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	There was no question of a test balloon, because that is the consequence of government policy. We can discuss this again, but I would advise you to read this Minister's note. It is clear: the current system is no longer sustainable and we are eventually going to a system with fewer animals; there is no doubt about that. I would like to say to Mr Geurts that there is another way of dealing with it. It doesn't necessarily have to be a ban. If we can seduce farmers, that is much better, I will also say to Mrs Lodders. But we have to realise together that if we do not achieve this innovation in agriculture and those stables simply continue to emit as much nitrogen, ammonia and methane as they do now, then you have to reduce that agriculture far more than you can imagine now. If you think about it, instead of putting the heels in the sand, we'll get somewhere. It doesn't have to be banned, as long as we get rid of it. Then we can give these farmers a future again. You're not helping the farmers like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	Now my nugget breaks. If we are talking about bans, it is certainly Mr De Groot who I hear here one time after another say the word 'bans'. Seducing begins with changing our regulations so that all those farmers and gardeners can indeed make green fertilizer from the manure from the stables. That is still not settled, I say in the direction of Mr De Groot. Let's start with that! What are all those farmers and gardeners who listen at home and hear you leave another test balloon here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	That D66 is serious about taking steps with the sector that provide clarity. It is often said from the point of view of the sector: give us clarity, if necessary in the form of a ban, then at least we know where we stand. It may, once again, be different, but we must stand up for a choice not only to express a beautiful vision, but also to ensure that clarity. You can say whatever you want, but often people find... Look, it's about the innovations that come from back here. You know, and you are always right to be very critical of that whole system of recognising innovations that we have now. You're always very critical about that. When it comes to clarity: then and then we are not going to continue with it, it is very good for the farmers, because it doesn't stink like that anymore. And then there's all these innovations that you've praised for innovations that haven't been around for 30 years, they're gonna come. Then you help each other take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	I'm rounding up. I thought I was speaking here with Mr De Groot, Mr De Groot, who has a great deal of experience in the sector. He's worked in the sector for years. I really thought Mr De Groot would bring a little more practical experience. How many innovations are there outside this house that can't get through because the legislation blocks it? If we find each other at that point, we can see if we can tempt farmers to go along with us to a different form of agriculture using residuals, fertilisers and dealing with raw materials in a careful way. It starts with seducing farmers, and Mr De Groot does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	I like this. We'll really find each other here, too. All the rules that have been drawn up so far are about a partial aspect on a farm, so that the farmers no longer see the forest through the trees. Some of the rules contradict each other. D66 wants to break those rules, but that can only be done if you are very clear about what is and is not allowed. That is indeed sometimes painful, but that is decided in the consequence of the vision we have set out together. Again, there's definitely talk about the way we're gonna do it, but D66's gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	While we're at the interruptions, I thought I'd go too. I am very curious whether Mr De Groot is aware of what he has caused by his firm statements over the last few weeks and also now by the farmers at the table. I'm very curious about that, but that's not my question. If Mr De Groot is so of the tough statements, I have a proposal for financing innovation in the near future. When he joins, he also makes a very tough statement. Shall we raise the prices of airline tickets? This is also an activity that emits a lot. The 250 to 300 million that this brings in, we put into innovation in agriculture. I'm very curious if we can find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	I think it is a good question, but I would like to comment on the comment. I've noticed that message has arrived hard. It's an uncomfortable truth and a taboo. I started talking to farmers. In that conversation, it was very clear that something like this is coming out loud. In the same conversation, one of the farmers said: it makes sense, we have to go to fewer cattle, we have to halve the livestock. It was funny that they discussed that with each other. That's exactly what needs to be done. The question is, how are we gonna do it? You also have a very creative idea. I can't judge that right now, but I think it's a nice idea. D66 has consistently argued in this cabinet for the firmer pricing of flies and with success. We're going a long way to see you. I also know that my colleague in the financial sector has a great deal of difficulty if we start spending that money on something right away. You can be sure that we will find each other in the firmer pricing of flies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	If I file that motion tomorrow, you'll sign with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	No, because you heard the second part of my answer very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	I'm from the country. I'm from North Groningen. I would like to ask the following question. Is Mr De Groot aware that if he writes this type of ideas out in an attic by candlelight and now prescribes them to the agricultural sector, in rural areas there is a feeling that a study room scholar is going to prescribe how to run their business, when they have been doing so for decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	Clear. That was also Mr Stoffer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	I don't see that qualification. I've been in the agricultural circuit for some time. I see how, despite, for example, the recognition of the problems of manure in the 1970s and the Braks manure law of 1984, we have still not been able to solve the problems of intensive livestock farming. It's been a long time. At some point, therefore, a message that indeed arrives harder, I am very aware of that, but it has to be delivered. We've been at it too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	I would like to warn Mr De Groot of a European trend that we are seeing. In France, in England and also increasingly in the Netherlands, we see that the difference between rural and urban life styles is creating more and more tensions in society. I think we should not increase these tensions, but build a bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	I would like to say something about that, because you are introducing something that is not at all about this. This is precisely about how we are going to live in this country, how we are going to produce food in this country in a way that does not undermine nature, in a way where farmers have a structurally good income and where not one in three farmers is consistently or annually below the minimum limit. That's what this is about. You can suggest anything, but this conversation is necessary to see in this country how we are going to produce food and save nature, clean air and clean water for all the people in this country, not just for the city.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	Well, there's Mrs. Lodders again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A compliment to Mr Moorlag, because I really like his qualification. He talked about "student room theory" by Mr. De Groot, with his experience as director of a dairy organization. I step forward here because Mr De Groot indicates that nothing has actually happened for years, almost decades. I do not accept this qualification in the direction of our farmers. I said in my contribution that nitrogen has been reduced by 64% since the 1990s. I hope that Mr De Groot will take that percentage and, when he is back in his place, he will think about the message he has brought to these farmers again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	I will not deny that there has been a significant reduction in nitrogen from 1990 to roughly 2013, 2014. Mrs Lodders is quite right about that. And the emissions of climate gases have also been reduced. Super good! Alone, it's been up since then. The sector would reduce 10 kilotons. That was part of the PAS. It has only increased since 2013, 2014. It even increased in 2017 and 2018 in such a way that we went beyond the limit set by Europe. So, Mrs Lodders, you also live in the rule of law here, and you also have to abide by the law. And what have you done in the years that you have been here to deal with these problems in agriculture, to provide real structural solutions for farmers instead of just repairing, repairing and repairing them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	Those examples are there. How many times have I advocated the deletion or modification of legislation in such a way that farmers can be given more room for innovation? So far, I have not been able to do so. But I'm gonna keep fighting for it. I keep fighting for all those farmers who work seven days a week, 24 hours a day to produce quality and affordable food for us. And I'll be damned if I'm gonna let those peasants go and put them in a corner. I'm not in on that! And I would really ask Mr De Groot to have a little understanding of this sector. Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm really angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	I have a warm heart for that sector, but sometimes it goes with you naming what we need to do. I'd like to have that conversation with Mrs. Lodders. This includes looking back on the direct actions from the VVD in the last ten years. I think there's some self-reflection there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	I have been watching this debate between two coalition partners for some time now, and I am actually wondering the following. Does Mr De Groot feel that his idea of circular agriculture is the same as that of the VVD? It looks like two world views are incredibly colliding here, while it's about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	It's kind of weird to ask me that. However, I do see a justified rise in this debate, and I believe that this is also true for the interests of today's farmers' families, who often do not have it easy. I see this in the contributions of my fellow Members. But I also hear Mrs Lodder saying that we should move on to other uses of feed and that we should use manure differently. So I do see attempts to get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	I see you see that. Only I see a very angry Mrs Lodders, so I do not see that it is very mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think Mrs Lodder's been thinking about the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	I, too, see that emotions are on the rise. But Mr De Groot is actually telling things the way they are today. When he calls on the VVD to put his own hands into his own bosom, I remember that in 2007 this Chamber received figures that now bring out D66: this number of animals is unsustainable and it is inevitable that the number of animals will have to shrink by 50%. D66 was then for that proposal, later made some crazy other choices, with the PAS and phosphate. But would Mr De Groot just acknowledge here that he should have held on to the line of that time, which the Labour Party was against, and the VVD, and the CDA? But what Mr De Groot is saying now, and what he is criticized for, was fully figures-based in 2007 and therefore inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	When there comes a compliment from the Party for Animals I always listen very carefully. Because you leave one aspect of what you mean by fewer animals unmentioned, namely that you are always talking about a cold clean-up. I'm not gonna go along with that. D66 isn't gonna go along with that. The point is that those farmers who want to stop will be helped in a good way. So all the talk about fewer animals is actually free when you don't pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	Then we can clear up this misunderstanding immediately: the Party for Animals has never said that. I remember, for example, the end of mink breeding. Then the Party submitted an amendment for the Animals to do it with a bag of money so that they could stop earlier. That's what D66 was against. You can, then you opt for a longer transition period. But the Animal Party has never supported a cold clean-up, and we are not going to do that now. So good that that misunderstanding is out of the way. With what I wanted to help Mr De Groot is that, if there is so much criticism coming from now the coalition parties, but then also the Labour Party, who then also looked away from that numerical argument that you have to realize at least half the number of animals in the Netherlands to get your...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	...to achieve environmental goals, he might say: right, that have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u88	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u89	...we then supported and other parties didn't. In the meantime, we have made some mistakes, we have supported the PAS...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u90	The question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u91	... we've co-caused the phosphates drama, but we're not gonna do that anymore, those numbers are inevitable: shrink...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u92	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u93	...of the number of animals and anyone who contradicts that, should simply go into the numbers that are just on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u94	I have not limited the number of interruptions, because I assume that an interruption must be short. But if it's gonna be longer interruptions, we're gonna have a real problem. You may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u95	You're right, this was a long time. I'm not gonna do that anymore. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u96	Well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u97	I didn't hear a question. But the Animal Party is talking about a cold shrinkage and we are talking about a warm shrinkage and warm investment in the sector. I will continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u98	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u99	I have just indicated at what legal level the government should clarify what circular agriculture is, so that innovations can follow and, I say to Mrs Lodders, we can also break down existing tight regulations. On the other hand, there must be a private quality system for the other chain parties. Then I'm talking about the processing industry. It should focus on quality rather than quantity. Because you see very strongly that farmers themselves are not in contact with the market, all through a processor, a milk cooperative. That model is beautiful, of course, because then the farmers are the boss. Only, that's very much focused on quantity. For example, there are cooperatives that have a very nice strategy of added value for 70% of that amount. But because it is so supply-driven, they have to sell 30% at a loss, making that average payout price to farmers so low that they can all only respond with intensification and cost strategies. We need to get rid of that, and that is why the talk in these cooperatives will have to take place in order to match the amount of milk, meat or otherwise in this case to that strategy with which you can really make good money for the farmers. Then the banks. A number of things were said about this last week. This is a sympathetic idea, but banks should only invest in circular agriculture. There, too, it is necessary to clarify what that is. 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna keep beating each other up with vague sentences. Consumers tend to buy the cheapest piece of meat, but in the meantime they fill in surveys that they are for animal welfare and they vote for it. It's been a while, but there's once been a D66 proposal that means that every pack of meat has to have a QR code that allows you to scan for a camera in that stall, so you can see for yourself as a consumer how animals you have on your plate. Then you can decide for yourself whether you like it or not. As I said, there should be a quality system for supermarkets. Now the CEO, the boss, says "I'm totally green and I've got a niche for this and a niche for that" while the buyer puts the farmer on the nose and it's just about the lowest price. Something's going wrong. Such a quality system would be nice to really bring supermarkets into their policy to become completely green and thus contribute to circular agriculture. I also see in the Maij Committee and in the open letter from the supermarkets that everyone tells what the other should do. For this minister, it is the art of directing together. We're going from an uncertain no strings attached, which is what it is now, to clarity, courage and decisiveness. Without this clarity, the Minister's ministry failed with regard to D66. Mr. Chairman. I come to nature. D66 is concerned about the progress of the Dutch Nature Network. We have an international obligation to designate 17% of the area of the Netherlands as Natura 2000. We're at 13%. In addition, we are obliged to describe the good state of conservation, but also to talk to the provinces about the question of what that is and to send it. That's what we're worried about. We also have serious concerns about the coral in the Caribbean. That's gonna get worse soon. I would like the Minister's statement to prevent its decline from becoming irreversible in its period. What would be more beautiful than that? In this context, I also have a question about the amount of €600,000 in the budget. Is that structural for the coral in the Caribbean, or is that occasional? Mr President, I will conclude. The best nature policy is a good agricultural policy. Last week we saw an impressive demonstration. But the flowers and the bees don't go to The Hague. They don't block the roads. They die in silence. In Europe, Dutch nature is the worst in the world. That is why D66 would like the following statement by this Minister of Nature, similar to her statement on the Malieveld: as long as I am a minister, nature in the Netherlands will not deteriorate further. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you. Mr. Futselaar, a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u101	A quick question. Mr De Groot said quite a few words at the end. In fact, he said that without the clarity I want, the Minister's ministry was not successful. If you make such a tough statement, it seems to me that at some point that should also have consequences for the position of D66 in the coalition if the proposals that Mr De Groot wants to see are not forthcoming in the coming year. That can't be a general statement, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u102	At the end of each cabinet period you look at the question: how did we do it; did we not just write things down, make a nice story and have very nice, cozy regional meetings, but did something actually happen? That's what D66 will take care of this minister. It is also our job here in the Chamber to look not only at fine words, but above all at fine deeds. And then, in this case, it's about clarity. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u103	But I do not ask Mr De Groot to look back in a year and a half and say that we did or did not do well. Mr De Groot is here now. If he thinks things should be done now, then he must now make sure that they are set in motion. If they are not set in motion, then there should be consequences. Otherwise, Mr De Groot should not speak such harsh words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u104	I have made the necessary suggestions to initiate actions. I've always done that, and I'll keep doing that. Some of them are fine, as I have also mentioned in my contribution. In another part we will remain critical as D66. The bar's high. This is a minister who can do a lot and who has already achieved a lot, so we have high expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We saw an impressive protest last week, a protest that was perfectly legitimate. Farmers stood up for their interests. They're worried about their survival. Mr. Chairman. A lot of farmers didn't exist well. We've seen that in the income figures. The farmers who do have a good life are constantly concerned about legislation and regulation and about another crisis that is flareing up again, such as the nitrogen crisis. The importance that is being pursued is highly legitimate. Mr. Chairman. A few days before, we also saw a demonstration of a lot of young people. They are also concerned about their security of existence. They are concerned whether there will still be sufficient natural resources and sufficient natural capital in the future to have a viable world. Those protesters also stood up for a perfectly legitimate interest. What I am concerned about a moment ago is how we are going to bring together that one section and that other section, which are going to bring together different worlds of experience. You can see that society is just polarizing hard. You can see it happening here in the Chamber. On the one hand there is the PVV, which simply denies that we have a problem with our nature and says: we have the most beautiful nature we can imagine; move all nature protection legislation aside. You can also see CDA and VVD, who say a bit: we must be very proud of our peasantry. We should be proud of that, too. I'm also proud of those entrepreneurs, but I'm not proud of the agricultural system as we have in the Netherlands because this simply does too much predatory work on our soil, but also on our nature and on our living environment. There should be a little more eye for that. Mr. Chairman. I do not think that Mr De Groot's approach is the right one either. Although you may be right in substance, that doesn't mean you're right. That's actually what I want to say to those protesters. Because the protesters are very locked up in their own right. RIVM figures are being called into question. I see there's a demonstration at the RIVM. I don't think that's right. Those are just scientists conducting investigations on behalf of this Chamber and the government. We are the ones to whom the protest must be addressed. Mr. Chairman. I'm also worried about where these actions are going to lead. For years, I've been a union manager. I myself led actions, actions that were incredibly emotional, but I always knew that those actions had to lead to something, namely that you end up at a table and that you're going to make a deal there, an agreement. After all, you know that you always come across each other as different parties, as different stakeholders in this small country. My question to the Minister is how she will organise it. Two years ago, I proposed a broad agreement on agriculture, food and nature, following the climate agreement. I'll make that proposal again. We can all think of it here, as Mr De Groot imagines, but it is other parties who have to take responsibility, which must be made owner. They have to stop fighting each other out of the shooter's pits and out of their own accord. They must stop pointing only at the other and tell them what to do. I am in favour of all those parties in the chain, such as nature and environmental organisations and fellow governments, being brought to the table in the same way as under the Climate Agreement. We need to create ownership. The Climate Agreement is not perfect, but what has happened is that parties who have been opposed to each other for years have sat down at the table. They came out of the shooter pits. We've seen Greenpeace sit at the table on one side and Shell and Esso on the other. They didn't do that as friends, but they did it as parties that stand up for their interests. The PvdA still has a lot of criticism of the Climate Agreement, because it is far from perfect and it needs to be brought much further. But to my taste, such a process needs to be set up here as well. Here, in the political domain, we are not going to solve it. The debate just now was a model of that. It is the parties themselves that we must give responsibility and space for that. So, in summary, is the Minister prepared to take that step and explore with all those different parties whether they are prepared to go into such a process? Mr. Chairman. Then the second point of the PvdA. Much is going to happen in the rural area, such as the approach to peat meadows and the relocation of farms. In addition, we need to find space for a few million trees, and the water must have a place. That means a lot of ground mobility. I understand that two colleagues from the Minister, Mr Hoekstra and Mr Wiebes, have a plan to create a large investment fund. As far as the PvdA is concerned, part of that fund is used to set up a land bank, so that you can promote ground mobility. Neighbor's land only comes for sale once. It just works when you have a good ground pot, when all those different functions need to get a place in the country again. If you have a large ground pot, you have a trade to facilitate it. Land may hold its value even better than the euro. So my question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to examine whether there is room for a budget to set up a land bank, to speed up a number of processes and to free up the stuck economic development space as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. My final point is a small point. We talked last year about national parks. A good step forward has been taken. I would like to compliment the Minister for that. Budget has been released until 2022. As we should be proud of our agriculture, we should also be proud of our national parks. It is good that the national parks will receive funds until 2022, but national parks will not cease to exist in 2022. I do not really think that we should wait until 2022 to answer the question of whether we can give more structural funding to the national parks. I.V. is now on. That's good. But as far as I'm concerned, I'm not gonna let that drip dry. If we do think it should dry up, I think it should be known to the organisation at an early stage. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she is going to examine early whether this funding can be made more structural and whether more continuity can be offered to national parks. That's all I'm gonna say, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two words dominate the news of the last few weeks: nitrogen and climate. I walked with young people during a climate strike, which caused a traffic attack here in The Hague and overcrowded trains. I was there when there was a traffic infarct all over the country and farmers with their tractors went on their way to the Malieveld. What powerful signals. All too often, the solution to all these problems is put on the farm. My group finds that too easy. Combating climate change and protecting our nature are issues that concern our entire society and which are our responsibility. Last year, during the budget debate, I presented my own initiative "Connecting farmer-citizen" to the Minister and also to fellow chamber members. It is fantastic to see how much support farmers received last week for their action, but at the same time the gap between farmers and citizens and between urban and rural areas is greater than ever. Citizens have an opinion about their food, but they don't know how it is produced anymore. The connection between farmers, citizens and outsiders can help to better understand each other and work together towards a sustainable food system. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive response to my own initiative paper. There will be a real trade mission in our own country. I would like to see a lot more domestic products on the shelf of the supermarket and the supermarkets also benchmark each other on this. How are the talks the Minister has with the supermarkets? What concrete steps can we expect from the supermarkets themselves? In my opinion, the government can set a good example and include as many products as possible from its own country in the catering industry. Will the Minister take this step and extend it to provinces and municipalities? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union welcomes the Task Force Korte Keten, which supports farmers in organising their own sales channels and thus literally and figuratively narrows the distance between farmers and citizens. For example, farmers, organised or not in platforms, do not have to invent the wheel themselves. One of the biggest challenges lies in logistics. What can the Minister mean in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u109	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber talking all the time about a gap between farmer and citizen, but I have seen in the surveys that the citizen is very much in favour of the farmer. So there is not so much a gap between the farmer and the citizen, but rather a gap between politics and the farmer. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u110	I found it heartwarming to see how much support farmers received last week when they came to Malieveld massively. Indeed, I have not heard anyone in my area say: what a strange action; I don't understand anything about that. On the contrary, society has appreciated this very much. I'm happy about that. At the same time, I see the following. Let me make it very personal. My parents were both from the farm. I used to work there as a kid. But my daughter won't be on the farm anymore. In a limited number of generations, therefore, there has really been a distance to the farm, to the knowledge of how our food is produced. I see now that there is a very large group of citizens who do have an opinion on food production and say to the farmers 'we want animal welfare and environmental requirements, we want this and we want it', and at the same time have no idea what is going on in the farmyard. I think it's important to bridge that gap. That is why I tabled this own-initiative proposal last year. I also see opportunities, precisely because society seems to have a great deal of appreciation for our farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u111	I would just like to mention the fact that the gap between farmers and citizens is not so important right now. The protests do not focus on the citizens; the protests focus on politics. It is the policy of the last few years that has rightly angered the farmers. It'll make them impossible. It's the politics you have to point to. You must point to yourself and not to the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u113	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's what I'm gonna do. Mr. Chairman. Social service is an initiative of Christian Union and CDA that is embraced by the Cabinet. There is a lot of talk about young people working at health and welfare organisations and recently also at the Ministry of Defence. But why don't we let young people go into the farmland or go into the stables? I spoke to a young farmer, who took her fellow students from Rotterdam to the stable in a village on the Veluwe to teach them how to milk cows. A world opened up to these young people. Of course, it is not an obligation for farmers and for young people, but let us at least allow social service to be provided to farmers. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Today I would also like to praise the critical consumer. They've been wasting less food: almost a third less since 2010. Of course, that's good news. Are we looking at the success factors? My group would also like to see the waste in the supermarkets and on the farmyard reduced. It is impossible for good vegetables to be rejected because of aesthetic requirements. Last year my motion on the removal of aesthetic requirements in marketing standards was adopted. What happened to that? Does the Minister also have European supporters to put this on the map and on the agenda in Europe? Mr. Chairman. The dot on the horizon is circular agriculture. The Christian Union is very keen to make this change, along with the farmers. A system change has not been realised from today to tomorrow. It requires approximation of legislation and consumer behaviour, and it cannot do without a good income for the farmer. The bill on sustainability initiatives also makes it possible for farmers to work together more than now to be stronger with large purchasing organisations. That's good. Does this bill also offer room for cooperation in the chain? Mr President, I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u114	You're so involved!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u115	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber say the word 'circular farming'. I'd like to hear from her if she's in the D66 camp or the VVD camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'm in the camp of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u117	I am asking the question because as a viewer there was just a very big lack of clarity because of the clash between the VVD and D66 on the concept of circular agriculture and because you are also in the coalition. Do you ever talk to each other about exactly what that means?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u118	We have a wonderful vision Circle farming. The Minister has prepared it, and we have discussed it here in this Chamber. We have also discussed the development of this vision. I think we're going step by step to realize the circular vision. I see that one is perhaps a little more impatient than the other, but the circular vision is the dot on the horizon and that is where we go step by step with the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u119	We can be a bit laughing about it, but I think today the common concept of cycle that the coalition thought it had has fallen into furious elements. The coalition agreed: it is a black and white dog. For one part of the coalition it is now a completely white dog with a few small black dots on it and for the other part it is a completely black dog, with a few small white dots on it. Can't explain that to society, can it? So my question to Mrs Dik-Faber is whether the coalition's concept of circular agriculture is simply not clinically dead today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u120	No, definitely not. We've laid down the circular vision. We discussed it in the Chamber. I have tried in this Chamber that the circular vision was not only supported by the coalition parties, but was widely supported. I have also seen this in society: support from farmers' organisations and support from nature organisations. I think it is very important that we now take action together, together with nature organisations, together with the farmers and with broad support in this political arena.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u121	My criticism of the concept of circular agriculture was that it was far too vague. As soon as it becomes clearer, division in the coalition arises, because it is far too process-oriented. I note today that circular agriculture is now a circular agriculture for the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mrs. Dik-Faber, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u123	I leave that statement to Mr Moorlag. I want to start telling stories about a work visit I made to a pig farmer in the province of Overijssel. That was extremely interesting. The thick fraction and the mineral concentrates are processed in a compost tower, at the farm. They are processed into a dry fertilizer that can be used as a fertilizer substitute. The nitrogen is bound by the composting process, but unfortunately this product cannot be applied in the Netherlands. A missed opportunity. The use of fertilizers brings an additional stream of nitrogen into the cycle and its production costs a lot of natural gas. The Christian Union wants Dutch agriculture to be able to make much more efficient use of natural fertilisers released from the production of animal products as a high-quality fertilizer substitute. Until the end of this year, a study of mineral concentrate is ongoing. As far as my group is concerned, this has to be scaled up to the maximum. Is that what the Minister wants? Mr. Chairman. With the Brussels decisions on pulse fishing, fishermen have once again been very difficult. The most modern fleet in Europe, perhaps the most modern fleet in the world, is thrown back in the last century. It is good that the Minister has gone to the European Court of Justice to fight the ban on pulses, but we now also have the Brexit and there is a North Sea agreement that will certainly have an impact on fisheries. Now EUR 5 million has been earmarked for innovation in fisheries in the coalition agreement. What is the situation with regard to the allocation of these funds, how they are used and how the fisheries sector is involved? During our group days we took a walk with the ChristianUnion Group through the Speulderbos, also called the forest of dancing trees, together with a forest ranger of State Forests. The age of this forest, about 200 years, makes the Speulderbos particularly beautiful and impressive. Trees, forests provide clean air and help fight climate change. The Minister is coming up with a forest strategy and my group is very pleased with it. I also read about the plan of GroenLinks and the SP to plant a tree for every Dutchman. I still have to read that plan, but it sounds inspiring. The Christian Union considers it important that we, our generation, move forward for the future of our children. That is why my group proposes that a tree, a baby tree, be planted for every child born. I'd like a response from the Minister. With nature, God's creation, in our country things are not going well. For biodiversity all signals are red and according to the Health Council there is a blanket of nitrogen across our country. Fortunately, there is now a biodiversity plan and it is good that the cabinet has quickly responded to the report of the Remkes Committee. I welcome the government's proposed approach. We are going to help farmers if they want to stop farming or we are going to invest in circular agriculture and also innovation in agriculture. There will also be investments in nature recovery. We're reducing speed in those places where it has a positive effect on nitrogen emissions. But my group does not want us to just look at road traffic and agriculture in order to combat the excessive nitrogen emissions. Following the outcome of Remkes' second report in May 2020, measures for aviation and shipping are also on the table. For the balance sheet in our country, it is important that all sectors contribute to combating the problem of nitrogen, and that is certainly true in the case of aviation as far as the Christian Union is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u124	Can Mr. Von Martels intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u125	Sure. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u126	Okay. Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's supposed to be okay. For the sake of clarity, I would like to have a clear answer to the question whether it is about a baby tree or baby booming. That was not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u128	The latter, baby tree, is of course always very pleasing to the parents but today we really make a plea for a baby tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u129	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yeah, that's clear. Mr. Chairman. My group notes that there is a lot of unrest among farmers about the RIVM model that is being used when it comes to nitrogen deposition. Indeed, the RIVM model is not perfect and it is good that a better model is being worked on. I think that will be available at the beginning of 2020. It is important to measure more, which is ultimately more reliable than calculating. In order to be able to interpret data properly, transparency is also necessary about the model and the data used. How is RIVM going to provide transparency and what can the Minister mean in that? I notice that farmers are not only concerned about the RIVM model but that there are also a lot of questions about the future of their business. What exactly is going to happen? And I'm sure that goes for other entrepreneurs as well. Is the Minister prepared to set up a telephone and online help desk where people can go with all their questions? I believe that the CDA Group had already put that question to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We will continue the debate on this next week. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, there is and remains a future for the agricultural sector in the Netherlands. Someone who wants to be a farmer in the Netherlands, someone who wants to pass his business on to the next generation must be able to do so. This requires a sustainable future-proof way of farming, which takes account of the boundaries of man and nature, but also of the potential of a sector that is a world leader in agricultural innovation. Let us therefore work quickly and seriously together with the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u132	Thank you, Mr President. According to Wikipedia, a "tragedy" is a play with an intrigue that concerns a serious act. Often this leads to a fateful outcome, but besides this exit infelix I've heard that it gives you a lot of voices when you occasionally do some Greek or Latin in this Chamber, they also distinguish tragedies with an exit felix, or a happy ending. The intrigue of a tragedy works to a point where the hero becomes aware of his failure, after which a sudden and violent turn of events follows. The purpose of the tragedy is to exert a cleansing influence on the spirit of the spectators, the so-called catharsis. I have not yet seen any evidence of this cleansing capacity, but I thought: I am starting with this, because even though the agricultural policy in the Netherlands is actually one big grievance game, a happy ending is not excluded. But that does require, ladies and gentlemen, and especially Minister, that we face what has to be faced for a very long time. The proposals made by D66 in the newspaper, namely that the number of animals in the Netherlands should be reduced by half, have been advised for years by all experts to the Chamber and the Cabinet. Mr De Groot recalled the intervention of Minister Braks. I also remember Minister Braks saying very sensible things about the criteria you should apply for the number of animals that can be used in the Netherlands. Actually, that was: make sure you have enough soil to feed the animals and to get rid of the manure, and then you can also make sure that the animals can go outside. Those are very sensible criteria. After his interventions, the number of animals has grown again. Then there have been wise people who have said about the same thing. I'll call you Wijffels, CDA. I call former Minister Veerman, also CDA. I refer to the Purple II cabinet, which included the VVD, together with D66 and the Labour Party. The recognition has always been there: the number of animals in the Netherlands is far too large when you look at the sustainability of our agricultural model and the nature and environmental goals that we need to achieve. But it's all ignored. The last concrete proposal here was the first citizens' initiative to be dealt with here in the Chamber, namely Stop Wrong Meat. This has been fully calculated by the Agriculture Economic Institute. That looked at the nature and environmental goals that the cabinet had set itself. It was 2007, so the Party for Animals had in no way influenced that. They were therefore environmental and nature objectives which were also supported by the middle parties. That institute said: if you want to achieve those goals, it is inevitable that the number of animals in intensive livestock farming will shrink by 70%. It was said: start with that, because the longer you wait, the harder it gets and the more annoying it gets for everyone. Even in the end, the initiators of the citizens' initiative thought that 70% went a little far, so they proposed 50% to the Chamber. Unfortunately, that was rejected. However, we must note that the parties who took precious years away from farmers that scenario, in which there was also time for the changeover, did not want to implement it at the time. Those years could and probably would have been used for the conversion to an agricultural system that is sustainable in the long term. Mr. Chairman. So that's the tragedy in agriculture. If it is right, it is well known at the Ministry responsible for nature policy and for sustainable agriculture for farmers in the Netherlands that the model as it stands is not going. In fact, at the Ministry they can hang the chambers with all the advice, all the reports and all the passing-throughs, all of which found that sticking to the old model becomes a tragedy for everyone. That's what it turned out to be. The Council of State launched the latest trick devised by the CDA in 2009: the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. At that time it was already clear that it would prove very likely to be legally unsustainable. We have received advice from the Council of State, we have received advice from nature conservation lawyers. The Animal Party, of course, asked the CDA about the trick they had invented: you could start a new nitrogen policy because you want the livestock to go off the lock. There could no longer be any new permits for the expansion or new production of livestock farms, and the CDA did not like that, but it seems legally very shaky. What happens if the judge brings down this instrument? Is that on behalf of the farmers, the entrepreneurs, who have been granted a licence but still have to return it? That is a lack of clarity which the farmers do not want at all. Or is it to the taxpayer who will have to buy out entrepreneurs in a rule of law if the government has constantly said: no, here you have a permit, you can stay in it? The CDA's reaction at the time was: we'll see about that and until then the companies have benefited from it. So much for the responsibility that the CDA wanted to take for the clarity that farmers always ask for, for the state treasury that we still need to conserve: no unnecessary buy-outs if you can make policies in advance that can prevent that. I know that the Minister's group also agreed at the time to this programmed approach to nitrogen. The attitude of the coalition partners - we can just add the VVD to it - is: well, we see, we'll see what kind of mess there is and we'll solve it and in the meantime companies have just benefited from it. If I were a minister, I would feel a little more free to say within these coalition relations: listen, I am responsible for responsible agricultural policy and I think your plans are a little too lean, just a little too risky for the farmers. Within these tense relationships, I can only give the Minister one tip. The only thing that's gonna save her is presenting the truth. Leave the debate to the Chamber. Just send the facts on the table. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this. Does it recognise that the Agriculture Economic Institute for the Citizens' Initiative in 2007 has already calculated that a reduction in livestock by 70% in intensive livestock farming is inevitable if you want to achieve the natural goals, and that ammonia was also the most important criterion in that regard? Especially ammonia would be the limiting factor. Is she willing to acknowledge that? Or does she have any justification why that calculation wouldn't be like this anymore? Is it prepared to acknowledge that the Council has already said for the environment: nature is one thing, but if you look at climate, you can see that a shrinkage of livestock is inevitable for the climate targets that the Netherlands has committed itself to? The longer you wait, the harder it gets. If you do not, then all the CO emissions that the Netherlands could afford are entirely agricultural in view of the climate goals. Then there can be nothing more: then there can no more car, then there can no more factory run, nothing at all. Is the Minister prepared to acknowledge that here in this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The solutions to the nitrogen crisis should be known to the Ministry. The Animal Party is really worried that the Ministry responsible for nature policy, following the ruling of the European Court of Justice, has apparently not started working with scenarios, because it did not look good. I would like to hear a statement from the Minister, because I think she should be accountable. What did the Ministry do after the Council of State said that PAS policy couldn't do at all? That was in May of this year. The Ministry gives the impression that they have no idea what they should do to protect nature, while protecting nature is parked with this minister. That's her responsibility. There can be only two things going on: either they don't know it at the ministry or the minister dares not tell. And both can't be for a responsible ruler. The opinions obtained by the Chamber and the Minister are not a lie. A number of measures are inevitable and that means: significantly fewer animals, less speeding, less aviation, no formula 1 and nature recovery. I forget to mention one more, because it also includes: stop the subsidy on biomass plants. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, this includes the following. If you are finally going to implement the reform that agriculture needs and provide the clarity that agriculture deserves, you must also say that we are not going to do that Mercosur Treaty. It is simply not fair to impose natural, environmental and animal welfare requirements on farmers in the Netherlands and Europe and to reduce import duties on products produced in Brazil and in other countries far below those standards at the border. We have put this question to the Minister for Foreign Trade and he has now confirmed in reply to our parliamentary questions that there will indeed be no European standards. These Brazilian products are produced across European standards and the Mercosur Treaty says: with a reduction in import duties and quotas, beef and chicken meat can simply be sold on the European market, and hence in the Netherlands. I don't think that's fair. Stop the Mercosur agreement! That's what I'm asking the Minister to do. Whatever is needed is a ban on mega-stables. You cannot, as is always the case in the current policy and, unfortunately, the Remkes Committee's advice is also sending out on fewer farmers and more animals. Technological innovations are simply euphemisms for megasthals with low-emission floors and air scrubbers on them. Those air scrubbers are dangerous when a fire breaks out, because the whole barn will be on fire in no time. And then it also matters if there are 500 animals in it or 35,000 pigs, as in Grubbenvorst is going to happen. That stable will have 35,000 pigs and 1 billion chickens. 1 million, I mean! 1 million chickens is also bad enough. That stable would be Remkesproof. If the Minister does not prohibit megalomania or, reworded, if she does not set a ceiling on the number of animals you are allowed to keep per farm and related to the land and animal welfare and environmental objectives, then she does not protect the small farmers who want to work in this way. You're gonna give the big cowboys a free pass. Does the Minister recognize that's how it works? If you're not willing to maximize the number of animals per farm, then you get situations like with Streethof. It just had 24,000 pigs in one stable and then you can say: that would have been 24 farms with 1,000 pigs. Does the Minister recognise that this is how it works and is she prepared to limit the number of animals per farm from the point of view of animal welfare and because you want to protect small farms? When you do that, you pay attention to what the animals need and what nature and the environment can handle. Mr. Chairman. The Minister said on the Malieveld to the farmers: as long as I am a minister, there will be no halving of the livestock. We consider that to be extremely unwise. If that were based on substantiated scenarios which ensure that it is not necessary, given nitrogen, given climate, given animal welfare, it would have a story. But she seemed to say it a little out of the loose wrist. Either she has to come up with the figures from which we can conclude that it is really not necessary, or she has said something to the farmers which sounds good, but which she cannot live up to. I don't think that's a good idea. GroenLinks already asked the question. Suppose it is necessary, did the Minister attach her fate to whether or not the number of animals in the Netherlands is shrinking, or should we see it differently? I'm just saying that we already have the analysis of why it's necessary. Mr. Chairman. We're having an extensive debate next week... Well, it's extensive. I think we have five minutes. In any case, we are having a major debate on the measures that the government is going to take in the context of the nitrogen crisis. The Animal Party is concerned because the letter that came on Friday is still very vague. I do not think we can have a good debate if we do not have scenarios, do not know how much the cabinet wants to go through with the reorganisation, and do not know what the goals are. It seems that the Ministry responsible for nature does not yet know which reduction rates to take into account. I would like to ask the Chamber if it will allow me to table a motion in the first term. I want a new letter from the cabinet before we start the debate. That must be done in the first time, so that tomorrow it can participate in the votes that have already been planned. But I know I need permission from the Chamber to table a motion in the first term, so I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u133	It is customary to hold the debate first and to table a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr President, you are right. I'll just make it clear why I'm doing it like this. The second term of this Chamber is tomorrow night. That means I can't file the motion until tomorrow night. Then we can vote on it on Tuesday. That is a little late for the debate we want to have next week. I have just seen in the order of business that there will be votes tomorrow. I would very much like to see this motion included in those votes. That means I have to file her now, if the Chamber will allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u135	Yes, but also for tomorrow's votes, you should have asked that in the regulation, because all Members of Parliament should know what they are going to vote on tomorrow. You're gonna need a majority for that, too. So in order to table a motion now, you need a majority, but you also need a majority to vote on it tomorrow. That should have been dealt with in the scheme. Don't look so angry, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u136	Madam President. My father used to say: Dion later becomes director of the Gulpener vinegar factory, because I always seem to look the easiest. So even when I'm relaxed, I look angry. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u137	Yeah, that's what's bothering me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u138	But I'm not angry or anything; that's just how I look most easily. In any case, I would like to support Mrs Ouwehand to do it now. As far as I'm concerned, she can file her motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u139	Okay, but then I'm gonna see if there's a majority for it. Then I'll go to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr. Chairman. I would like to support it, but if I understand correctly, it is actually a request for information. The Chamber is entitled to information if it so requests. I would like to support the request for information for the debate anyway. If the only way to do that is through a motion, it's the only way to do it. But it also seems to me that it should be possible to go beyond that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u141	That is an individual right of Members of Parliament. That's what you're saying. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr. Chairman. That was my question, too. Is it now a motion to send a letter, which we then accept, so that we get a letter? We can support a request for a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u143	No, Mrs. Ouwehand, you are not going to read the motion. You can only tell me what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u144	My motion will be that the Chamber should say to the Minister: we want a new letter and it must be much more concrete and clear. That is what I said in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u145	Mrs. Lodders. But now I still don't know what you're gonna do, Mrs. Bromet. It's all about information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u146	I'd really like that information. If a motion is the only way, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u147	I always like to ask for information. I am not opposed to that either, but frankly I do not see so much as why this should be done by means of a motion. I would ask Mrs Ouwehand to simply ask the Minister for information. I know the Minister, and if there's a request for information, I think we'll get that information, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u148	I believe that in good traffic between the Chamber and the rulers, when a letter is requested, it is also provided. If it is not provided, you can always table a motion to give an opinion on it. When the request is made, I am in good faith and I assume that a letter will be made and sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u149	And so no motion? Support, I mean. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u150	I cannot put it more beautifully than Mr Moorlag. So I support Mr Moorlag and not Mrs Ouwehand's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u151	I'll take a look around. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u152	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u153	Oh, sorry, Mrs. Fat-Faber. I'm a little... Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u154	Mr. Chairman. I also agree with what Mr Moorlag said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u155	That goes for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u156	Then you have no majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u157	No, Mr. Chairman, I can see that. But I can see that coalition parties also say: if you want information, I'm counting on the government to give it to you. So I'll read for you what I'd like, and I hope the Minister will respond positively to that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u158	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u159	I had formulated my motion as follows. So I'm not gonna file it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u160	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u161	But I'll read the motion. Commenting that the nitrogen crisis calls for decisive action and a clear plan of action...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u162	Mrs. Ouwehand, we're not going to read a motion, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u163	Shall I do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u164	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u165	Then I'll try to vary on what I have in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u166	You're very good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u167	Yeah, well, then it doesn't get that formal. We have seen that the letter sent by the Minister of LNV last Friday on the cabinet approach to the nitrogen crisis does not contain any specific objective, does not provide any clarity about the effects of planned measures and does not yet present any new resources. I would therefore ask the Minister to send a new letter before the debate on the problem of nitrogen, containing concrete objectives, quantified measures or scenarios. But I can also imagine that the Minister still finds it too difficult to make a decision. I see that within the coalition there is quite a lot of trouble about who wants fewer animals now, who wants to drive less fast or neither. Then I'll just present the scenarios and we'll open the debate in the Chamber. I can imagine if the minister said, "You guys figure it out with your fights, and I'll find out what it's gonna be." But it is clear that I hope the Minister will take care of this and that nature must be protected. That is what we are obliged to do; that is what our Constitution says. So: you can choose a, b, c or d, these are the scenarios and those are the consequences, but you have to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u168	That's much more vivid than a motion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u169	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u170	That's the way a debate should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u171	But if the Minister says he's not gonna do that tomorrow, I won't have a chance. We'll only vote on Tuesday. Well, well, thank you very much for this novelty and for allowing me to do so in the Chamber: not to table a motion, but to table a motion and then read it out. I have another tip for the Minister. After this Minister took office, I said: congratulations, you are on Agriculture, but there are a lot of difficult choices. Those choices have to be made. The farmers deserve that, too. I also have to deal with the Minister in the sense that it is a heavy burden. For a long time, agriculture has not been a mass in the Hague politics, but there are very important choices to be made in agriculture that have a very significant impact on our country's viability. It is particularly difficult for this minister, but I welcome the fact that these choices lie ahead. And because those choices have big consequences, that has to be done right. So far, unfortunately, we have seen that the Minister has not yet felt supported by him to move forward. I don't know if the proper analysis is being made at the Ministry. For example, the General Court warns that if you do not make the right choices and do not dare to intervene, the rules pile up and it becomes a tragedy for everyone. I do not know whether this kind of analysis is adequately reflected in the advice that will then be given to the Minister, but as MPs we can simply see that it has been warned for so long and that the choices that have to be made have been put forward for so long, that I had hoped that this minister would have come to that by now. It hasn't worked yet. I also see how the coalition struggles, and I find that annoying for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u172	I have a question about that. Mrs. Ouwehand is talking about whether the Ministry has seen it. We have a report from the Remkes committee which Mrs Ouwehand does not think is a very good report, but what GroenLinks does think is a groundbreaking report. Is that a problem for the officials at the ministry and the minister, or does the political force of the coalition and the weakened compromise play a role here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u173	That's the question. I have also made this appeal to previous farmers. And whether the coalition wants it or not, the facts are the facts. If you are responsible for nature policy and also for an agricultural policy that is fair to farmers, namely fair about what can and cannot be done, then you can also, as Minister of State or Secretary of State, choose to simply present the facts and open the debate on them in the Chamber. I therefore acknowledge that the conservative section of the Chamber in the field of agriculture, in particular, is working fairly against a minister who would like to go ahead. But I'm also saying there's another route. The facts are the facts. With regard to the phosphate drama, I told Secretary of State Dijksma, when she was in a coalition with the Labour Party with the VVD, that she should simply have said to Mrs Lodders: very nice what you want here and I see that you have arranged for a majority in the Chamber, but it will be a tragedy and I am not going to implement it, because I am responsible for sound and sound agricultural policy. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u174	So even if that meant the end of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u175	Yes. I believe that the parties that oppose healthy and sensible choices should take responsibility for that themselves. So I fully acknowledge that the Minister has no easy task, but the choices have to be made. I think the farmers also deserve to have a ruler who's honest with them. Since that seems to be difficult, we saw that in the peasant protest, I would like to ask the Minister here in this Chamber to acknowledge a number of things. We see that the debate is weirdly framed by the mantra 'farmers take care of our food'. This may be true, but 70% to 80% of what is produced in the Netherlands is for export. Does the Minister recognize that? And does she recognize that it's a bit of a half-story when you say that farmers are needed for food in the Netherlands? Agriculture as a whole goes beyond natural and environmental boundaries. It's not like we'd be hungry here if we intervened. I would also like to ask the Minister to tell us in this Chamber, let us stick to the pigs for a moment, how many pig farms we had in 2005 and how many there are by now. How many pigs did we have in 2005 and how many are there now? I would like her to make it clear, including to the farmers, that it may be annoying to read in the newspaper that the number of animals has to be reduced, but that this does not mean that the number of farmers is going to halve from now on and that this is a whole new situation. Because of the lack of choices in agricultural policy, five to seven farmers have to stop each day. If the Minister brings that into the debate, it will give a completely different dynamic, won't it? That also makes Dutch people understand: oh, how things are now, is annoying for small family businesses. Only the big boys with their mega stables will last if they invest in an air washer. This is due to the lack of choices. If you don't reduce the number of animals, you're gonna have to solve it with technique. Those outcomes are limited in any case. What we can expect from the technique is never enough. As a result, farmers rightly say: now I have invested in low-emission floors and it is not enough. Here's what's gonna happen. If a farmer wants to invest, he has to invest with a low-emission floor or an air washer. Then the Rabobank says: that's all nice and nice, but then you have to add more animals, because otherwise it doesn't pay off. That is the policy that is constantly steering on further scaling up. The small family farms are being squeezed away and the wretched thing is that the investments, which are partly to be made by farmers and partly with a lot of taxpayers' money, are never enough to achieve the nature goals. The farmers say all these rules drive them crazy, I get it. I would like the Minister to explain what that is about. If you stay out of the way of the big choices, the Court of Auditors has also said so, then you will remain in this situation where you force farmers to invest in measures that we already know will not be enough. What also strikes me in the debate is that it is said that livestock farming has already done so much to reduce nitrogen. That may be true, but I believe that the Minister responsible for nature policy should explain that the rules of nature are not so much a set of rules. Nature suffers from continuous deposition of ammonia, i.e. precipitation of ammonia in natural areas, which is higher than the area can handle. You have to compare that to the next situation. What if you live in a terraced house and your neighbor throws ten garbage bags over the fence every day? You don't like that. If you contact your neighbor after a few days, there are already 50 garbage bags after 5 days. And then he says, "You know what, I'm gonna cut that by half." I'll only do five more a day from now on. You're not satisfied with that, are you? But that's how it works with nature policy. The garbage bags that are already there are over there. That neighbor's not gonna clean them up. And there's new garbage bags coming up every time. I call on the Minister not to allow these misunderstandings about nature policy to exist. It may be that livestock farming has worked on reduction, but that's not how it works when you look at the nature rules. I think farmers are entitled to that clarity. I also think farmers should be entitled to say: yes, that's right, Schiphol should also shrink. It is not enough just to make a vague announcement of some measures for agriculture and not to say anything about them. Just tell me that's going to be inevitable, too, a shrinkage of aviation. Another thing I see coming back to the discussion is what Mrs Lodder said: Dutch agriculture is so efficient, because we have the least emissions per kilogram of product. I also think that the Minister should say that it does not work that way. The Netherlands may have the lowest emissions per kilogram of pork, but if you put a lot of pigs on a stick, that still means that the total emissions are unacceptable. And the Netherlands is the most cattle-proof country in the world. Nowhere in the world are as many animals as in our country. You can say that we are efficient per kilogram of product, but that is not the way environmental policy works, and that is not how climate policy works. That is the issue of emissions as a whole. The same goes for agricultural poison. It may be that we use the least poison per kilogram of product, but if you use a lot of poison anywhere in the Netherlands close to residential homes, that is also the case, because the Netherlands is in the top two of the number of countries with the highest use of poison in Europe. I am really disappointed that the Minister is even ignoring adopted motions from the Chamber, where she could feel the freedom to intervene, to protect residents from at least the use of agricultural poison near their homes and the schoolyards where their children play. The Chamber has said: set distance standards. And the minister sent a letter the day before yesterday saying she's not gonna do it. Why not apply the precautionary principle and tell parties in the coalition who might complain about it? Yes, the precautionary principle is one of the instruments I can use. Moreover, the majority of the Chamber has asked me to do so. I do not understand, because this minister, in response to the concerns of local residents, has said that things have to be radically different with these pesticides. This is not radically different. Here's what we already know. Do more research and "I'll see what I can do." Mr. Chairman. I think that the Minister, in parallel with the choices that need to be made, can do a lot to explain to farmers what the boundaries we are running into are and advise them not to let people make a fool of themselves who claim otherwise. She can say: it's going this way and we're going to help you switch to an agriculture that is sustainable in our little Netherlands. Passing the plant transition is my tip. If the Minister carries it out, there are good prospects for the farmers. I also think that she should respond to all the debate tricks that are taking place and that, in fact, I understand that well enough to only stir up anger among farmers. Finally, Mr President. I am glad to hear that D66 now also says that you should not forget the animals if you want to carry out circular farming. We have referred earlier to the promises made to the animals by previous cabinets. Actually in 2012, but by 2022 the systems in which animals are kept would not be adapted to the animal, but vice versa. I'm saying it wrong. The animals are not adapted to the system, but the system to the animal. Animals should be able to exhibit their natural behavior. I asked this minister earlier about this 2022 deadline of former Minister Verburg. I don't see any plan to get these yet. On routine breeding of pigtails, which has been banned for a very long time in Europe, the Minister says: we may do so voluntarily in 2030. Well, why? Why did the Minister so emphatically leave the animals out of her circular vision? Why doesn't she get to work and not use that mandate, so that cabinet promises have already been made for animal welfare, and does she confront the Chamber that these promises have been made? Why doesn't she say that the deadline was 2022 and you can expect this measure from me? I say to the Minister that the social interest in animal welfare and the importance of animal welfare are only growing. So you organize your own resistance if you just keep walking away from it and don't keep the promises that this government has made for the animals. Then it is sad to see, for example, the piglets mortality; it is just an example. Former Minister Verburg said it was too high. It gave the sector ten years to take measures to reduce this mortality. Then it appears that it has not become smaller but has just risen, and the Minister says: yes, it is a pity the pammer. And D66 says, well, we're only giving them another five years. Tax money goes to these programmes, so the sector does not have to follow the rules and gets money and does not achieve the goals. And if they make it to the targets, they get extra time. Well, what does the Minister think that does that with the confidence of citizens in politics, the confidence that this political animal welfare takes seriously? Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister to put an end to the peasant deception. I ask the Minister to make the choices needed to solve the problems for nature in the Netherlands, but also to look beyond that. You can't just steer towards nitrogen; we also have problems with nitrate, we also have climate targets that we have to stick to. And there are animal welfare goals to achieve. If she combines all this with each other, the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality should be able to present a future perspective with a timeline. A number of farmers will have to be bought out acutely and a number of farmers can take the time to switch over, but it has to. If the Minister cannot present these plans before we enter into the big, fundamental debate next week, I really wonder what is happening at that ministry. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, also on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ouwehand ended her speech with a plea to put an end to the farmers' deception. I begin my speech with a plea to put an end to the fishing deception. Because a week and a half ago, the NIS revealed large-scale fishing fraud. The Dutch government has for years overlooked the fact that fishermen are cheating with engine power. Much heavier engines were used than allowed, with dramatic consequences for nature. Because with these heavy engines, the cutter ships attract larger nets and heavier chains across the sea floor. That's how they plow the entire sea floor. The Ministry knew about the fraud, made good promises, but didn't deliver. For five years the inspection was not responsible for the control of those engines, but commercial parties were. All this time, there hasn't been one fine handed out. In the following seven years, the NVWA controlled 23 ships out of a total of 300; that is 1% of the fishing fleet per year. For example, the fishermen who did fish according to the licence were severely disadvantaged by the free boys, the cowboys of the seas. Nature was the great victim, because these scams did a lot of damage with their heavy engines and high speed. The Minister's response to this fraud shows a huge lack of attention to the protection of the marine environment. "We see that that doesn't work this way now," she reports to the NOS. "Now" then. Mr. Chairman. In 2006 it was 13 years ago that there was already a judge's ruling that there should be better enforcement. So that's not now. After that time, several reports were published on the violation of the rules by the fisheries sector. All the minister's predecessors promised to deal with the fraud, but they didn't. Why hasn't the Ministry intervened before? Why did the Ministry never comply with the judgment of the judge, which the State ordered in 2006 to enforce better? And why has the Netherlands never responded to the reports describing the fraud? On the European Commission's recent report June this year? Can the Minister give a response to that? I expect the Minister to have them immediately look into how many ships are cheating and start large-scale checks and fines tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. A court order disappeared without apologizing in a dusty drawer. Recommendations from critical reports were well nodded, but they did not lead to better control and enforcement. Nature was the child of the account and nature is the child of the account. We must now quickly find out what the damage to nature is, because allowing illegal fishing on such a large scale for years can only have a major impact on biodiversity. Without adequate control, the Minister's sustainable fisheries policy is nothing more than a paper reality. An IPBES report from the UN identifies fishing as one of the biggest threats to underwater biodiversity. The Minister stated in her explanatory statement on the budget that he was working towards ambitious targets following that alarming report and the upcoming biodiversity conference in Beijing in 2020. In her Monday letter, the minister says she wants to move towards better monitoring. Does that also apply to the Netherlands? Does this also apply to the control of illegal fishing? And does that also mean that it will put an end to illegal fishing, which is a form of poaching, in the largest nature reserve in the Netherlands, namely the North Sea? That she's gonna keep it tight and dump all the rotten apples out of the basket? You cannot go back to playing at a biodiversity conference and at the same time overlook the ongoing illegal attacks on biodiversity in your own country. We are talking about serious economic crimes with major consequences for vulnerable nature. The Minister has the legal task and the moral duty to protect that nature. How's she gonna do that? Is it prepared to close at least Natura 2000 areas to fisheries? Mr. Chairman. Then, like a number of other groups, I would like to talk about trees and the cutting of trees in our country. The cabinet has set aside 6 million to expand the forest area. That sounds nice, but it's not a big deal if you sell it against the large-scale tree hood that's still taking place. In the Netherlands, 3,500 hectares of trees disappear every year. This means that every hour we lose a forest area the size of a small football field, 0.4 hectares. Whole parts of the forest go against the plain under the guise of forest management and ecosystems are destroyed by bald cover. State Forest Management sold almost 400 hectares of nature this summer. There is sawn and chopped in forests during the breeding season. Rest wood is disposed of to biomass plants. Moreover, the government wants to continue to broaden highways as if there was no climate crisis at all, as if the judge had never spoken out against the PAS. The widening of the A9 and moving a gas station costs 14,000 trees. All these trees cut and at the same time spend EUR 6 million on planting trees elsewhere, that's not only natural destruction; it's also capital destruction. That $6 million is just a tip to cover up this cabinet's fossil destruction policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u178	I read that 38% of deforestation has to do with conversion to other nature. Does Mr Wassenberg agree with me that this should actually be banned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u179	I am very much in favour of changing nature, but I am opposed to cutting forests for that. There are many other areas in the Netherlands that you could use much better for that. As far as the cutting of trees to make them different nature is concerned, to a large extent they are also damage recovery measures. That has to be done in a different way. We want, on the one hand, to extend the area of nature and, very importantly, to link up nature reserves, but, in our view, the cutting of forests is not an option. There are other ways to expand nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u180	That answer is in line with my thinking, but the reality is that there is that large percentage, so that's pretty worrying. Does Mr Wassenberg agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u181	I agree with Mr von Martels that it is worrying to cut down forests to make them different nature. This other nature is desperately needed. It has already been mentioned by other colleagues: the Netherlands is the country in the European Union with the least nature. We need to expand it, but we don't need to cut down forests for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u182	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u183	Mr. Chairman. In the coming years, the cabinet will want to invest heavily in Carbon Capture and Storage, but that's what it's called. Capturing and storing carbon; that's what it means. The Ministry of EZK is concerned with this, but of course this subject fits much better with LNV, because LNV has the very best possibilities to extract and store carbon from the air, namely trees. With their leaves, trees extract CO from the sky. They capture them under the influence of sunlight in sugars and then in wood. It's called photosynthesis. In addition, that's a nice encore.... those trees also make oxygen once more. Get yourself killed at an industrial CCS plant. Full-grown trees are a lot more effective in storing CO than young trees because of their large mass. So the very, very best way, with distance, to capture and store CO is not to cut down a tree. The second best way is to plant new trees, especially for the future, because new trees grow old. It is also important for another reason to be thriving on the trees we have, because natural and old forests contain more animal and plant species. They are therefore better for biodiversity and capture much more CO. So when it comes to trees, it's not either-or just and-and. We must cherish, protect, certainly not cut down existing trees and forests, and, in response to Mr von Martels, we must expand the forests by new plantings and by giving new land a natural destination; new land, not forests. So the money that the Cabinet has now reserved for CCS cannot be spent better than on preserving our trees. I would like a response from the Minister. Does she agree with me that trees capture CO in an efficient, very energy-friendly way and that this is also for a period of decades? Does she agree with me that trees are a nature-friendly and climate-friendly variant of CCS and are therefore worth investing in? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to talk about the fight against musk rats, because... I see an interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u184	I have one more question about the trees and the woods. Does Mr Wassenberg agree with me that there should be a lot of woodwalls as well? The PVV is very much in favour of this. For example, at the Oostvaardersplassen, more animals were found dead from cold than from lack of food and drink. So a lot of animals have been killed more by the cold. We would like to see a lot of wood walls in these forests, especially in the case of new plantings, sheltering deer, wild boar and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u185	Absolutely, and I don't think it's just woodwalls. You could also think of hedges. There can also be animals nesting in them. So more woodwalls, yes, but not something else. Of course, that's all there is to it. Woodwalls, hedges and so on can also increase biodiversity, so yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u186	Indeed, the number of bees we are fighting for together. Perhaps Mr. Wassenberg could pass that question on to the Minister. Thank you. A "Grausje," a second "Grausje" today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u187	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u188	I see the Minister paying attention. It could just be that she heard it and her officials did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u189	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u190	Mr. Chairman. A natural cut: I'm going to talk about the fight against musk rats. It is time for a new alliance between humans and animals. I'm not saying that. Last week the Animal Affairs Council wrote this in its report the State of the Animal. Breaches of animal welfare, according to the council, are becoming less and less accepted. The Council states that much remains to be done on animal welfare. I would like to illustrate this with an example. On 14 June, the Union of Water Councils agreed to reduce the muskrat to the land border. By this they mean: eradicate until there is no muskrat left, the so-called zero-position policy. Underwater storage cages and clamps are used for this purpose. The muskrat would even pose such a great danger to dikes that the animals should be combated with drones, heat cameras and sonar images. Pestilence animals are already being framed as unwanted guests, as intruders and sneaking dangers. The Council considers that a different meaning should be given to these animals. "The framing of animal species as pests is no longer acceptable," says the council's report. "If animals are still being combated," the quote goes on, "for example invasive exotics, it is important to make the control more animal-friendly." Making the fight more animal-friendly: does the Minister support this? Once again, this is the opinion of the Animal Affairs Council. Mr. Chairman. The plan of the waterboards is not exactly animal-friendly or nature-friendly, and then I express myself very softly. Musk rats, but also other animals such as beavers, cause a few minutes of death in underwater cages and clamps. Moreover, the question is whether management is legal. Waterboards are not required to kill animals, but they are obliged to spare animals all possible pain, tension and suffering. That is a European law, which the Netherlands simply has to implement. Can the Minister respond to this in her term? Moreover, according to the law, the killing of animals should only be a last resort. It must be a last resort, and it can only be done if we fail to ward off and drive away. Alternative measures must therefore be taken first; dikes, frameworks and banks of muskratproofing would be such a measure. The field test on which the waterboards base their policies has serious shortcomings. No distinction is made between different areas, the duration of the trial was far too short and preventive measures have hardly been investigated. Despite these shortcomings in the study, the fight against muskrat has been considerably increased; but there is no last resort here, and that is not the right way to do it. I would like to know from the Minister whether the waterboards' management plans have been assessed in accordance with European national laws. And if so, what were the conclusions? Can the Minister explain how much the national extermination of the muskrat will cost the taxpayer? Isn't that money to be spent in a much better way, for example by making important dikes or quays muskratproof? Because the total extermination of the muskrat is, of course, an illusion, because animals will always come from Germany and Belgium. I would like to know from the Minister: is it not the case that poor maintenance, especially in periods of severe drought, is the greatest threat to dikes? Shouldn't we just bet on better control, on better maintenance and strengthening dikes instead of wasting millions of dollars on musk rat control? I want to talk about animal testing. Half a million animal experiments are carried out every year in the Netherlands. Do you know how many of these animal experiments pass the test stage? How much percent is successfully translated into human beings? That's only 10%. 10%! This means that in nine out of ten animal experiments animals suffer and die without purpose. Fortunately, however, a lot of important research is being carried out into new technologies to phase out these animal experiments. That's not only good for animals, it's good for patients as well. The research based on human cells, combinations between biology and ICT cell-on-a-chip, organ-on-a-chip, you even have body-on-a-chip. However, new research methods are still not being applied and we are still stuck with that animal test. In fact, we all want to get rid of that animal test, we all want the research to be done in a better, more reliable, more animal-friendly way, and that is not happening. At the end of 2015, the government expressed the ambition that the Netherlands will be the world leader in experimental animal-free innovations in 2025. Only, as time progressed without the cabinet doing much to bring that objective closer, that ambition was weakened. And the Netherlands doesn't have to be the frontrunner of this cabinet, because "one of the forerunners" is enough. One of the forerunners is quick, for in the land of the blind there is an eye king. In the field of animal-free research methods, there are a lot of hopeful developments, though I mentioned some of them, but yet the animal test remains the golden standard, no matter how unjust it may be. For the time being, the policy remains insufficient to replace the animal test with better and innovative research methods. The fact that the number of animal experiments has not fallen structurally for years, but somewhere between 500,000 and 600,000 animal experiments per year, is the best proof that more really needs to be done. The public funding of innovative research without experimental animals and the development and completion of test methods is small beer compared to the hundreds of millions that go into animal research. For 2020, only 2.1 million euros have been budgeted by the Cabinet for animal-free research. It is therefore relatively small amounts, which are not of a structural nature, but of a maximum of a few years. This does not build a structural structure of animal-free research. We need structural funding, long-term financing and, preferably, increasing funding. That is why I would like to make a proposal. This funding can be achieved by transferring the public budget for animal experiments of a small percentage, 1%, from the research budget with experimental animals to the research programme without experimental animals each year. For example, the proportion of animal-free research increases every year compared to the research carried out with experimental animals. So we achieve what everyone really wants, namely the replacement of the old-fashioned animal test with better, more accurate and more reliable laboratory research. Is the Minister prepared to have that idea of a new form of financing investigated? This means that the amount available each year for research with experimental animals is barely significantly reduced each year, i.e. by 1%. If that's EUR 500 million, it's EUR 5 million. The difference between EUR 500 million and EUR 495 million is hardly noticeable. At the same time, the budget for animal-free research is increasing by EUR 5 million over the same period. From 2.1 million to 7.1 million is a giant step. The following year, another step is being taken. In this way, we can take a very big step in the development of animal-free research in a number of years. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two brief topics. In 1993, the field police were dissolved. The police were then faced with a major austerity blow under the various Rutte Cabinets. As a result, the police have largely disappeared from the outskirts. The consequences are clear and dramatic: increasing problems of drug dumping, poaching, destruction of animal shelters and illegal tree cover. I went to work in Limburg during the recess. There I have seen with my own eyes that there is a handful of boas against the increasing, major crime. I'm glad the VVD realizes that boas in the outskirts are on the lips of the water. Only the solution put forward by the VVD and the hunter lobby is quite wrong as far as I am concerned: using hunters as a boa, because you have cut the police in the outskirts. Hunters are people who are not trained for that and, in my opinion, are not suitable for that. They're not independent. The Animal Party would like to see the police again in the outskirts, because that control and enforcement is very important and must, as far as we are concerned, be done by the police. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my final subject: animal cruelty and animal neglect. I see Mr Graus wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u191	Will you give Mr Graus the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u192	Do you want me to tell you? Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u193	The PVV has been asking for the return of the field police since 2006. From 2011 there is an animal police, for which we employ 500 people. It's D66 that turned the neck that made it 500. That animal police would also ensure the return of the field police, because the animal police would also be patrolling, maintaining and detectives in outlying areas, in particular against poaching by heavily armed Eastern bloc gangs. Perhaps Mr Wassenberg should pass on the question in a different way. The number of animal policemen is currently 180. If they become full-timers, you already have some kind of field animal police back in the outskirts. They'll have half more time to do that. You may be able to help with that. This is more feasible. That's why I'd like to ask you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u194	Mr Graus knows that in me he really has a supporter and a fellow fighter when it comes to the animal police. I would even argue in favour of simply extending the animal police back to the original level. Now it is the so-called task holders who are working on it part of their time. My party is strongly in favour of the animal police returning to full strength. That would indeed be a way of carrying out control in the outside world. If it isn't, it has to be done in a different way. To the left or to the right: this control must also be stronger in the outskirts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u195	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u196	I was at animal abuse. Almost weekly reports of poignant neglect and serious abuse of animals appear. For example, we are talking about neglected dogs in their own feces or about hundreds of birds in tight cages in a shed in the garden. Convicted animal executioners can keep animals again in the Netherlands after serving their sentence or after paying their fine. We know that the chances of another animal executioner mistreating animals are life-threatening. Since its inception, the Animal Party has been advocating a long-term and possibly life-long restraining ban on people who have committed animal abuse. On animal day last year, the Minister of Justice and this Minister announced that they are finally going to introduce a restraining ban as an independent measure. Bravo, Bravo, This means that the convicted animal abuser is no longer allowed to keep animals for a maximum period of ten years after serving his sentence. So much for the good news. The bad news is that a life-long restraining order is not going to be a possibility for the judge. Ten years isn't very long when you look at what humans can do to animals. My question is whether the Minister can explain why this possibility of a life-long restraining ban is already rejected in advance. The other bad news is that we've been waiting a year for the bill to finally come to the Chamber. Can the Minister explain why this is taking so long and perhaps give us a hint of the veil when we can see that bill? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Mr Bishop this afternoon. Tomorrow he hopes to be here himself again. Mr. Chairman. We are at a crossroads: do we continue with sustainable hand in hand with the farmer or over the back of the farmer, side by side with the fisherman or opposite the fisherman? Our farmers and fishermen are now being hit triple. First of all, Europe. Brussels sets requirements for plant protection, the environment and animal welfare. But strangely enough, the same Europe is opening up the door to imports of products from countries where they inject more, grow more genetically modified crops and have less animal welfare requirements. Think of Mercosur's and CETA's trade agreements. It is incomprehensible that the cabinet is so positive about this. My question is: when is that going to change? It is incomprehensible that Commissioner Timmermans is now calling for almost half the agricultural budget. And it's incomprehensible that the pulse cortex should be put under the spell. It is very good that the Minister comes to the European Court to fight this. Then the Netherlands. Our own government is once again making a move on top of Brussels' policy. Germany and Belgium are much more generous with exemptions for plant protection products. Our beet growers are even forced to inject more instead of less. Germany has a threshold of at least 7 moles for nitrogen deposition. Why does the cabinet dare not go beyond a threshold of 0,05 mol, which is 0.01% of the lowest critical deposition value? Will entrepreneurs be given enough room for innovation, even if it goes beyond the framework of Bezuidenhout? Unfortunately, they are still too often running into irresistible ticking lists at the moment. One shovel on top of the rest of Europe and two shovels on top of the rest of the world. Is that what our farmers get paid for? On the contrary. Sales prices remain below the cost price. At the same time, the scope for restrictive agreements is limited and the self-employed, including farmers and gardeners, and the income bonus are reduced. Furthermore, hundreds of farmers' families are still struggling with the introduction of phosphate rights. They've already had to pay huge fines, while they're still waiting for a verdict from the judge to whom they've been referred by the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. How can you be green when you're red and the rest of the world just goes ahead? When a lot of media and politicians, especially on the left side of the spectrum, paint you black all the time, the turnips are cooked and you see what happened last week, you're on the Malieveld. It's, it was a loud echo of frustration at many kitchen tables. For example, that farmer's daughter who told us: why would my parents go on and do their best to join if they get smelly thanks? Again, we are at a crossroads: are we going to continue to be sustainable with the farmer or over the back of the farmer? The SGP strongly opts for the first. Rent mastery calls for further sustainability Let's be clear about that, but not about the back of peasant families. My question is: what is the cabinet going to do? Firstly, the budget. Next year, the budget will rise to 1 billion in relation to the temporary budget for climate and livestock measures. But in the years after, another quarter goes off. However, further sustainability of agriculture is a long-term issue. Can we not agree to keep that budget at EUR 1 billion? This would then be financed from, for example, an increase in the tax on flights; the air transport sector has so far been completely out of control. If we don't want to pull the wallet in the store, we're gonna have to take care of it another way. Mr. Chairman. The Minister would like companies to switch to an even more sustainable way of working. We'd like to facilitate that with her. Companies that switch to, for example, biologically, run into a big dip because they are not allowed to deliver biologically for a few years or because all kinds of childhood diseases occur. We have a system for this: the Guarantee scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) agricultural credits. But I hear from the field that only a handful of entrepreneurs use this. The problem is not a lack of capital but a gap in available liquidity. Will the Minister, in consultation with the sector, see how switches can be supported in those ugly years? Following this, the SGP calls for an agricultural agreement with a ten to fifteen-year horizon to prevent jojo policy, and for a risk and investment fund to support conversion and sustainability in general. The Chamber adopted an SGP motion on this matter for the summer. In the meantime, the Task Force for Earning Capacities is also advocating such a fund. What is the Minister going to do to make this possible? Then nitrogen, Mr. Chairman. In the background I taste a clash between the ivory towers of The Hague and Hilversum and the population in the region. Look at the nitrogen file. Two sizes are measured. That is a proverb, but my real question is: when are we really going to measure the deposition? We made a few calculations ourselves with AERIUS. To our great surprise it appears that on road traffic the deposition is calculated up to a distance of 5 kilometres. In a dairy farm, the model calculates the deposition up to tens of kilometers away. For road traffic, reference is simply made to normal air quality calculations. And rightly so, because the theoretically calculated deposition at great distances is limited and falls away from the background deposition and the margins of uncertainty. Why not draw this line from livestock farms and construction projects? I understand that this might be a bit of a complicated question. I would like the answer to this question at least for next week's debate. The cabinet wants emission reduction without extra money. The Natura 2000 regime remains untouched. Does livestock farming now have to deliver unilaterally in order to eliminate construction and infrastructure projects? What can I say to the farmer's son who has just taken over his father's business and now sees the space he was counting on going up in smoke? Why remove production rights when private parties externally salad? Aviation is also out of the question. I therefore propose that at least the flight tax should be increased and that this budget should be used to a large extent for the financing of emission reduction in the farmer's inheritance. Finally, the fisheries sector, Mr President. Fishing companies fear major chaos following a possible no-dealbrexit and Brussels' disregard of fishing interests. Other fishing Member States are setting up their prime minister. I hardly hear our Prime Minister talking about it. So I'd like some action from the Prime Minister, too. In addition, I would like to congratulate this Deputy Prime Minister, who is committed to doing so. Finally, Mr President. We're at a crossroads. The question is: are we going to be more sustainable with the farmer or over the back of the farmer, with the fisherman or over the back of the fisherman? I understand that this is not an easy task, but let's not punish them but reward them, let's not blackmail them, let's encourage them, let's not stack rules, let's facilitate innovations, let's put our hands on them together. I therefore wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom and compassion for our farmers and our fishermen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u199	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u200	Mr. Chairman. Let me get straight to the point, because today we are discussing the agricultural budget and the distressing situation of farmers in the Netherlands. Despite their hard and honest work and their invaluable value for the Netherlands, they are under heavy pressure. Last week 10,000 farmers were on the Malieveld, because after decades of bullying, suffocating regulations and total contempt, farmers are tired of it. And rightly so. First of all, take the dairy sector. For 30 years, it was cut off by the European milk quota. When this was finally abolished in 2015, farmers were given an equally suffocating phosphate ceiling for it. The European Union has stipulated that the Netherlands may emit up to 85 million kilos of phosphate. Farmers should therefore have phosphate rights for their cows. According to the Dutch calculation method, a cow accounts for 40 kilos of phosphate per year. As the kilo price for phosphate rights currently amounts to approximately €150, a farmer therefore pays over €6,000 for a cow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u201	I wondered for a moment whether Mr Baudet knows why the European Union has made such a demand in the light of the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u202	No, I don't. Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u203	Yeah, you can. I welcome this invitation. Dutch farmers are allowed to drive more manure onto the land than other farmers in the European Union. It's called a derogation. There is a requirement for this derogation, namely that ceiling. Because the Netherlands, after releasing the milk quota, did not choose to set up another production limiting system, we went through that ceiling. When farmers threatened to lose that derogation, the sector itself asked for a phosphate reduction plan. LTO and NAYK let it get out of hand and then said: we do not want to lose that derogation, so come up with restrictive measures. I was just wondering if Mr Baudet knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u204	So you are actually saying that it has not been the European Union itself that started all this, but that it is the request of a number of sectors from the Netherlands. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u205	Not what it all started with. The Party for Animals believes that the Dutch government has an independent duty to protect nature and the environment. That is also stated in the Constitution. The Netherlands does not really do this and only wants to regulate it at European level. Then that has happened, then the Netherlands also has an exception to those European rules and then you have to follow them a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u206	That is precisely the subject of today's debate. There are many ways to interpret such a directive. I'll explain that in a moment in my story. The Belgians charge a lower price for a cow, the Germans measure phosphate at a different depth and so on. The Netherlands is doing exactly the same thing as causing maximum damage to our farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u207	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u208	I imagine we're going to hear more of this kind of claims in the argument, but the fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u209	You bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u210	The Netherlands has an exception to those European rules, that derogation. There were farmers who asked the Chamber to come up with measures when the milk quota fell because they feared that they would lose the derogation. There were farmers who asked, but the Chamber did not listen. Then things got out of hand as predicted and asked the whole sector: ah, do less phosphate anyway, because we would like to keep that derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u211	So it's about nothing but consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u212	I would like Mr Baudet to acknowledge this in any case. If it's new to him, okay, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u213	What you are now saying is about consistency with existing regulations and the conditions under which derogations or dispensations are granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u214	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u215	So. In the Netherlands you have to pay €6,000 per cow. Farmers who have expanded their business before 2018 are now in serious trouble because they are suddenly not allowed to keep the number of cows on which they have set up their business. They've made all kinds of investments, and they can't repay them now with returns. This has led to enormous problems and even some suicides. It's a very tragic story. As I have just mentioned in the brief interruption with Mrs Ouwehand: The Netherlands is, as always, much stricter than our neighbouring countries when applying the rules. Belgium and Germany are bound by the same EU directives as the Netherlands, but create all kinds of space for their farmers by smartly implementing those rules, to those directives. For example, phosphate in Germany is measured at a depth of 1.5 meters, while in the Netherlands it is measured at a depth of 15 centimeters, where of course you will find much more phosphate. And according to the Belgian calculation method, a cow emits 10% less phosphate than the same Dutch cow, which means that Belgian farmers need much less phosphate rights per cow. This could also be done in the Netherlands. It would give our farmers so much space, but the minister doesn't. The same applies to the recently manufactured nitrogen crisis. A decision by the Council of State in May 2019 resulted in 18,000 construction projects falling apart, worth a total of 14 billion euros. Farmers are no longer able to expand their farms and cows are no longer allowed to enter pastures in many places. The whole country's standing still to a large extent. Old-VVD Minister Remkes was instructed to come up with a solution, but did the opposite. Two weeks ago he presented a report with the main proposals: 1. lowering the speed limit on motorways in the Netherlands and 2. drastically reducing the livestock. Although Minister Schouten said to those 10,000 farmers on the Malieveld that the livestock would not be halved, she announced only a few days later that Remkes would take over the draconian advice and clean up farms. This means reducing livestock, losing many jobs and probably bankruptcy of many farms. Within one day, the first highways were also stripped of 130 kilometers of signs. That huge sense of freedom that you can have when you finally get to drive at a normal speed: away! With a blazing rush the farmers are bullied away and their precious land is probably used for wind turbines, useless solar panels and biomass forests. Cynic policy of this cabinet, which destroys our beautiful country, our fantastic agricultural sector and our delicious livestock. Because there is no nitrogen crisis at all! The nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands have been sinking for decades, seen here in the graph that I am holding up. Critics say this decline has stagnated in recent years...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u216	Mr Baudet has written a fine PhD research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u218	It didn't go well, I understand. But when accepting the doctorate in Leiden, the oldest university in the Netherlands, you also made a promise, a promise to the truth. You've been a climate denier before. You were also a phosphate explorer, and now you're also a nitrogen explorer. What else are you gonna deny about what you're not exactly convenient for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u219	I don't deny there's such a thing as a climate. I just don't think it's gonna change dramatically. I don't think it's human to the extent it changes. Thirdly, I do not think that the kind of measures that we want to take now is, in one way or another, useful or useful. But I'm not denying the existence of the climate. I think there is climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u220	He's a climate crisis denier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u221	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u222	But you do absolutely no justice to the truth, which you have promised. In fact, you should turn in your bul and you do not do justice to the farmers or nature either. And you say you'll stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u223	A little fact-free comment, huh, and then without a question. I can't really do anything with it, so I'm just gonna go on with my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u224	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u225	Critics say that this decline has stagnated in recent years, but recently research by the Mesdag Fund showed that RIVM may use impure measurement methods to reach that conclusion. The two main measuring points, which now indicate a slight increase in ammonia emissions, are located above a sewer well and next to a chicken farm. That's like measuring Schiphol's noise in an airplane engine. In addition, RIVM uses bizarre statistical standards. In a normal study, and every scientist will confirm this, something is only assumed when there is at least 90%, 95% certainty. RIVM, on the other hand, uses the unparalleled low value of 44% certainty to achieve the desired result of a slight increase in ammonia emissions. It's not being tested either. No tests are being carried out on the spot to see if these models are actually right. It's a totally fake problem. And even more fundamental: there is no way that there is any more emissions, and so on, of a natural problem or an environmental problem. The Dutch threshold for the authorisation obligation is 0,05 mol nitrogen per hectare. That's about as much as in a package of Pokon plant nutrition. Our rules are so strict: 0.05 moles per hectare, while in Germany it is 7 moles per hectare. The Netherlands is 140 times stricter than our neighbour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u226	You can discuss whether the measurements are good and whether the emission rates are good, but you can also look at the effects in nature. When Mr Baudet says that things are not bad at all, I wonder what his explanation is that we have been warned by scientists on the Veluwe River by scientists that the bees still have so little lime, that the chicks in the nest already break their legs and die. This has to do with the acidification of nature due to ammonia. That's what they say. Mr Baudet says that this is not the case at all and that nature is not bad. But what is his explanation that in the Netherlands there are so few limes that either they break their legs in the nest, or they don't even have enough lime to make the egg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u227	This is a very specific question that I don't have that one-two-three answers to, but I'm offering solace. I am about to propose a hearing on nitrogen, with various experts, before next Thursday's debate. Then this will also be discussed. We know that total emissions of active nitrogen compounds have been falling for decades. It's getting much lower. The second thing we know is that these substances are basically good for nature. It's fertilization. It's Pokon. It creates growth, and so on. We also know that some, quite specific, problems can occur here and there. I do not know the exact details of what you are talking about, but if we zoom in on that, I have no doubt that we can find a solution. I don't think you should put the whole country down to save those few little bugs that are in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u228	It's just an example. I'm asking, apart from any discussion you could have about measuring and whether emissions have fallen: I'm sure they have, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u229	Huge. I've got the chart right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u230	... nature suffers from accumulation. I'm a little afraid Mr Baudet doesn't quite know that. Once ammonia has been knocked down in nature, you can't just get it out. If there is even more ammonia, even if it is perhaps less than before, this has an effect. So you could also look at the effects in nature. For example, grasses do much better on those ammonia than species we might have had to protect as the Netherlands. I wonder if Mr Baudet is prepared to look at the effects in nature and perhaps question his point, because the scientific evidence we see in nature does not exactly match his argument that nature is not at all bad at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u231	If Mrs Ouwehand is also prepared to revise her statements. There may be certain species of mosses or certain species of plants that are slightly less common in the Netherlands. But if you go 150 kilometers across the border to the east, you have a lot of that kind of mosses, plants or animals there. You have to look at it in a big perspective. Is it really a problem for nature, or does there exist a certain romanticized and fixed picture of how it should be and should remain forever and that if anything changes, then immediately the whole economy must be on the shovel? Let us discuss this at length at that hearing, assuming that you will also support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u232	Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u233	Thank you. I find it really bizarre that in the Netherlands, not only in terms of phosphate, but also in terms of nitrogen, we apply infinitely stricter standards than in our neighbouring countries, for example in Germany. I do not think that can be explained, Mrs Schouten. I find that really incredibly irrational policy, which is disastrous for our economy and what is disastrous for our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u234	Mrs. Schouten is a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u235	Yeah, she's a minister, too. Mr. Chairman. Surely it cannot be that we are making such far-reaching decisions, such as restricting livestock and abruptly lowering the maximum speed, if it is possible, most likely, based on statistical quackery? What needs to be done now is to align the Dutch regulations with the German ones. That is why I make an urgent appeal to Minister Schouten. It does not even require a legislative change, but it is a matter of political will. The Cabinet can now decide to amend the Nature Protection Decision. Then the whole of the Netherlands can go further: then the 18,000 construction projects can start again, then farmers can expand again, then cows can go back into the meadow, then the livestock doesn't have to be halved and then the speed doesn't have to go down anywhere. To support this, I would like to organise a hearing with RIVM, the Mesdagfonds and several other independent parties as soon as possible. This must be done before next Thursday's debate on nitrogen. I have a list of names. I am about to launch an e-mail procedure to set up an additional committee meeting early tomorrow morning, so that we can make this clear next week with different stories, expertise and counter-expertise. Hopefully, on the basis of that information, a motion to amend those nitrogen standards that we shall be tabling in that debate will be supported by the House. Because it is an administrative problem, an accounting problem that is destroying the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u236	We're not gonna have a fraternity here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u237	My friend from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u238	Is that mutual? I don't know. But we're not going to talk about that hearing here, because that discussion really belongs on the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u239	We've already had a hearing. Maybe it's good to have a look back. That also helps a bit for the factual underpinning of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u240	Not about these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u241	We're not gonna talk about the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u242	That's just not true. It's always said, but it's not. It's a smokescreen. If you'd been promoted, you'd have to turn in your bul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u243	We're not gonna talk about the hearing. I just heard from the clerks that there's an extra procedural meeting tomorrow. The hearing on the subject we are discussing today will be discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u244	I got a PhD at Leiden University, but it doesn't matter. It's also about health. What I completely miss in Mr Baudet's speech is that published scientific research shows that in the Netherlands 50 people with asthma are added every day due to excessive nitrogen emissions. They live near highways. I can tell you that one in five children living near a highway or other industrial facility has difficulty breathing and impaired heart function. You can't ignore that with these wild plans, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u245	Indeed, I find these figures highly questionable. I have serious doubts about that. That is why it is very important to keep all these things under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u246	It has been published in scientific, peer-reviewed journals. I do not know where Mr Baudet gets the guts to doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u247	That's exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u248	Again, you made a vow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u249	That shit about it. Each time we discuss the climate, the environment, etc., we discuss alarmist stories, and there is a lot to be said about them. 97% of science says this and that, but none of that turns out to be true. Alarmist conclusions are all being drawn. There are all causalities that are very questionable. All vague diseases are added which cannot be identified in a one-on-one framework at all. I understand very well that in the big project, the big climate-religious project, it all comes in handy and that pointing to a peer review should close the discussion in the eyes of the advocates of all of this, but we simply do not agree with that. We continue to think critically ourselves. That has nothing to do with ignoring facts and turning in "unscientific" and "bul" and all that bullshit you come up with. It's just about looking critical: guys, what do we really know? On what basis are we now shutting down half the economy of the Netherlands? Or should we just be fooled by interests that very often also finance certain research, by magazines that have long ceased to be politically neutral? It is not only our right, but it is our duty to look critically at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u250	Finally, Mr De Groot. Then I will go to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u251	One comment. It is our duty to ensure public health. One in five kids is a lot to me. Fifty asthma patients a day is a lot to me. Asthma is not a vague disease. You know, that could really be a real pain in the ass. Mr Baudet has a responsibility in this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u252	Perhaps Mr Baudet can help me. On page 9 of the letter sent by the cabinet last Friday, the German situation is discussed. There is a broader review framework. There are often large distances between the source and nature reserves. Then I will quote the following sentence: "These broader review frameworks have not been maintained in the Netherlands in the past. The 2008 ammonia review framework has proved legally unsustainable. This was the reason to develop the PAS." Could Mr Baudet help me get through this legally, or around it, if he likes to hear it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u253	I didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u254	Mind if I finish? Mr Baudet is proposing to go back to German standards. That sounds nice, but on the basis of this letter, it can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u255	What's that "not holding up" got to do with? You're quoting page 9. Is that gonna be explained?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u256	That is not explained here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u257	Aha.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u258	If you had looked into it, you would know that the judge was in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u259	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u260	As a result, the Programme Approach Nitrogen has been developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u261	We are not talking about the ruling of the Council of State of May six months ago, but about that, so we are talking about the higher standards for nitrogen. You're saying that didn't last. On what grounds? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u262	That's what the judge said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u263	Yes, a judge indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u264	In 2008 it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u265	A judge speaks right on the basis of things. On what grounds? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u266	Don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u267	Do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u268	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u269	But does he know that? He doesn't know. These have been our own standards. That's the one we want to adapt. You think you got me with some letter and a page and all, but it's just not at all the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u270	If you ask a question, it is also useful for Mr Geurts to have the opportunity to say something. If they talk through it, no one can follow. Mr. Geurts, would you like to say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u271	I think this problem is so serious that it is not my concern at all to catch Mr Baudet or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u272	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u273	If Mr Baudet can think with me how we can deal with this, I am glad to hear it. But the cabinet tells us that what Mr Baudet wants cannot be done, because it was already shot down in 2008. That is the fact, I say to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u274	No. What has been fired is the way in which we granted the nitrogen permits at the time, but you can still simply amend the Nature Protection Decision. You can just change the standards that are there. What we do in the Netherlands is apply very strict standards and then grant a lot of people exceptions. It is stipulated that this is not in line with the European model, but you can simply raise that standard as is happening in our neighbouring countries. There is no obstacle whatsoever to this from European law and not from Dutch law. The Minister can do that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u275	Finally, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u276	This is so simplistic. I am really looking for a solution to this situation with Mr Baudet. We are dealing with a ruling from the European Court of Justice. Are we just gonna ignore it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u277	The ruling of the European Court of Justice is based on the methodology, not on the standard itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u278	Just a moment about RIVM, because Mr Baudet, like some others in this Chamber, said that he had doubts about the figures. At least that's how I understood him. At the same time he uses a graph in which he shows that the nitrogen depositions are going down, which I think is based on figures from the same RIVM. Are these figures or can't be trusted, is actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u279	You can't say that if one thing isn't right, everything isn't right. By the way, the source is PBL in this case. Nor can you say that, at the moment when they are using dubious measurement methods, all the data related to this situation are wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u280	There is one measurement network in the Netherlands when it comes to nitrogen. This is performed by both Wageningen Research and RIVM. This produces the figures on nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands. It's been for years. You can insist that that's not right, but then it's not right. You can't say it's right when it suits me, but if it doesn't suit me, I don't trust the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u281	We're seeing a trend that's dropping, I'd like to believe that. Only, what you cannot say is that the rather subtle change that is observed is statistically relevant enough to speak of a crisis immediately and to change the policy. Then you're gonna have to take the test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u282	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u283	In fact, Mr Baudet says: I believe the figures when they go down, which suits me, but I don't believe them anymore when they stay the same, because that doesn't suit me. I don't think that's a good way to look at numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u284	I doubt the figures at a time when a slight change in them has a dramatic effect on policy. Then I say, guys, is this based on thorough investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u285	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u286	I want to say one last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u287	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u288	We are living in an era in which the touch with the Earth is likely to be lost across the board. Modern man lives in an uprooted world on the umpteenth floor of characterless high-rise building. We get our plastic packed piece of filet from the shelves of the supermarket without recognizing the proudly cackling chicken. Without feeling with seasons pass us through the days from office buildings with windows that can't even open. The peasantry forms our connection to the earth, to the seasons and to the animals. The farmers provide the most beautiful interpretation of the landscape: animals in the meadow, crops that rise and bloom, bees and butterflies that cause cross-pollination. It is a landscape that we can already find in paintings by Frans Hals and Vincent van Gogh. It is the Netherlands that we know and associate with our youth and our history. We stand up for those farmers, for the animals, for the nature and the agricultural sector of our beautiful home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u289	Then very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u290	I was wondering if Mr Baudet would know how old that proudly cackling chicken was in the Dutch livestock sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u291	It depends a little bit. I went to visit a chicken farmer a while ago, and she let it get a little older. It changes a lot, it varies from a week or six to a month or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u292	Exactly. A six-week chicken is actually another chick. It would be nice if Mr Baudet were honest and transparent about that. When people buy chicken fillet, that nine out of ten times comes from a meat chick that's been bred to look like a obesity chicken within six weeks. I don't think you should throw people in the eye by talking about proudly cackling chickens, because the chickens in the Dutch poultry sector, the meat chick industry, are not proud of anything and are very heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u293	There are excesses and there are situations in the bio-industry that we need to address. Animal welfare has to meet certain standards, but the situation of Dutch livestock has improved enormously lately and is among the best in the world. One of the things in which the Animal Party and the Democracy Forum stand side by side is to protect our market from products from, for example, Ukraine or later Mexico, which can enter our market through the controversial CETA Convention. The CDA is in favour of that. Now that's really bad. That's really dangerous. We can protect much better from our Dutch position, from the Dutch livestock, than now throw away the chicken with the bath water.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u294	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u295	Very briefly. We agree on the trade agreements, but if Mr Baudet claims here that it has become much better for the animals in the Dutch livestock sector, then I challenge him to come up with evidence next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u296	Or we could organize a work visit sometime, which I'd love to go with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u297	Yes. I think you've agreed on a lot of work visits in this room. It's getting crowded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u298	I think it is important to conduct politics outside Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u299	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u300	... and really look into society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u301	It seems as if Mr Baudet is no longer in favour of trade agreements, but well, that aside, because that is not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u302	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u303	My question is whether Mr Baudet will be present tomorrow afternoon or tomorrow evening and night at the debate, including the proposal made by Mr Baudet. Because I didn't hear a question from the minister. Perhaps Mr Baudet would like to put a question to the Minister about the German situation. We can do this tomorrow night and night, together with the Minister. For what is now lying is very thin, I say to Mr Baudet. So I'd like to have it deepened, see if it's a passable way to get out of the nitrogen debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u304	The answer to this question is in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u305	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u306	Mr President, I have not heard a question from Mr Baudet to the Minister. In his contribution, Mr Baudet did not ask the Minister about the German situation and whether it was applicable in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u307	I've made an appeal to the Minister. She is quite free to interpret that call as a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u308	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-8.u309	I'll take a look at the schedule, although that's constantly changing, because we'll have a lot of VAOs tomorrow. But at least tomorrow afternoon we will continue to deal with the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I thank the Members of Parliament, thank the Minister and suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m.
