ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the proposal of the Rijkswet of members Sjoerdsma, Asscher, Van Otterloo, Van Wijngaarden and Van Ojik concerning rules on the creation of temporary exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, i.e. the Rijkswet containment effect Brexit. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in Box K by Mrs Floor van der Zee, D66 policy officer, and Mr Laurens Brouwer, who works at the Ministry of Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. It acts as an adviser to the Chamber when examining this initiative proposal and will also address the Chamber after the initiators. On 9 October the first term of office took place. Today, the first-term answer and the second-term answer are discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u2	I give the floor on behalf of the authors to Mr Sjoerdsma. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is special to be allowed to speak as a Member of Parliament from box K. It is also a great honour to be able to do so on behalf of the co-subscribers, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Van Wijngaarden, who unfortunately opt out because of illness. It is an honor, and it may be something to be proud of, but I think I speak for all of us when I say that we would rather not have been here today, that we would rather not have had this debate, that we would rather not have needed this emergency law and that we would all have preferred that the Brexit had not taken place at all. But now that it is and now that the chance of a no-dealbrexit is still urgent and hanging over the market, our law is needed, much needed even, to help the Dutch in the UK. That is also why we are here today with complete conviction. As initiators, we owe a great deal of thanks to a number of people, whom I would like to mention briefly prior to our response. These include the interest association of Europeans in the UK, the3million, with special thanks to Monique Hawkins, Hedwig Hegtermans, Nicole Wevers and all the others who helped us. Of course also thanks to Laurens Brouwer and Edwin Brewer of the Ministry of Justice and Security, who have supported us with valuable advice, our own Bureau of Legislation and finally, of course, Floor van der Zee and Carsten Zwaaneveld for all the work behind the scenes. Mr. Chairman. I would also, of course, like to thank all my colleagues in the Chamber for their contributions. At some parties, PvdA, GroenLinks, VVD, 50PLUS and D66, I already tasted full support. That may not surprise you very much, given the authors of this bill. A number of parties outside this Chamber have already given their support, for which I am grateful to them. For example, I tasted a constructive attitude in the SP. I am very grateful for that too. Others made us part of their personal struggle. I understand that very well. But above all, everyone had legitimate questions. Today I am going to try to answer these questions as well as possible in order to remove any concerns and to draw the last doubters over the line. We have chosen to speak on behalf of the co-subscribers. In order to be of service to the Chamber, I will complete the answer in cubes. First of all, I would like to take you with me in the interest and purpose of this emergency law and the choice we have made for dual nationality as a solution. Then I will deal with proportionality, the entry into force, the relationship with the coalition agreement, the provision of information under this law, and finally with some other questions. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my first block, about the importance of this law. Maybe first of all I should also mention the reason for this initiative law. On 23 June 2016, the British voted in a referendum for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. That was a turning point in history, with still unclear consequences at that time. The whole Brexit process brought chaos. Two British prime ministers had to clear the field. You would almost call it a soap opera with a daily cliff hanger, if it were not that the consequences are so dramatic for so many. After the UK announced its intention to leave the European Union, lengthy negotiations on the exit agreement followed to ensure that the Brexit would be as orderly as possible and to regulate that rights and obligations would be well anchored. In November 2018, these negotiations actually resulted in a exit agreement, but that was unfortunately rejected by the British Parliament on 15 January of this year. As a result, the Netherlands and other European Member States had to prepare for the increasing risk of a no-dealbrexit. From customs personnel to medical supplies, from social security to health insurance: virtually all emergency measures have already been discussed between the Cabinet and the Chamber. However, the Brexit Collecting Act did not provide a solution for, for example, the right of residence, the right to vote, the right to return and family reunification and matters such as study costs for Dutch people in the UK. This puts the 100,000 Dutch people in the UK between shore and ship, despite the government's promise in the coalition agreement to pay special attention to them. The future of these people who built their lives on that is at stake at a no-dealbrexit. The uncertainty gnaws at many. The desperation is growing. They are faced with the choice of either to accept British nationality to ensure their stay in the UK and thus lose their Dutch nationality with all the consequences of that, or to retain their Dutch nationality, with which their future in the UK is not at all certain. Mr Verhoeven mentioned that choice between headache and abdominal pain. That's a choice you don't want to do to people. As Dutch political parties, therefore, we take responsibility, where British political parties unfortunately fail to do so. This is particularly important because we, as well as the colourful collection of parties, think differently about the solution offered here: double nationality. Mr Mulder of the VVD said it nicely. He said: instead of wrestling, we went to engage with the initiators. I'll get back to you on that. What binds us is our belief, from left to right, that we must provide a solution to the uncertainty and problems that Dutch people in the UK face in a no-deal. We want to do this by giving them the opportunity, under clear conditions, to accept British nationality without losing Dutch nationality. This is how we offer their security and also offer them perspective. For Dutch people who have already acquired British nationality after the Brexireferendum and have had to give up the Dutch nationality for this purpose, an option right is applicable which allows them to regain Dutch citizenship. We do that because this is a unique situation and because it is a highly defined group. Mrs Leijten rightly says that civil rights are a political game in the negotiations on the Brexit. She called the citizens the children in a fight divorce. I find that a striking comparison. I therefore see this law as a continuation of good cooperation throughout the Chamber to ensure civil rights. I therefore hope that at the end of this debate we will be able to find the SP on our side. Mr. Chairman. There is still no certainty that the no-dealbrexit is off the table. Of course, the British Government made another deal with the European Union between the time of the Chamber's contribution a few weeks ago and this response. That's good news. The same applies to the fact that in principle the House of Commons voted by a majority in favour of serious consideration of this deal. But everyone who has followed the debate in the House of Commons over the last few days and also today knows that it is too premature to breathe relievedly. It is still unclear whether, when and how the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. The December elections will be decisive. It is now clear that the House of Commons has decided that on Friday 13 December we will know who the new Prime Minister will be in the UK. I hope that's not an ominous sign. The safety net offered by our Brexit Emergency Act is therefore still necessary. Mr President, then the second block. I was just thinking about the special cooperation between these parties and the unique nature of this law. I'd like to explain that further. The initiators differ on the desirability of having dual nationalities. Some of us are in favour of the possibility for everyone to have a dual nationality, while others regard single nationality as a benchmark. Nevertheless, for Dutch people in the UK, we have sought the solution in nationality law. This is explained by the simple fact that there was no other solution to unilaterally protect the Dutch in the United Kingdom from the negative effects of the Brexit. We've been looking for another solution for a long time, but we haven't found it. Is that opportunistic, as Mrs Van Toorenburg said? I'd say not, because it's necessary. It goes beyond party politics, because we want to prevent the Dutch from being crushed. And then, I think, need breaks the law. Mrs Leijten said that very nicely in the last debate. The Brexit is unique, because it changes the living and living conditions of Dutch people in the UK unexpectedly, heavily and negatively, without these Dutch having influenced this decision. This unique situation requires a unique treatment. It is therefore an exception for a very specific, clearly defined group of people. That's why we firmly framed this law. The Act applies only to Dutch nationals who already resided in the United Kingdom for the purposes of the Brexireféendum and who had continuous main residence in the UK between 23 June 2016 until the date of acquisition of British nationality. Mrs Leijten asked here whether this law is an advocacy to more. I hope she has just implicitly heard it, and I will now say explicitly that the answer to that is: no, this is not an oppaign to anymore. This situation is unique. This cooperation is also unique in that sense. I'm not alone in that. Nor does the Council of State see any precedent in this law. Only when another European country suddenly wants to leave the European Union can I imagine that. If, for example, hypothetically, Spain would suddenly want to leave in such a way that the Dutch on the spot suffer in a way that is happening in Britain, so that they have not had any influence on the decision, I can imagine that this law has a precedent effect. I also think that all the initiators would once again and with some enthusiasm support a similar law to try to create an exception. I am also saying this in the direction of Mrs Kuik, who perhaps would have preferred to have seen this law create a prelude to the extension of dual nationality. I understand that from a political point of view, but that is not the case in this case. Mrs Kuik also asked how other Member States facing the same problem will solve this. Germany was the first country to grant dual nationality to Germans in the United Kingdom at the time of the Brexit negotiations. The German example was therefore an important source of inspiration for us in this law. By the way, more countries followed. For example, even the primordial conservative Austria and Slovakia decided to allow double nationality in the case of a no-dealbrexit. This is, of course, independent of the fact that several European Member States, in fact by far the majority, now have the possibility of dual nationality and therefore do not even experience this problem at all. Mr. Chairman. The third block touches on the second, the comments of the Council of State. Mrs Van Toorenburg supported the view of the Council of State that the solution offered would not be proportionate. I partly understand that reasoning. Nor would we have liked to have found the solution in nationality law. As we said in our response to the Council of State and, moreover, to the many questions put by the CDA in the written round, we would have preferred nothing more than to find a less far-reaching solution. But neither the CDA nor the Council of State nor other experts have provided an alternative solution that we have overlooked. In that light, Mrs Van Toorenburg uttered some harsh words, I think. She said that we should "don't sit back and watch people be ground." That makes us unabated on this road. That also means that I have the hope that Mrs Van Toorenburg, even though she is not here today, despite her struggle with the chosen solution, is prepared to join us for the sake of the Dutch in the United Kingdom. Because the alternative is that you choose not to do anything for them. Ma'am... Excuse me. Mr President, that would be mortal and mortal sin. Mr. Chairman. The fourth block deals with questions about the entry into force of the law. Mrs. Kuik asked if the law will come into force if there is no Brexit. That will not be the case. This law explicitly monitors a Brexit with a no-deal scenario. More specifically, "An entry into force decision is taken when the UK leaves the European Union and no agreement has been reached in which the rights of Dutch people in the UK are sufficiently guaranteed." In this case, Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the concept of "sufficient" and who would determine that. It argued that the term "sufficient" leaves some discretion. That also relates to Mrs Leijten's question. She asked what would happen if an agreement were reached in which the civil rights agreements were not in line with the provisions of this bill. We have stated that the measure for sufficient or not is the exit agreement as it was concluded at the time by the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Mrs May. What is regulated in it for civil rights is the lower limit for what is sufficient guarantee. If it comes under this heading, then that assessment will be with the Cabinet in due course, then this law will apply. Related to this, Mrs Leijten asked about the speed with which this law could enter into force. Although the hard deadline of 31 October no longer hangs over us like a heavy one from Damocles, which is fortunate enough to have been postponed by the European Union until the end of January of next year, we must note that the decision of today's House of Commons will lead to elections and that the period between those elections and the deadline of the European Union will be very short again and that the agreement concluded between the Chamber of Commons and this response has only been approved by the House of Commons for the following discussion. So that means it gives us a little more air but a no-deal, a deal or delay, anything is still possible. So we, as proposers, will make every effort to find a majority for this law as soon as possible in this Chamber and hopefully also in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u4	Thank you to Mr Sjoerdsma for the answers on the exit agreement, which is actually the May deal with the European Union. Now Johnson has negotiated a new deal. It's 95% the same. What exactly is Mr Sjoerdsma's assessment of civil rights? Has that point been taken over one-on-one and is it going to cross the Irish border or are there still some hooks and eyes attached to it? For example, with regard to working conditions and such things, some changes have of course been made in terms of the level playing field when compared to the May agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u5	That's right. Things have indeed changed that see on the Northern Irish border and on the backstop. Cases have also been removed from the legislative text and moved to the political declaration on labour rights in the United Kingdom. This applies not only to the Dutch in the UK, but to all the British. I do not know whether I can speak on behalf of all the initiators, but I can imagine that Mrs Leijten's party, for example, finds it regrettable that this has happened. Looking at civil rights, I have to say that Prime Minister Johnson's deal is almost equivalent to that of Mrs May. So if this deal were to be approved by the House of Commons and ultimately by the House of Lords, that would be sufficient. However, in the end, that assessment is, of course, with the Cabinet in such a situation. There are also a number of serious concerns. I mention, for example, the fact that deportation threatens EU citizens when their registration has not been adequately dealt with in time or not. This is not covered by the exit agreement that Mrs May has concluded with the European Union, but also by Mr Johnson's agreement, which remains a major concern. The fifth block is the relationship with the coalition agreement. Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke about the passage in the government agreement on the modernisation of nationality law. Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke explicitly about the second part of it, namely a moment of choice for people of dual nationality in the second generation. However, as a good understander of the coalition agreement, I would also like to draw Mrs Van Toorenburg's attention to the first part of that passage on nationality law, which says that it is precisely the first generation of immigrants and immigrants who have the opportunity to take on double nationality that is being extended. This is in line with the proposal of these initiators. I therefore agree with Mr Verhoeven's comment, which states that if this first passage had already been implemented by the cabinet, this proposal would not have been necessary, which would have saved a lot of work. Mrs Kuik led a question to the Secretary of State. Of course, I am very curious to know what she thinks about this. The sixth block is the provision of information following this law. Ms Özütok also asked about the capacity at embassies and consulates for the entry into force of this law. We do not expect that the introduction of this law will require or require additional capacity at the Dutch embassies or consulates in the United Kingdom, because we expect that the Dutch will apply for British nationality and that the British authorities may also need additional capacity to process these applications. Something else lies with those who would like to use the option scheme to get back Dutch nationality. Those are the people who have already applied for British nationality after the referendum and before the entry into force of this law and for that reason have given up the Dutch. Of course, this requires work from the Dutch embassy, but our expectation is that, as far as possible, this is in line with the existing procedure, this will lead to no or perhaps only limited capacity to process it. So that shouldn't be a problem. It is, of course, very important to provide information about this law. Mr Mulder of the VVD also asked the Secretary of State. I know that many Dutch people in the United Kingdom are following this initiative law, but I agree with him that it is very important that all Dutch people in the United Kingdom should be able to learn about the possibility of this emergency law in due course. In the past, we have seen Dutch people in the foreign world face very far-reaching and negative consequences with regard to their nationality, due to a lack of public communication. We must prevent a repetition of that. Anyway, we can't settle that by law. I hope the Secretary of State will take care of that in due course. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two remaining questions. Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned in her struggle that this law could "just bring 30,000 Somalis back to the Netherlands." I hope to help her by saying that these are people who already have Dutch nationality. They can therefore return to the Netherlands at this time and actually at any time they wish. That's already happening because of the brexitchaos. The aim is precisely that the Dutch who live and want to stay in the UK can do so, by allowing them British nationality in addition to Dutch nationality. As far as Mrs Van Toorenburg's concerns are justified, the opposite is true, as far as we are concerned: with this law, the Dutch will want to stay in the United Kingdom, including the Somali Dutch. In this context, Mrs Özütok asked whether we expect more people to move back to the Netherlands through the Brexit. By the Brexit? Yes. But we hope that with this law Dutch people will choose not to move back to the Netherlands, because they won't have to. They are given the opportunity to continue the life built up there. They are no longer dependent on the whimsy of British politics and the risk of a no-dealbrexit. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Verhoeven asked what more we can do for British people in the Netherlands. I think that is a fair question, because this group of people is still in uncertainty. Fortunately, the government has already been inclined towards these people, including a transitional regime of 15 months. In addition, an arrangement has been made for British citizens under almost equal conditions as those already in force in Union law. It is true that in the Netherlands a British citizen loses his or her right to return after a period of only six months. This is problematic in some cases. It is good to say that British people still have families in the United Kingdom, and that is why they want to take care of these relatives in the event of illness or other personal cases, for example, and therefore want to stay in the UK for more than six months. They may also have to stay outside the Netherlands for example for study or work. That's worrying. I very much agree with Mr Verhoeven that this is not a desirable situation. I am therefore curious to hear what the Secretary of State says about this, but should the Chamber take the initiative to meet this group even further, I certainly encourage it. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply. I hope I've done justice to everyone's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u6	Thank you very much. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't speak in cubes. I have a brief general introduction, and then I will deal with the questions as they have been asked to me. In June 2016, the British voted by majority for the UK's exit from the European Union. Many of you regret this outcome with me, but at the same time it is a fact that we cannot ignore. Since then the route to an actual Brexit has been very difficult, with numerous bizarre plot twists. No scriptwriter could have thought of this in advance, is my assessment. There is still, to this day, no definitive clarity as to when and the conditions under which the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. I therefore understand all the unrest and uncertainty that the Brexit leads to among our compatriots who live and work in the United Kingdom. I therefore appreciate the efforts made by the initiators to prepare a legislative proposal aimed at putting an end to this uncertainty. My sincere congratulations for this, because an initiative-law proposal is certainly not an easy task. However, my appreciation of the initiative's efforts to prepare this legislative initiative does not mean that the cabinet also supports the initiative in substance. I'll get back to you on that. In short, the legislative proposal provides that the Dutch who were resident in the United Kingdom at the time of the Brexitrefendum may acquire British nationality while retaining Dutch citizenship in the case of a hard Brexit. It is also made possible for this group to regain Dutch citizenship if it has previously been lost because of the voluntary acquisition of British nationality. The Council of State objected to the bill. The legislative proposal means that a specific group of citizens can finally acquire a dual nationality where others are not allowed in principle. The Council of State refers to the principle of equality. The second point raised by the Council of State is that the problems of the Dutch in the United Kingdom are at the heart of the problem of residence law. In this context, the irreversible solution for this group is considered by the Council of State to be not proportionate. The cabinet endorses the criticism of the Council of State, with all due understanding for the Dutch in the United Kingdom who are affected by the Brexit. The proposal is at odds with the principle of equality. That is an important objection that the cabinet has. Moreover, nationality law is not the right instrument for resolving a right of residence issue. I would add that, even before the accession of the United Kingdom until then, the European Economic Community, in 1973, many Dutch people lived and worked in the United Kingdom under the rules at the time. We should not overestimate the problem either. About 100,000 Dutch live in the United Kingdom. However, a large part of this can already acquire a dual nationality under the current legislation, namely the Dutch who are married to a British citizen or a British citizen and the Dutch born in the United Kingdom. For the remaining group, it is important that there appears to be an overview of the situation, I would like to say that there is an exit agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union in which the right of residence of citizens is guaranteed. This has just been referred to by Mr Sjoerdsma. That is the proposal that has been accepted, the proposal of the former Prime Minister of England, May; the current proposal is 98% or 99% equal to it. In the event that there is a no-dealbrexit which cannot be ruled out, the UK Government has made provision for the right of residence of Union citizens and members of their families residing in the United Kingdom. In that case, they will be eligible for the so-called pre-setled status if they are in the UK for less than five years, or for the settled status if they are in the UK for five years or more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u8	I'm always very sensitive to people who have the ability to be empathetic, especially in politics. I hear the Secretary of State start with a lot of empathy for those hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who are in trouble. They come into trouble because of something they are not guilty of or responsible for, because they once decided to work there or fall in love or perhaps because they simply don't want or marry yet or have very liberal ideas. And I just heard the Secretary of State say that there are people who do have that possibility and it is a smaller group that may not be involved. I find it strange that the Secretary of State says: perhaps it is a matter of bad luck for tens of thousands of Dutch people. I find that a strange statement, although it sounds friendly from the Secretary of State. So I wonder: if the Secretary of State isn't for this, then what does she give these people to have a sense of certainty and to be able to lean on a Dutch government that is there to take good care of them? What exactly did you do to fulfill that empathy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u9	First of all, I didn't say it was bad luck. That sounds very unpleasant and I find it unpleasant to describe it as such. That is not the case. The European Union has negotiated with the British Government. A retirement agreement has been concluded. It has not been accepted by the British Parliament, by the way. We agree on that. That has just been mentioned. But a retirement agreement has been concluded and the Netherlands itself has a lot of bilateral contact with the English Government to ensure that the rights of the Dutch who live and work in England are guaranteed as much as possible. And that's that pre-setled status and the setled status. On that basis, I cannot say: it is bad luck. We say: there has been very good negotiations with the British Government to ensure that Dutch citizens are helped as best as possible in the case of a Brexit. I'm not talking about the no-dealbrexit; I'm talking about the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u10	If you decide to be empathic and then don't fill it in yourself, you say to people: you've had bad luck; I'm not going to do anything for you. I'm not gonna do the maximum, not even with the coalition agreement in hand. On the basis of that government agreement, you have the opportunity to express the right of nationality in order to extend the possibility of possession of several nationalities for the upcoming first-generation immigrants and immigrants. That's what the coalition agreement says. So you have an opportunity to use this proposal to say to all those Dutch people: I am a Secretary of State who not only understands your situation, but who also says 'you have no bad luck; even more, I have a government agreement in my hands and I am going to get to work'. So if you don't do anything, you're actually saying at the bottom of the line: bad luck, dear people: wrong decision made, left for the wrong country, picked the wrong job, fell in love with the wrong man or woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u11	Once again, I reject the word 'unfortunate'. I didn't use that word, and I'm not gonna use it. I must say, however, that the legislative proposal that could have been made on the basis of the coalition agreement that Mrs Belhaj just quoted has two sides. One side of that bill would have been that a dual nationality would be possible for the first generation immigrants and emigrants. But it is linked to this, and it should have been in the same legislative proposal that the second generation then has to make the choice. It's not like you could have done one half and the other half couldn't. And that's something that's a very complicated whole when you start thinking that you're gonna take the second generation away from nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u12	Finalizing, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u13	Complicated things are there to be solved. This is one of those situations where you have to think: you never thought of that together; what a coincidence that there are two comments in the coalition agreement. But you, as Secretary of State, like complex files and think: how am I going to arrange it for those Dutch? So then I have the next question. You can say that you don't see things going exactly well here and there, but I think that the 100,000 people who are listening to you now really don't get it at all. Is it really not possible for the Secretary of State to say the following? "Yes, I understand what the Council of State has said, but I also understand what the Chamber thinks. You know what? I think it's important that these people aren't unlucky. I think it is important that these people are heard by the Dutch government." Where do you see the possibility of letting these people just retain their nationality, not letting them get into such trouble and be as concerned as they are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u14	Again, I do have empathy for those people. At the same time, however, it is up to the Cabinet to keep an eye on who we make laws and regulations for. We make laws and regulations for all citizens, for the public good. This means that we must also pay close attention to the principle of equality. The principle of equality is an incredibly important principle. There are many more Dutch people who live and work in foreign countries and who would also very much like to have a dual nationality, that is to say another nationality while retaining Dutch nationality. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap does not offer this possibility. In this case, the cabinet says that the principle of equality also implies that we legislate for all Dutch citizens. You can't just say that group might be a little more pathetic than the other group, and we have to make a deviation in that. This is the choice the cabinet makes. The principle of equality is really leading in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u15	You may have one more time, Mrs Belhaj, but I had already said "rounding." This is really the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u16	The principle of equality is, of course, important. For me, this whole restriction of nationality would not have been necessary, but it is important for certain parties. At the same time, however, it is acidic that a group should now fall victim to something that is not necessary at all, especially since you are referring to a so-called precedent. You said at the beginning of your story that you support many things from the Council of State. However, you do not agree that the Council of State has indicated that there is no precedent here. This is a unique situation that requires and offers opportunities for action, as the proposers say. So it would be nice for the Secretary of State to explain the precedent and the principle of equality she is now referring to, because that is not what the Council of State said. I wonder where you get that from, because you do not have to worry about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u17	Finally. As far as I can see, today we are discussing an initiative proposal by Mr Sjoerdsma and his colleagues to solve a problem for the 100,000 Dutch who live and work in England in the case of a hard Brexit. That bill's right here. It does not seem to me to make much sense to speculate on "if-then" and "why didn't you?" I've explained how things work. The Council of State's precedent is not so much on the principle of equality as on the fact that the Council of State points out that, should the legislative proposal be adopted, it cannot mean that it is a precedent for all kinds of other situations in which Dutch citizens live and work abroad and would therefore be entitled to a second nationality while retaining Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u18	There is an interruption by Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u19	The Secretary of State mentioned the so-called setled scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u20	Status.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u21	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u22	Settled status.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u23	Yes, exactly: the settled status. I assume she also spoke to representatives of the so-called 'the3million'. They are very concerned about that status. In the United Kingdom there has been the so-called Windrush Scandal, where British people with a Caribbean background have been unjustly deported, as it is said. Before that, a minister resigned in the United Kingdom. They're worried about passports getting lost so they don't have physical evidence. How does the Secretary of State qualify this scheme in the United Kingdom? How does it see the concerns of the Dutch in the United Kingdom about this scheme, given what I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u24	The contacts we have with the United Kingdom on pre-setled status and setled status give us confidence that this arrangement works well. That you don't have it in your pocket tomorrow, that's right. But that also applies to the acquisition of British nationality. You won't have it in your pocket tomorrow either, because that's what integration has to take place in England.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u25	The Secretary of State thinks the arrangement is sufficient. The Dutch in the United Kingdom could get away with this. That's what she says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u26	Settled status and pre-setled status, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u27	I'm afraid they don't agree with the Secretary of State, but it's good to change that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u28	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the pre-setled status and the settled status. This will enable the Dutch who live and work in the United Kingdom to continue their stay under conditions similar to the European Directive on Freedom of Movement and Residence (2004/38). This poses the problems of residence which the initiators point out. In addition, the Dutch are also free to apply for British nationality in the United Kingdom. This can be done after a year's stay based on the settled status. After a minimum of five years of settled status plus one year, British nationality can be applied for. The people who do so lose their Dutch citizenship in accordance with the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, as is the case for all Dutch people who wish to obtain another nationality, except for the exceptions that the law allows. It is not unimportant that the initiative legislative proposal for a very specific group of Dutch people makes a new exception to the main rule of the current Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. That is in line with what I have just said. There will be a new exception. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap assumes a single nationality. This single nationality is not at issue for the cabinet, not even in the coalition agreement, which only makes an exception for immigrants and first generation immigrants. For everyone else, the rules are tightened. In her first term, Mrs Kuik expressed the wish that this initiative legislative proposal would be an adaptation to double nationality as a standard. Maybe that's what she didn't mean. Maybe that's what she was afraid of. I say to her: if this law is passed, that is not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u30	This bill will be passed, I'll tell the Secretary of State. There is simply a majority of the House next to you, and your own party has signed this exception. It may also be the case that the SP and the CDA also go along. Then we look at a large majority in the House of Representatives. Then the proposers also look at a certain majority in the Upper Chamber. This raises the question: what is this Secretary of State going to do? Is she gonna set the countersign?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u31	I will tell you that the government takes the view that the proposal for an initiative is not a proportionate means of resolving the problems of Dutch residents in the United Kingdom and that, moreover, the need has not been demonstrated. This means that the cabinet is deceiving the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u32	That had already been made clear to me by what the Secretary of State has already said. But if the proposers get a law through the Second and First Chambers, then the government has to sign it. That's the contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u34	That's what I asked. Is the Secretary of State gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u35	Mr. Chairman. I am so State-owned that if both Chambers of the States-General adopt a law, I think that I should indeed grant that countersign. Then I'm not going to take some kind of action to hang on to something and say: we're not going to do that, because that would be very extreme to me. But I would like to raise this point in the debate we are having today, and I will, if the law is passed and dealt with in the First Chamber, also do so because the position of the Cabinet at the moment is that this initiative proposal is not a proportionate means of resolving the Dutch's problems of residence in the United Kingdom. I have and will have that position, but I see it under state law: if both Chambers of the States-General adopt a law, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u36	Thank you for that answer. It is indeed so state law. The Secretary of State is free to express the cabinet's position, but I would also like to point out to her that she is an advisor in this matter and that it does not really matter to the Chamber what the cabinet thinks. She has to advise if it's feasible. She says it regulates something right of residence and it may go too far. That is all right, but the fact that the government is not telling the truth, in general, the Chamber does not have much to say about it by means of an initiative law. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u37	As President, I can confirm that it is not customary for the cabinet to give an opinion on an initiative law in terms of whether or not it should be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u38	No, but... Mr President, I agree with you too, but I would like to clarify the position here. I am indeed an advisor to the initiators, but it is clear to show how the cabinet stands in this regard. I find it very difficult to show with woolly lyrics that we do not actually agree with it. I have now made that very clear. I think it would also be useful for everyone to know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u39	I'm still curious about one thing. What will the Secretary of State do for these people? I asked about that earlier. She says: I do not recommend this positively. In the end, it's a political decision whether you think it's reasonable enough not to just choke 100,000 people. But my question is this. The Secretary of State must have something in her head, some kind of ruse, how she's gonna meet these people in her own way? Then what is the intention of the Secretary of State if she says she does not give a positive opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u40	I think I have just answered that. We have very intensive bilateral contacts with the English to ensure that there are good rules for Dutch people who live and work in the UK, namely pre-setled and settled status. We have very good contacts about this and we have confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u41	Let me give a test of policy to reality: someone wants to take care of a sick person for nine months in the United Kingdom and is not here for more than six months. That's why that person loses his residence permit. Then what does the Secretary of State say to the people who are watching and want to know what the Secretary of State will do for such a person in such a situation? Can you be more specific about what that means to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u42	Then I come back to all the other Dutch people, who cannot have dual nationality and who may also have a family member in another country that they would like to take care of for a longer time or vice versa, who can not stay away for more than six months, because otherwise it is a problem for their residence status. In this respect, we must constantly monitor whether the rights of one group of Dutch people are equal to the rights of the other group of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u43	Finishing Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u44	So because these other people are so unlucky, these 100,000 people have to have that, too. This is a unique situation, isn't it? You're not going to compare two groups, when the situation is so unique, when people were just very abruptly confronted with a political situation in the United Kingdom at once? You are not saying that a Dutchman confronted with the Brexit in the United Kingdom is equal to a Dutchman somewhere in Brazil? That's not empathetic, is it? That's not constructive, is it? It's only social to say to those 100,000 people: I'm here for you too, you've just had bad luck and I'm gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u45	I think I have answered this sufficiently, but I would like to conclude by saying that we have very good bilateral contacts with the British Government, especially for the benefit of this group of people. Then I come to the specific questions that have been asked here. In part, I have already answered that, but I will end them neatly. Mrs Kuik asked why the cabinet did not make this bill itself. In particular, the Cabinet considers that a right of residence should not be resolved by nationality law. The settled status and pre-setled status introduced for Union citizens in the UK, the cabinet considers a good solution for the Dutch who live and work in the UK. Many other Member States of the European Union, unlike the Netherlands, allow double nationality without any doubt on flexible conditions. The author has just mentioned the example of Germany. Germany is not comparable to the Netherlands in that Germany grants dual nationality to Union citizens in all countries of the European Union including Switzerland. That is not quite comparable to the Dutch situation. I am not going to go into that now, but it is true that quite a lot of Member States of the European Union allow double nationality on flexible conditions. They obviously do not have a problem with their inhabitants in the UK in the event of a hard Brexit. Of course, by means of legislative changes, the Netherlands can make double nationality possible for everyone. This, however, means a fundamental change in the fundamentals of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, and that is not the case with the cabinet. The Netherlands is also still bound by Chapter 1 of the Convention on the limitation of cases of multiple nationality and military obligations in the case of multiple nationality, the 1963 Strasbourg Convention. The cabinet does not intend to change that. Mrs Özütok has also been asked to do so, as Mr Sjoerdsma has already referred to whether there is sufficient capacity at the embassy and consulates. The answer is yes. The passport procedure is already assessing whether British nationality has been acquired. In addition, it will also be examined whether the acquisition is the result of an application made between 23 June 2016 and 18 months after obtaining the settled status, and whether the person concerned has main residence in the United Kingdom. This assessment can be taken into account in the regular process. What are the implementation consequences for those covered by Article 2 of the Bill, the right of option? It is something of 300 Dutch who have used it. We do not foresee any problems with the capacity at the embassies and consulates. Mrs Özütok and Mr Mulder also asked how the Dutch in the United Kingdom are informed about this law. Mr Sjoerdsma has just referred to this. The information will be provided in the usual way via Rijksoverheid.nl and on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Dutch people abroad, Nederlandwereldwijd.nl. To be honest, I do not see any reason to launch, in addition to this, a specific government campaign for Dutch people who are currently resident in the United Kingdom. I trust they will keep themselves well informed of developments. The interest groups of Dutch people abroad are also very active in this area. Mrs Özütok also asked a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u46	As I said in the first term of this debate, we were recently with the House of Representatives in London and then at the Dutch embassy there spoke with staff and the ambassador. They themselves said that it was very difficult to reach older people in particular. Now the Secretary of State says that everything is going well. So I do not think it is going well, because that is what we hear on the spot in the United Kingdom. Will this Secretary of State, if this law is passed, also ensure that this law becomes known to the elderly in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u47	If the law is passed in both Chambers of the States-General, I will see if further information is needed. But there are clear channels and I have just mentioned them. Mrs Özütok asked what is being done in the field of information for Dutch citizens who are resident outside the European Union and who risk losing their Dutch nationality after ten years without being aware of it. In the second half of 2017, a very intensive information campaign was held on the loss of Dutch citizenship. I refer to the letter of 8 February 2017 from State Secretary Dijkhoff to the Dutch Parliament (33852, no. 52). Since the end of this information campaign, public information has been used in the usual way, namely via Rijksoverheid.nl. Information about Dutch nationality can be found on that website. There, for example, the following leaflets can be downloaded: "Can I automatically lose my Dutch nationality? And how do I prevent that?" and "Children and loss of Dutch nationality'. In addition, the interest organisations of Dutch people abroad are also active with information. Mrs Özütok also asked if I could respond to the renewed call by Dutch people abroad in the NRC on 8 October last to relax the policy on dual nationality. The call states as an argument that it is very useful to have a dual nationality in unforeseen circumstances. It's in that article in the NRC. I believe that this dual nationality is useful, but that is no reason for the cabinet to adapt the principles of the Rijkswet on Dutch citizenship. I must stress that it is not just a plan; it is the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. Every Dutchman is free to accept the nationality of his new home country. But if that is voluntary, then as a rule one loses the Dutchmanship. By Mr Verhoeven, who unfortunately is not here today, Mrs Belhaj is replacing him and Mrs Van Toorenburg has been asked how the government deals with British nationals in the Netherlands. Mr Verhoeven added the question of whether, for example, British nationals in the Netherlands could go to the United Kingdom for a longer period of time to provide a sick family member without losing their right of residence in the Netherlands. This has just been discussed. British nationals and their family members in the Netherlands are granted a transitional period of 15 months from the date of the Brexit in the case of a no-deal. To this end, a temporary residence permit has already been granted to them. I have been told by the IND that they are completely in order with these temporary residence permits for the British who are resident in the Netherlands. They may apply for a permanent residence permit during that 15-month period. The rights attached largely correspond to the rights of Union citizens in the Netherlands. British people who have stayed here for more than five years are eligible for an indefinite residence permit. A residence permit for an indefinite period may be withdrawn when the main residence is moved, but this is interpreted as staying for a period longer than six months outside the Netherlands. In my opinion, it is not justified to apply to British nationals a time limit which is different from the one applicable to other third-country nationals with an indefinite residence permit. Here again, therefore, the principle of equality is at stake. Mrs Leijten asked why, in the case of a no-dealbrexit, agreements are made on the continuity of financial products, but not on civil rights. Honestly, I wouldn't have liked to have had a Brexit at all. Hopefully a no-dealbrexit can be avoided, but that's not in our hands. As I said earlier, an interesting democratic procedure has been going on in the United Kingdom for several years. But now that the United Kingdom has made a final choice for a Brexit, a Brexit with good agreements on not only trade but also civil rights obviously has our strong preference. There is such a deal in the British Parliament and the British Parliament has agreed in principle, even though the procedure is still under way; you have been able to follow all this extensively. I hope a deal comes out eventually, and I'm not the only one hoping that. There are more people who hope that a deal will come out with which the United Kingdom will leave the European Union, no matter how much I regret that Brexit myself. If that deal is there, there are clear agreements in that civil rights deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u48	It wasn't entirely an answer to my question, so I'll try to ask him again. In case the British are knocked out without agreement, the Netherlands and the European Commission have made a continuity plan. "Contingency planning" is called; well, good. But they ensure that there is no shock for certain sectors, so for financial products and you name it all. But what if it's about medicine for people or people's civil rights? They don't make deals about that. My question was: what does the Secretary of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u49	I repeat what I said before. The cabinet has had extensive contact with the English government to ensure good status for Dutch people living and working in the UK. Those are the pre-setled status and the setled status. So that has been worked on and it has been ensured from both sides that a good situation can arise after a no-dealbrexit. And I can't tell you about the meds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u50	The Secretary of State will come back to that settled status. Fortunately, we in the Netherlands treat the British who are here better and with their right of residence than the British deal with the Dutch there. There's just a difference. A majority in the Chamber here has forced Minister Blok to do so. We have said: arrange something for these people here and at least let people in the Netherlands not suffer for this. But it is simply not true that the British are doing the same thing we are doing here for residents of the United Kingdom who are still staying here after a possible blow without agreement. We should've asked for a list like that: could you compare it? That would scare you, I'll tell the Secretary of State. There is a great deal of damage to this project, to trade, indeed to the financial sector and certainly to people. I find it hard to believe that we are always taking care of the financial sector, and that we are simply letting people be the child of the account. And I was expecting the Secretary of State to understand that irritation and move a little more towards this proposal. Because if you can accept those dirty financial products of the city one-on-one, then you can also just say: people who stay there, we give rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u51	I cannot compare these financial products with civil rights, because I do not know the situation. What I do know is that the European Union has worked hard to ensure that a exit agreement with the United Kingdom could be reached. And the United Kingdom did not accept that agreement. So everything that could have been done about it has been done on the part of the European Union. The Netherlands has also worked hard on this. In addition, the Netherlands has worked hard to ensure that there is a status for the Dutch in the UK. Mrs Leijten had another vague question. Can the bill take effect with retroactive effect? I hope, Mr President, that I have understood Mrs Leijten's question correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u52	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u53	Okay. The bill does not enter into force retroactively, and that is not necessary. The bill applies to Dutch people who had the main residence in the United Kingdom at the time of the Brexireféendum, which was on 23 June 2016. They may make use of the possibilities offered by the legislative proposal, irrespective of the date of entry into force. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me whether the legislative proposal would only enter into force if there was no agreement in which the rights of Dutch people in the United Kingdom were sufficiently guaranteed. What does "sufficient" mean and who determines that? Mr Sjoerdsma has already spoken about this. For the entry into force of the law if it has been adopted by both Chambers of the States-General, I have already had a little debate with Mrs Leijten on this subject. In my view, a regulation which corresponds to what was agreed on the right of residence in the exit agreement with which the British House of Commons agreed in principle last week is sufficient. Any other agreement on the right of residence will have to be assessed on its own merits. Then I had a question from Mrs Van Toorenburg. We've already talked about that. How do you assess this bill in the light of the government agreement which assumes that in future Dutch citizens will have only one nationality? The coalition agreement agreed that two measures would be taken in a coherent manner. I've already said this. First-generation immigrants and immigrants may have multiple nationality, but generations thereafter may have only one nationality. There will be a moment of choice for them, but these two measures must therefore be dealt with in conjunction with a legislative proposal. This initiative proposal provides for a specific group of Dutch citizens to have permanent dual nationality, without distinguishing between the first generation of immigrants on the one hand and the next generations on the other. In this respect, the legislative proposal does not fall within the terms of the coalition agreement. I think I have answered all the questions put to me by the Chamber in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u54	Thank you very much for your advice to the Chamber and once again thank the initiators for the defense. This brings us to the end of the first term. I suggest we proceed immediately with the second term. First, Mrs Özütok has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma for the presentation of the intention of this legislative initiative and for the detailed answer to all our questions and responses to all our comments. Mr. Chairman. We still do not know how long this growing uncertainty for Dutch people currently residing in the UK will last. With this law, the initiators want to offer a solution to 100,000 Dutch people living in great and growing uncertainty, in an exceptional situation created by the whimsical political situation in the UK. It's a little puzzle piece in the whole; we all know that tonight. That is why it is so valuable that the initiators have come up with this bill. The more loud it sounds than the attitude of the Secretary of State, who says on the one hand that he understands the situation of the people, but on the other hand that he does not do a single hand to achieve an appropriate solution for these people. Mr. Chairman. I say again to the Secretary of State that we are really dealing with an exceptional situation here. We want to give this to her for further consideration of the bill here but also later in the Upper House. Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to thank the initiators for this proposal. My group supports this bill. We have a number of concerns, which I have raised in the first term, about informing the target group. To this end, Mrs Belhaj will also table two motions on my behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u56	Thank you. Mrs Belhaj has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u57	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the initiators and, of course, Mr Sjoerdsma, not because I happen to belong to the same party, but because he has been given the honour to speak on behalf of Van Ojik, Asscher, Van Otterloo and Van Wijngaarden. The fact that he was awarded this is of course also worth an extra compliment to the people who sat next to him and saw it. Mr. Chairman. As my interruptions with the Secretary of State showed, I was a little surprised. Of course, it happens more often in the Chamber that there are important reasons why you cannot support a particular bill or why you can indeed talk about the principle of equality, which can be discussed in this Chamber. But in this case, I find it very unfortunate what the answer from the Secretary of State has been, because she is so empathetic to all those people who do not know where they stand by now. Empathy is worth something politically if you are willing to give a translation to it, I always say. That didn't happen. That did not happen by saying: on second thought, I think it is actually quite a good legislative proposal. It's possible, but maybe it'll come later. And it didn't happen by saying "stronger, I think it can be better and I come up with another plan," but maybe it will. For now, I am pleased to see that there is broad support for doing so for this particular group, for those 100,000 people who all have a personal story and a personal situation in which they benefit greatly from this law. Mr. Chairman. In addition to that, I still have two motions. The first concerns information for the Dutch in the United Kingdom on the entry into force of this law. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in view of current political developments in the UK a no-dealbrexit is still a realistic scenario and thus remains the need for the Rijkswet containment effects Brexit;]] [[Whereas, in the past, the Dutch have been confronted with far-reaching consequences for their nationality due to lack of public communication;]] [[whereas the Netherlands in the UK must be actively informed about the entry into force of this law when a no-dealbrexit takes place, so that they can act directly;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that after the adoption of the Rijkswet containment effects Brexit in both chambers can be started immediately on the information on this change of law for Dutch people in the UK,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Özütok and Mr Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35130-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u58	Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns the British in the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has already made many provisions to limit the consequences of brexit for British people in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the "official" representatives of the British in the Netherlands are asking for further arrangements for them;]] [[invites the Government to discuss with these representatives their wishes and the possibilities for managing the effects of the Brexit in the best possible way, and to report to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Özütok and Mr Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35130-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u59	Mr. Chairman. Then all I have to say is to go to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u60	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u61	Mr. Chairman. When I actually congratulated Mr Sjoerdsma on his law of waxing last week, each time a party is present and at some point a majority in box K, I said that I thought he would do the initiative right here with proper treatment. I have to say, that's what I really felt today. He's taken the questions seriously. I think we're right to fall back on May's exit deal. The fact that we are seeing Johnson again is true, but I would like to say here that the possibility of a no-deal has not yet been removed at all. After all, we do not know how the wind blows in new elections. We all hope for the best, but we don't know that at all. So if the hardliners win, to put it this way, and say, "we're going to miss out without appointments," then we have a big problem. Time bought again, until January 31st. That's also nice for the handling of this bill, I think. It has now been said that we are going to treat this exit deal well. He wasn't voted out. But that doesn't mean he's gonna stand up. So this legislative proposal remains topical and I think it remains clear that, as far as I am concerned, it is a good thing that... No, I'm gonna go over something the Secretary of State said first. She talks about the equality of people. She herself says that there are 100,000 Dutch people in the United Kingdom, and 50,000 of them have dual nationality. There you go with your equality of justice. It is true for 50,000 people and it is not true for 50,000 people. These are people who may have lived there for a very long time. We have received a lot of e-mails and a lot of cases about impressive stories, for example from people who are separated in the past, but who have their children living there and also have their parents here. They're just incredibly insecure. I find that convincing. They say, "If I had been married to a Brit, I could have, but it is not anymore. But my children and my grandchildren do live here, and perhaps I should also take care of my elderly mother." So you know, I don't really think it's that strong. I don't think it's that strong. Mr. Chairman. Let me just say: I know that the representative of the CDA is probably absent for personal reasons, but I am sorry that the CDA is not here today, because I would have liked to hear how they had come from the struggle. We will try to do that in the corridors, but it is a pity that we cannot record that here in Parliament. I will advise my group to look positively at this bill, but not after I have tabled the next motion, despite the proper response. I would also like to suggest that we put this motion to the vote first and then vote on the legislative proposal. But that's more of an order proposal to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal aims to provide a large group of Dutch people who are threatened by the Brexit, which they could not foresee, with a coulance by creating a temporary and conditional exemption in the Dutch Act;]] [[Whereas the draft law is not intended to undermine the functioning of the Rijkswet in general, not even as regards the provisions on dual nationality contained in it;]] [[points out that this temporary and conditional law is merely intended to deal with this most exceptional situation and is not intended in any way to set a precedent and should not be interpreted as such,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35130-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u62	I think I have said everything I would like to say. Good luck to the proposers across our beautiful Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u63	Mr Mulder has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u64	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to Mr Sjoerdsma and the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to all the questions and comments. It has already been said that the situation in the United Kingdom is unpredictable. This means that this law remains unabatedly necessary. This unpredictability and uncertainty in British politics must not be allowed to affect the Dutch in the United Kingdom. They are also concerned about the so-called setled status, as we heard in London three weeks ago. As I said in my first term, my group does not deal lightly with this law. The Brexit is highly exceptional. This law also concerns a defined group. The law is also temporary. If there is to be a deal or any other decent solution for the people, then this law will expire again. This law is therefore a total exception. We also prefer that he should not have to enter into force, but in case that is what we have at his disposal. Thanks again to all the initiators. Although we still have to vote, my political mathematics says that it should succeed, I wish them every success in the First Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u65	Thank you very much. I understand that the proposers are right to respond to the second term and to the motions tabled in it. Mr. Sjoerdsma, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u66	Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all parties for their input and their questions. In the second term of the Chamber, I was particularly concerned, if I may sum up, that the no-deal is still not off the table. I think that fear is justified. The need for a safety net has been underlined and there is concern that the safety net is not here at the moment. I taste support from many. I am very grateful for that, partly on behalf of the co-initiators. I do not know if I can say it on their behalf, but at least I say it on my own behalf: I am of course particularly gilded with the support of tonight's SP. Thanks also to the Secretary of State for her advice. I tasted her empathy for the Dutch in the UK, but occasionally I also had the idea that it was not entirely clear that this law sees the situation of a no-dealbrexit. I understand that there are many references to the exit agreement. Of course, that also offers hope, but we must note that a withdrawal agreement was rejected three times earlier by the British House of Commons. As far as this new exit agreement is concerned, although it has been voted in a majority that it needs to be dealt with in detail, it is extremely uncertain that the exit agreement will be maintained in the light of the new elections. If it were to be dealt with, it would continue to the committee phase. British parliamentarians would once again have the opportunity to amend it. The question would then be whether these amendments would at all be acceptable to the Boris Johnson Government if there were a majority in favour of them. It could also be that this deal would go away. In other words, the uncertainty is really considerable. I would just like to touch briefly on the principle of equality. I just had a taste of some reservations about that. I would like to emphasise that the Council of State does not mention this principle. I would also like to emphasise that there is no infringement of the principle of equality in this legislative proposal. It is only when individuals are treated differently in the same situation that they are treated differently than at present that there can be an infringement of the principle of equality or discriminatory action. The unique nature and consequences of a no-dealbrexit for a specific group justify the distinction and therefore a special arrangement for this group. Thus, the infringement of the principle of equality does not occur because there is no other situation to compare this group, which has acted differently. The initiators have already indicated that if a similar situation were to arise, they would be entitled to choose the same type of solution. So we're talking about a well-defined group. Unlike other Dutch people abroad, to which reference was made, these are Dutch people who were already resident in the United Kingdom before the Brexitrefendum and had their main residence there in the meantime. They are in constant uncertainty due to a possible no-dealbrexit. The only way in which the Dutch Government, or in this case the Dutch Parliament, can offer that certainty, is by offering dual nationality. However, the Council of State's opinion was concerned with proportionality. I replied both in my first term and in my second term. Mr. Chairman. I have to say that it is difficult for me to say that it is acceptable for some of the Dutch in the United Kingdom to have dual nationality and then to say that it is acceptable for the other part of the United Kingdom, which then does not qualify for it, given the effects of a no-dealbrexit. I also wonder from an international perspective why in other countries, especially in conservative countries such as Austria and Slovakia, which have adopted the same kind of law as the initiators are proposing today, the legal advice that the principle of equality has been violated would not apply. Are all these countries, then, let me say it popularly, crazy? Or have they found a method similar to ours to deal with these problems? I honestly think the latter. I understand the argument that other Dutch people in the strange would want this, too. I have also seen online that other Dutch people would like this too. I also have sympathy for that argument. You can also see in the online poll among Dutch people abroad that the vast majority of them, despite their own desire for a double nationality, are well aware that this is a unique situation. It is a situation of Dutch people who are in a European Member State who have decided to separate without these Dutch having had any influence on it, and who can have a significant negative impact on the lives of Dutch people in the United Kingdom. I also quote: it is not so that this group is just a bit more pathetic than the others. No, it's just necessary. I am just saying that because the United Kingdom started guaranteeing the rights of European citizens. That was then: you must register actively. Then it became: if you have not registered properly, you will be deported. That was reconfirmed by a British minister this week. Deported, so with force removed from the UK! Then we can say that the setled status system is actually quite good, but you run the risk of being deported. When I look at the percentage of people not accepted in the system, that is very worrying. When I look at the number of people who have not been able to obtain the right status in that system, it is very worrying, given the consequences that can follow. If I also see that this is contained in secondary legislation, in other words, not in a law or Rijkswet like this, but in secondary legislation that can simply be changed again without input from the British House of Commons, then we are facing serious uncertainty. I say this to the context of a situation in which European citizens in the United Kingdom are already dealing with the fact that they have not been able to vote, for example in the European elections, or that their vote has not been counted. The context of the situation, as Mr Mulder mentioned, is also that the United Kingdom has had a scandal before, the so-called Windrush scandal, in which people of Caribbean origin have also been deported. I say this in a context in which a British minister announced that the freedom of movement would stop radically on 31 October. She laughed very pleasantly, but of course it was not a pleasant message. She withdrew it later, but that's the context. I say this also in the context of a reduction in the number of attacks and tolerance for European citizens in the United Kingdom. That is the political context in which British politics is about to decide the fate of Dutch citizens. I tell you that I have great faith in our British friends. They're loyal partners of ours. But I think this safety net is important. Finally, I say this because the alternative is that we do nothing for these people. And doing nothing, it can't be. Mr. Chairman. Reference was also made to the Convention on the limitation of cases of multiple nationality, the so-called Strasbourg Convention. That would prevent us from entering into this law. The initiators do not agree, because this Convention is not fully applicable, since the United Kingdom has made a reservation, which only applies to Chapter 2. Mr. Chairman. Several Members of Parliament have, in my view, rightly made comments on the importance of good information. I think Mr Mulder is right to point that out. Although many people are on social media nowadays and although many people are actively following this kind of debate, it is not wise to assume that you will reach all Dutch in the UK. We have already seen in the past that lack of public communication has led to a very negative impact on the Dutch regarding their nationality. They just lost their nationality. Well, it can be said that you can get that nationality back by now. There is indeed an option for this. But it should also be mentioned that the condition is that you live in the Netherlands for another year. For people who have built up their lives abroad, who live and work there, that is a condition they cannot meet without taking their whole lives on the shovel. Finally, Mr President. Two exit agreements have been concluded. That offers hope. A retirement agreement has been voted down. The other one's still in the air. But today's debate in the House of Commons and earlier on is not reassuring. The question that lies on the table is whether this current exit agreement is going to stand. With the forthcoming elections, which will take place on 12 December, it is simply unclear what will happen. Then it's all open. I hope that with this input in the second period I have been able to remove the concerns that might still have been raised. I also hope that all those who are considering or perhaps have already announced their intention to support this proposal may wish to become co-initiators. I'm not saying that because the list of names under this law is now very important. It is not a growth law, in the sense that I would prefer to see as many names under it as possible, but in the sense that I think it would be an important signal to Dutch people in the United Kingdom that this is something that goes beyond party politics and that the Chamber is widely aware of the importance of this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u67	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I still have a little time left to decide on the "pronounced" motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u68	Mr President, I cannot judge that. The Chamber is about its own motions and I wish the groups a proper consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, who may, in this case, give an opinion on the motions tabled, in which a request is addressed to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have begun to say that I understand the feelings of unrest among the Dutch who live and work in the United Kingdom. I still have those feelings. This does not alter the view I have expressed in the cabinet on the initiative proposal. The cabinet has made its own assessment and has also looked at everything that has been put forward here from all sides. The judgment is that we should not solve a problem of establishment with nationality. The principle of equality is of great importance to the cabinet as legislator for all Dutch. The principle of equality has also been emphasised by the Council of State. It has said so many words: the proposal means that a specific group of citizens can finally acquire a dual nationality where others are not allowed in principle; and that is contrary to the principle of equality. Mrs Özütok said that the Secretary of State is not doing any hand-off. I think I have responded sufficiently in the first period. There has been extensive negotiations by the European Union. The fact that this agreement has not yet been adopted by the British Parliament is a real pain in the ass, as I agree with Mrs Özütok, but the Dutch Government has also worked very hard to ensure, together with the British Government, that pre-setled status and settled status are taken into account. It has really worked hard to ensure that there are the best possible arrangements. Mrs Belhaj has asked me to come up with another plan. I would almost say, please, let the British Parliament hold together for a moment and think how good the agreement they have now said yes to is and that we will not get a hard Brexit. I can express that wish. I think everyone has that wish, but right now it's all very unsure what the situation is like. I shall then turn to the motions for resolutions. Three motions have been tabled, the first and the second of which have been addressed to me. The motion in part No. 14 is about information. I would like to give that judgment to the Chamber, if I can at least understand the motion in such a way as to allow that information to be provided through the regular channels. Then the motion to part No. 15, about having a conversation with the representatives of the British in the Netherlands. If I can understand the motion in such a way that I am speaking to these representatives when they request it, then please judge Chamber. But that doesn't change my judgment of the bill, I must add. Then there is the motion on part No. 16. It has also been answered by Mr Sjoerdsma. I understand that the aim of the proposers is that it should apply only to this particular situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u71	You don't have to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u72	I fear that the proposal may be a precedent, but I do judge the Chamber as far as I could, but I am not going to go over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u73	No, it's not your call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u74	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u75	The Secretary of State requested the motion in part No. 15 to be able to interpret it in such a way that people approach it. But I don't really think so, so I think I'll just keep the motion that way. I'd like if that law were passed, the Secretary of State would be open to that and she would prepare the coffee and say, "Welcome, I'd like to have a conversation with you." So I'll keep the motion that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u76	I hear what Mrs Belhaj is saying, but unfortunately I have to discourage the motion, because we have already had a lot of discussions with the British in the Netherlands. All the facilities we have been able to make have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u77	That makes the motion in part No. 15 dissuade. Have you come to the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u78	Yes, that's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u79	Thank you very much for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-19.u80	Many thanks again to the proposers. Good luck, after the votes, which will take place next Tuesday, with the further defense of the bill. Perhaps it is appropriate to respond to Mrs Leijten's request. She asked to put the "spoken" motion to the vote first, prior to the legislative proposal. I'd like to see if you can agree to that, because then we can agree to that right away. Otherwise it will have to be dealt with separately. Is it okay to put the "spoken out" motion to the vote first? I understand that's the case. Then we'll pass that on. Then we can vote on Tuesday in that way. Thank you to everyone, including the support of the initiators and the staff of the Chamber.
