ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u1	We are continuing in one movement with the great fundamental debate on the future of education cooperation. We have eight participants on the side of the Chamber who are eagerly impatient. The first speaker is Mr Van Meenen of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is, as you will remember, almost a year ago that a widely adopted motion of D66 and CDA asked for the administration of the Education Co-operation to be transferred to teachers. Not long after, the Education Co-operation imploded and the board lifted the entire organization. Ironically, this debate is called "the future of education cooperation." The Education Cooperation has lost the teacher's trust over and over again in its existence. She was not from, before and by the teachers, she was not their representation, she was in the hands of government and unions. The reaction of the Board of Education Co-operatives is significant. The board would rather lift the organization than transfer the board to teachers. The only way in which the Education Co-operation contributed to the formation of a profession was through the common and binding aversion of that Education Co-operation. Mr. Chairman. The research shows that it is a good thing that the Education Cooperation no longer exists. The salary of the quartermaster, for example, at the end of the assignment would be above the norming law top incomes, and that under the direction of trade unions. Moreover, the inquiry of the quartermaster never became public. Even the Minister does not have it, which can actually be seen as an insult. There was a total lack of supervision of the board. Does the Minister see any chance that we'll ever be able to see that report from the quartermaster? Will the Minister amend OCW's grant policy in response to the report of the Audit Service? What has been the employership of the Education Cooperation in recent months? Mr. Chairman. One part of the Educational Cooperation did succeed very well: the LOF, the TeachersDevelopingFunds. D66 would like this fund to be preserved. Seems to be the same under the CAOP. Is this also covered by OCW? Will the LOF and the subsidy be retained? Is it possible to transfer that subsidy from the OC to the LOF? By the way, this has been a debate with a number of people from the CDA, so steps have already been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u3	A question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u4	Let's get back to that report from that fat-paid quartermaster. Mr. Van Meenen notes that we probably never get to see that report. My group is not yet ready. Shouldn't we all say here today: boys, we as a government have paid for this report. To the left or to the right: we are entitled to that report, we want to get it, and we are going to read it, because we are the parties that are being looked at when lessons have to be drawn from failure such as the Education Cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u5	Yes. In other words, Mr Kwint is saying the same thing as I am. First of all, it is impossible for the Minister not to have it. I'm sure if the minister had it, we'd get it, too. Is the minister gonna make sure he gets it? I therefore agree with Mr Kwint. That's how easy it can be, chairman, frappes toujours. Mr. Chairman. With the end of the Education Co-operation, the export of the teacher register has been returned to the Ministry. I don't think that's gonna work out. Teachers receive letters about filling a portfolio, while they are not waiting for it. This isn't from, for and by the teachers. The requirement in the government agreement to further develop the teacher register is precisely that "from, before and through." Can the Minister explain why it is necessary to continue with this register and why the ministry continues to write letters to teachers and administrators? Who can explain to me why the law is being enforced at all at the moment? Does the current law bring the goal of the coalition agreement, "from, before and through," closer or even further away if you look at the investigation of the General Administrative Service? D66 has always said that the teacher register should be the culmination of sound policies and a full-fledged profession in which the teacher is given control over the development of the profession. Mr. Chairman. Recently the teacher collective has started, an initiative of some of our well-known teachers. Perhaps this will grow into a broad-based representation. How does the Minister see the role of the Ministry in relation to this profession in the future? D66 also sees the possibility of adding resources to the lumpsum for the formation of that profession, similar to the PO Council and the VO Council. How does the Minister view that? Mr. Chairman. D66 is in this cabinet for higher education investment, but also for better education policy. In addition, a few unnecessary and unnecessary Hague plans had to perish, including the Education Co-operation. D66 is confident that we can build a full-fledged profession with the teachers. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you. That's who I am. Then Mrs Van den Hul of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Van Meenen said, this debate does not have the right title, because the Education Cooperation has no future. It was a good idea on paper, undoubtedly with the best intentions, but the conclusion is that teachers were not sufficiently represented, with the exception of the LOF mentioned by Mr Van Meenen. That was not only the conclusion of the teachers and of the Chamber, but also the conclusion of Rinnooy Kan. He said: it must be from, for and by teachers and not from above; you should not talk about, but talk to. We naturally agree with that. The Minister too is now placing the ball in the sector. He expressed the wish that the sector should organise itself. For the time being, the sector seems to be doing just fine, looking back on the fantastic work of PO in action and the PO front, thanks to whose efforts there was a work pressure agreement, and looking back on the impressive turnout with more than 40,000 million! People on March 15th at the Malieveld. I am also looking at the recently launched teacher collective, which is already on its way to the 10,000 applications. That ball, the sector knows what to do with it. But the minister is about the playing field. That's where the shoe's wringing. How autonomous can you organize and professionalise as a teacher when the water is up to your lips and if you can't even call in sick, because there is no colleague who can replace you? And if you wanted to train, organize or professionalize, but there simply isn't time for that? We are pleased that our motion, supported by GroenLinks, SP and D66 on the disclosure of the wage area in collective bargaining was adopted on Tuesday. A fair playing field begins at the collective bargaining table. But that's not what we're here for. More is needed to put teachers in a position to optimally complete their professional development and to give them "from, for and through" real hands and feet. Does the Minister see a link between the under-utilisation of professionalisation budgets on the one hand and the high workload and the shortage of teachers on the other? Speaking of the shortage of teachers, the minister reported on his Facebook page this week that there are hopeful signals. He says that in the last year there was an increase of 3,000 fte in the po. As a result, I would like to ask the Minister how many of these 3,000 jobs are teachers. And how do these jobs contribute to the structural solution of the shortage of teachers and to the professionalisation that this evening is about? We do not read in the same study of DUO Educational Research & Advice that other DUO; there is still some confusion about this that 59% of the teachers questioned indicate that this is just a drop in the ocean, whereas the Minister is hopeful about that research. No matter how beautiful all these messages seem, there are still big holes to close. As far as we are concerned, they should not be closed with the very important resources budget, or with a cosmetic cash drawer. They ask for an extra investment in our education, in a better reward, in bridging the gap between po, vso and vo, in smaller classes, and in more time for professionalisation. Because only then will it be real, for and by our teachers. Our kids are worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. Then Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. Despite all good intentions, the Education Cooperation has not been able to live up to expectations. This is clear from practice and also from the various evaluations. Looking back, GroenLinks thinks it was a good idea to pull the plug last year. As far as we are concerned, we are mainly talking about what needs to be done now. Is it time for a fresh start, for example? Is there a professional organisation that is really from, before and by the teachers; an organisation that speaks on behalf of all teachers, but which does come from the bottom up, from the teachers themselves? Or is a new organisation superfluous and is it wise to strengthen existing organisations and initiatives? For GroenLinks, the answer depends on how the minister sees such a new organisation. That is why we would like to hear from the Minister how he sees a new organization that comes from the bottom up and is from, before and by the teacher. How does he see this organisation in the existing playing field of the diversity of educational organisations? And is it actually a new club, or does the Minister hint at all new organisations representing part of the profession? And is the Ministry going to use this new organisation, which represents the profession, as a sparring partner, so that teachers really get a say in education policy, or is this club going to have the task of making political decisions? If that is the case, then we should not encourage new initiatives. Mr. Chairman. I say it a little sharp, because my group is looking forward to Rinnooy Kan's report. Of course, it is not nothing if the Minister asks a heavyweight to investigate how to proceed after the lifting of the Education Cooperation. However, we are surprised that the Minister then writes that a new profession needs to be created from below, without imposed blueprints, and that there may be differences between sectors, but that we are not getting any clarity about how this should then be set up. Mr. Chairman. In a new organisation, for example, does the Minister consider the teacher collective recently launched by Thijs Roovers, Jan van de Ven and René Kneyber among others? If so, will the Ministry facilitate this initiative? Will this initiative become an interlocutor with the Minister? How would he want to shape that? And how does this collective relate to other organisations? Mr. Chairman. I'm not saying this to be lame, but we have a lot of local and rural organisations in education. We have the trade unions, student and student organisations, the boards of government, the other administrative organisations, the school leaders, the action clubs, dozens of professional associations, international organisations and networks, and associations related to education. I can go on like this for a while. In a few minutes we came to this list. When I list them all, I am out of my speaking time. So we didn't, when my point is clear. Because where should we put such a new organization? In education there are already a lot of clubs, many clubs that are also founded and run by teachers themselves. In short, my group still has a great deal of uncertainty about the role of future professional organisations and their position. Mr. Chairman. I come to another point. Between 2011 and 2017, according to our quick sum, the Education Co-operation received over 31 million euros, and perhaps even more. That's a lot of money, but it's hard to tell if we don't get a broader picture of the funding flows going around in education. Could the Minister inform us in writing about the policy of OCW? I have often been surprised that school and student organisations, for example, have to do it at a few tons a year, while we often talk about amounts going towards millions in other organisations. And can the resources allocated to the educational organizations continue to be used to increase the representation of the profession? Mr. Chairman. I also agree with the questions that Paul van Meenen asked about the amount that the quartermaster received and about the report, and I am also very curious about its content. Mr. Chairman. An important part of the new professional associations is the further development of teachers' own professional development. In the State of Teachers 93% of teachers work on professionalization to find very important. We are curious whether the Minister knows to what extent collective agreements on professionalisation are actually being complied with. Mr. Chairman. My plea is clear. I'd like to hear from the Minister what his ideas are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bertema of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u11	Nice to be here, Mr. Chairman, for the mother of all debates. As far as we are concerned, this debate should not have been held. We are talking today about the future of an organisation that has already been dissolved. The Education Cooperation no longer exists since 1 January, and we are not exactly grieved about that. When an organisation has de facto no longer any right to exist, it is better to abolish itself. It is a good thing that this has happened, although it required a motion from my colleagues Van Meenen and Rog, who asked for the board to be transferred to an interim board of teachers, who did have the confidence of the profession. Mr Rinnooy Kan's opinion was the proverbial nail to the coffin of the Educational Cooperation. None of that is surprising. The construction was equally untenable, and it has proved insufficient to adequately represent teachers within the teacher register. The whole notion "from, for and through" was hardly mentioned. Mr. Chairman. What's next? Is it still justified to seek a teacher register at this point in time, especially given the problems that the profession is already facing today? Isn't it better to leave these plans to rest and make them in place? It is a professional group without a representative organisation, where there is no natural starting point for such an organisation. Rinnooy Kan gives two points of departure as advice: a fresh start from bottom to bottom and along the lines of professional development. He also states, and we fully agree with that, that the government should not direct the formation of professional groups from above. Every time the government wants to do this again from above, the same usual suspects emerge from the educational polder. These are especially the unions, like a kind of weed that refuses to perish, to eventually completely corrupt the original idea. Mr. Chairman. I have always been a great supporter of a teacher register and of an educational cooperative, and especially of those words "from, for and by the teacher." I've always been hard on that. I thought it was necessary then, and I actually think it's still necessary. Anyway, choose your battles. The reality teaches us that education and the profession now face far greater problems than the creation of a teacher register. I therefore call for it to be put in the refrigerator for the time being. But if there is a wide-ranging awareness within the profession itself to attract the ownership of a register that is still to be formed, I will, of course, welcome it. For now, it seems wiser to take appropriate distance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you. Then Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u13	Yes, thank you. Today we are talking about the umpteenth failure of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet in education. We already had the calculation test, the zero line for teachers, the teacher register and, of course, the educational cooperative. Three out of four appear to be disappearing. For the fourth, Mr Bishop and I have an excellent solution. Yeah, and if we didn't have a huge teacher shortage, it'd be like the last cabinet had never been there. That would not have been so bad for education, because what a mess it has become because politics once again thought to know better than the teacher and a club was created to pretend political decisions had support in education. Those were decisions like the highly controversial teacher register. I made a slightly different calculation from Mrs Westerveld and I came to about 40 million in tax money that could have just gone to class. That's wasted, because there wasn't any support. I remember a discussion that one of my predecessors, Jasper van Dijk, had in the Chamber. The argument of some of the supporters of this teacher register was mainly that they had been at the teacher's festival and had spoken to an enthusiastic teacher there. Therefore, the support for the teacher register did not need to be investigated. So Quatsch. Speaking of the teacher register, why hasn't the Minister decided to stop all that? What's the reason he shuts it down but doesn't withdraw it? Surely no one doubts the lack of support for this register? And as long as this law is not repealed, he stands in the way of a group of teachers who want to represent the profession. That might be even more important. Because the moment you organize yourself, you run a lifelong risk of getting the millstone of the register right away as a thank you for the effort. The Minister himself did not invent the register, and he will have to admit that it does not necessarily benefit the self-organisation of a profession. Is he prepared not to immediately burden new initiatives such as teachers' collective, when this becomes a success, with the heavy legacy of the teacher register? If he simply takes the time to do so, we will abolish it here in the Chamber in the long term. The Minister also says that vocational training in education is so complicated. The SP is wondering. We think it's mostly complicated to send from the Ministry. And that is excellent news for the future of the profession and the teachers: more self-doing and less specifically getting the content of your profession. That is what is happening now, for example through the formation of the aforementioned professional association. And of course, the government can support this; we also do so in parent clubs. And let's not beat around the bush: the boards we have in the Netherlands are also paid from the lumpsum. The initiative must first come from the teachers themselves, and then we will see how we can support it. It has to be in that order, not the other way around. Would the Minister be prepared to do so? The Education Co-operation has been working for a long time, so what happens then? Then a quarter of an hour maker will be set up. Then you usually know that the point of salvation has already passed. Those quartermasters are never cheap, and they're not cheap at all. This quartermaster would have crossed the border of the WNT if he had worked all year! But he didn't work for years. I wouldn't do that with a salary like that. Isn't that just contrary to the WNT? The Top Income Standards Act isn't about what you make in a year, is it? Isn't that about what you'd make in a year? He looks at your work over a certain period of time, doesn't he? How much has this person made now? For how many hours? And is that above the WNT standard or not? When it's above the WNT standard, can we recover some of that money? Because we don't know what that quartermaster has done with all these hours. We simply don't know. We can't learn lessons. We cannot come to any conclusions, because the report he made for that royal salary is not going our way. Isn't that insult from both the Ministry and the Chamber? The Chamber has made the co-operative's budget available. I couldn't figure it out, but didn't the ministry also make any extra budget available specifically for this quartermaster? In my view, the subsidies we provided to the Education Co-operation were mainly for the agency. I can't imagine a quarter of an hour's worth of that could be paid for. The SP just wants this report. Who did the Minister ask for this? What was the answer? Why don't we get it? Who's got the report we're not getting? Because we want to talk about it and seriously consider giving the Minister a little support, a moral support for the Minister if he has to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Education Co-operation was established in 2011. That was when Halbe Zijlstra was Secretary of State for Education. The reason for the institutionalisation of the Education Co-operation was an opinion from 2007 from none other than Mr Rinnooy Kan. How do we know that name? For ten to fifteen years there has been an attempt to organize the profession of teachers, but without success. And now the government would kick-start. The Christian Union was already critical of the chosen form at the time and asked whether the teachers actually felt involved in this whole process. The aim was for the Education Co-operation to speak on behalf of all teachers, but the cooperative was really nothing but a bundling of existing government-funded interest groups, a kind of central administration of all administrations, in which board members met with other board members. It makes sense that teachers didn't have any feelings about it. But it was useful for the ruler to have one point of contact. But if that contact doesn't represent anyone, it's meaningless. I was hopeful when I saw the rise of PO in action. But as soon as PO threatened to institutionalize in action, the enthusiastic rebellion with which it began so nicely disappeared. So the question remained: who represents the teacher? We didn't get any further than we were at the beginning of this century. It is so important to have an organization that the teacher in the classroom feels represented by. In my view, such an organisation is not, by definition, set up by the government and preferably, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, not funded by the government either. The fact that the Education Cooperation is now being dismantled does not bother me. As the administrative evaluation puts it euphemistically: "The motto of, for and by the teacher was not widely felt in practice." Now that we have to observe this, it also raises questions about the money. Several Members have already asked questions about this. Can the Minister reflect on the use of these funds and is there any money left to recover from the Ministry? Mr. Chairman. PO in action has the greatest achievement that it has emancipated the profession. Masters and girls have rediscovered their justified professional pride. What PO has shown very clearly in action is that teachers do not feel represented by existing councils, such as PO Council, VO Council and MBO Council. These councils represent the school administrators. So if teachers do not feel represented by these councils, teachers do not actually feel represented by their own executives. Apparently, they feel that the importance of school boards is not parallel to the importance of teachers. Isn't that actually the real problem? Everyone wants an organization that speaks on behalf of education, but who is "education"? If you speak through the school administrators, then the teachers do not feel represented and you talk to the teachers, then the question is what appointments you can make and what exactly do these appointments mean. My advice to the Minister is to leave this problem mainly in the field and not to resolve it as previous rulers tried. Minister, it's not your problem. If teachers do not feel represented, teachers must ensure that they are represented. That's how a professional adult profession does it. A Hague blueprint must be avoided, according to Rinnooy Kan in his recent report. Those are wise words to me. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the ball lies with the Jannen and the Thijsen, the Rindas and the Maurice of this world to solve this. And not by setting up a board of directors, but by working on further emancipation and resilience of the profession. That starts with a culture change in schools, with teachers talking to their board, with better leadership, with enough diversity in school teams and, yes, with more classmates, as my 2016 initiative paper was called. Mr. Chairman. In his opinion, Rinnooy Kan rightly states that supporting and organising the professional development of teachers should be taken as a starting point in the further professional formation. My final question to the Minister is how he sees it. Does the Minister see a role for himself there? How do we stop us from making blueprints along that road after all? How's the minister looking at this? Can he keep appropriate distance and especially keep his hand on the cut for as long as possible, at least as long as it is unclear what the field itself wants? Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u17	I fully share Mr Bruins' view that the ball lies with the teachers. It is up to them now to show what this profession can become. I think there are hopeful initiatives here. But Mr Bruins seems to be completely dismissing the fact that there could be any involvement from the government, even though there is, indirectly, with the Rindas and so on, which he also mentions. Their organization is largely financed through the lump sum of the schools. Does Mr Bruins exclude such involvement, not in terms of content but purely financial, from the public authorities in the formation of this profession in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u18	The interesting thing here is that as a ruler, you want to keep an appropriate distance if you want this to ever be of, for and by teachers. At the same time, you want to facilitate it. I wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom in that balance, because before you know it, it will be seen as something organized from the tower of OCW. And that's something you have to avoid for everything. I also see a lot of hopeful initiatives. I see the teachers collective, I see the TeachersDevelopingFonds, I see the movement Long live education!. Very nice. I'm actually seeing the new minipolder of the 21st century emerge. But that has to be clearly crystallized first. That's where ownership needs to be. It must be clear that it is viable. And then you could look at the mandate that goes with it. And if you see that there is a mandate in that mini-polder for the education sector, you might be able to facilitate it. But you don't have to start too fast, and it doesn't have to be expensive, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u19	If this is to be and may be a success, we hope, I think, that all of us agree once again with Mr Bruins that we should stay away from the substance, that we should not make laws that make it all mandatory. We can all learn those lessons from recent history. Mr Bruins talks about the initial phase and says that you should not do it there. But perhaps it should be done in the initial phase and not later. Can I summarize my question in such a way that Mr Bruins does not rule out the possibility of going to any, in particular financial, public support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u20	When I see the beginning of the Education Co-operation, I see that it was actually meant as a kick-start of the government: we give it a push, because after fifteen or twenty years of talking, the sector itself is unable to start this. That kickstart has become a moloch that was going to cost about 7.5 million euros a year. That has been given a completely different dynamic, and it should not happen again. I'm positive about the thought that you're making it possible for you not to put it in the way. You might also be wondering if you want to spend some money on it. But I really want us to be many times more careful than 12 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u21	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u22	Very good. Then we will listen to Mr Rog of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. Martin Sommer talks in a very nice booklet, De kleine Tocqueville, about the France of 1848, in which Tocqueville describes how outside the riot crows and within the representatives of the people all their ingenuity to think about what they might once again disagree about. That was a bit of the image that came up to me when I saw that we were going to talk about the Education Cooperation tonight. What am I saying? On the future of educational cooperation, which has been in the refrigerator for more than a year, or at least for a long time. And that's a good thing. I tabled a motion together with Mr Van Meenen of D66 to actually transfer that board to the teachers' profession. In the end, the case has exploded, and that is perhaps a good thing. I actually wanted to limit my contribution by appealing to the Minister that his cautious attitude in the letter is supported by the CDA: being reluctant to take steps of my own and not, as far as I am concerned, a new state movement of teachers. Pay attention to that. And I would also say: be careful now to subsidise one new initiative with coincidentally a few teachers who are currently hip. We also have unions that do excellent work and represent teachers around their profession. We have Beter Onderwijs Nederland, which makes a contribution without subsidies and manages to represent teachers. We have the Working and Support Group for Pre-school Education, and I can't help but mention them who give the kindergarten teachers a real voice and represent them around the kindergarten teacher's profession. We also have the BAB, the professional group of academic primary school teachers: zero subsidy. All zero subsidy, and what a nice job these people do! You have the profession of MBO teachers, and so on, and so on. So I think it is important that we do not act as a state, as a government, as a government, to decide who should do it later. I hope that the Minister, if he wishes to do something with this, will give all these various initiatives a chance in a very good way and with a fair distribution of resources. I have one question and it concerns TeachersDevelopingFonds. We have tabled a motion on this matter and it has been held. There was no money left to do extra resources to that TeachersDevelopingFunds. Is that even there by now? Or should we deal with that in the next budget debate by amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you. A short question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u25	It's a very clear question. We have received Mr Rinnooy Kan's report, which also makes a number of recommendations. How does Mr Rog of the CDA view that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u26	Uh, report? That, uh... yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u27	Good answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u28	I read that, too. I have been subtle, but I think I have made it clear that I am very supportive of the other one, as the Minister chooses. Actually, Rinnooy Kan says, "We're gonna have to push that up and rig it." I disagree with that. I have just said it kindly, namely that I agree with the Minister, but that means that I disagree with the author of that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u29	I have one more question about this. What if the Teachers' collective is above 10,000 statements of support? Does Mr Rog think that the Minister could see if this could become a new profession of, for and by the teacher?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u30	I said something about that, too. The Teachers' Collection itself has the ambition to get 10,000 support signatures or how they want to organise them. That's very nice; I'd like to give them that. And I say to the Minister: Minister, very nice when a good part of the profession feels represented by this. But for many years there have been other associations that are really working around their trade or their ideological approach or their partial occupation. I mentioned them all: the VMBO, the preschoolers and the academic primary school teachers. I'd like a level playing field. That's my call or warning, how you want to say it. I would point out that we must be careful to see one club suddenly as the state club that may be the partner of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. The teacher register is in the fridge, the educational cooperative has been dismantled and the ministry is currently at a distance. I think that's very wise. I also appreciate this cautious attitude, as Mr Rog has already mentioned. The field of work is currently busy looking for which training of a professional profession they can support themselves. I also think it is logical that a profession that encompasses so many teachers should at some point try to unite and be represented. It's important that it's from, for and through. We have included this in the coalition agreement. That wasn't the Education Cooperation. Let's just make sure that if there are good initiatives coming from the group itself, we give them a chance. The Teachers' Collective could certainly be one. If that gets big enough, I wonder how the Minister will deal with it. I have little desire to repeat good questions that have already been asked. I've never been like that. I am curious to see how the Minister responds to questions raised by colleagues. My advice to the Minister is, in any case, to balance the distance that the ministry can keep and what is currently developing in the field itself. Then I think it has the best chance of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u33	Very good. We do not have to wait long for that, because the Minister is going to speak immediately. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for taking part in a debate, the title of which caused me some confusion. By the way, that was only very short, because you are not surprised at anything in this world. 'Future of the AC' was a special title in the light of the events that had taken place, but I know when this debate was requested, so that explains it. The OC has been abolished, the office is empty, tasks have been disposed of or transferred, in particular to the CAOP, and most of the staff I will come back to that later. However, it is good to have this debate with each other. It is true that a lot of money has been spent in recent years, moreover for a wide range of tasks, some of which have been very much appreciated. So it wasn't all wasted money. By the way, the money that has been held accountable every year was also to the Chamber. The Chamber has also repeatedly had to agree to the availability of new budgets for new calendar years. But it is good to have a look back at this, I have had some research done on what lessons we learn from this, because we have to learn something from this. In addition, there are new developments, including professional formation, which raise questions. I'll deal with that. I'll do that in four cubes. The first block is a brief look back and questions that have been asked about it. The second block is: what lessons do we draw? The third block is professional formation. The last block is the questions that have been asked about the teacher register. I am not going to have another whole debate here about the shortage of teachers and everything around them. Mrs van den Hul would very much like that, but I think there are other times for that. I'll concentrate on the OC for a second and everything that's related to it. First of all, the look-back. You have also asked questions in writing about the reports and the many letters that have been sent to you in the year and a half that I have been allowed to debate this issue. There's a very interesting timeline in there, which you also asked for. You can indeed see that we find the embryonic phase of the OC in the Action Plan on Learning Power of November 2007. Mr Bruins referred to this. We see that at the closing, the end of the OC, the funeral, the Van Meenen/Rog motion played a clear role. In fact, I believe that Mr Rog has been involved in another function in the embryonic phase, so he has experienced both the beginning and the final part in various functions. Let's look back at what's happened in all these years. There have been many discussions, in particular about involvement and support. These have led to some changes, including that the teacher's parliament, which we first called participants' meeting, has arrived. This raised a number of questions about the basis for this. I think we can say that the expectation that there was that this was a genuine expectation and also a genuine wish that an undisputed professional organisation of teachers was simply not fulfilled, despite the fact that membership of the five educational associations and the trade union has been sought from the outset. They have formed the board of the OC and they represent, if we just think equally numerically, over half of the teachers through their supporters. Yet that representation is not experienced in that way, that it was of, for and through. The debate on acceptance has continued all these years and has thus finally led to the motion tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog last March. It was not your aim to lift the OC, at least that was not in the motion and you did not put it that way either, but the OC's administration finally drew its conclusions and then put back some of its task. I said then that as far as I am concerned, it was simply done in its entirety. It's one whole and we're not gonna give it back. Then it's everything and then we have to see how we can organize this in a different way. I just told you the desk's empty. People are all predominantly at work. Some of them could go to the CAOP, say from work to work. Of the 14 employees, that was six. Four have found a new job somewhere else and two employees have not yet reached another job or applied for it due to circumstances, under other conditions of illness and maternity leave. The expectation is that you know what the labour market is like in the education sector at the moment, and that they too will find a place somewhere. That is very nice, because of course these people also deserve to do this in an orderly way. I said that the desk was empty and that the people have now moved to other places, but the settlement is not quite ready. We're still waiting for the financial settlement. This includes questions about how people have dealt financially with the people who have provided services for the AC. In accordance with the rules and deadlines applicable to subsidised institutions, we will be able to receive the annual report and an administrative report in May. Then we can finalize the balance sheet, including whether there is any money left after the settlement of the whole. I have already indicated that when that moment comes, we will decide what a good cause for that money would be. I know that it has been reported from the Chamber that she is thinking of the LOF. That deserves praise, because that was a flower in the field of the OC. We've put that somewhere else now. The CAOP has already taken care of it. The LOF is, in any case, an objective which the Chamber is thinking about as regards any resources that are left over. So we don't know yet. I shall come back to that in the direction of the Chamber when we do have that clarity. In any case, we have agreed that we will continue to talk about the future of the LOF in the autumn. I know the views of the Chamber on this, so that could be a nice debate. Mr. Chairman. Then the report. It is now being pretended to be a sacrifice because this minister did not have that report. Images have emerged around that report as if it had been related to an evaluation. That's not true. There had been a vacancy for a director. The quartermaster was also simply paid out of the subsidy funds available for 2018. We will be given responsibility for this later. Then we can see it even more accurately. That quarter-minute maker is going to make a report on the question: how should we proceed to the future with the OC? When the moment was there that the OC would cease to exist, I also had no need to ask for that report; I say it openly. That report had no value to me anymore, because that was about the future: "Where should the OC go? How are we supposed to do that? Should we perhaps take care of the administrative structures differently?" I didn't have a need there. I understand the Chamber as well, but I didn't see it as a shock that I didn't get that report on my desk. I did not ask for that either, but I hear from the Chamber that she very much wants to see that report. The one who is now organizing the final settlement of the OC is called the "payer" in the jargon, which I do like, by the way. I shall pass on to him the wish of the Chamber to see that report. I do not need a motion for that. I think it's a he, maybe it's a hair; it doesn't matter. Then it is up to them to decide whether or not they want to give that report. That has to do with the legal status of such an organization. But I will pass on that wish and report to you, hopefully with a report, on its outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u35	That's good. Then perhaps we can discuss this further, should we need it. What I just don't understand so well is this. We've made a whole timeline. We have made an evaluation, a review of the Education Cooperation. There's a new report on teachers. I don't understand why the Minister said so quickly: this was so OC-related, I didn't need it anymore when it turned out that the organisation was being shut down. At a time when something is threatening to go wrong and someone is being appointed to make improvements to it, it is not surprising to think that the lessons that are drawn from it can be very useful to all of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u36	The quartermaster was put to work at the moment when one still assumed that one could go on for years, so to speak, even though there was discussion about the OC, the administration and the basis for it. By the way, these people have done their work in good conscience and have stuck their necks out. It is not good for them either that it ended this way, but that has become a given, also a political one. In that office, plans were made for the future and the Chamber made an intervention by means of a Van Meenen/Rog motion, which received a large majority. I didn't recommend the motion, but I finally said on the basis of the results of it myself: okay, but then we're really gonna change our direction. So after everything that has been done in such an office about the future, of course, I assume that everything will be neatly stored in the archive, in accordance with the deadlines that apply to it, I had no need of it anymore, I didn't need it anymore, because we went in a completely different line. That's why I didn't ask. But again, if the Chamber wants it, I'll serve her. You were the one who was really worried about that and worried about it. So I hope I can serve you with a report later. I will at least pass on that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u37	Anyway, thank you for that. That's good. After the decision of the OC to stop, we have used an intensive route of look-backs, evaluations, a new report and actual questions. I still do not understand why the Minister should include such a report, in which there are undoubtedly things about the way in which the profession is organized, at least, I assume, since the most obvious point of criticism was, in particular, the acceptance of such an easy move away. Anyway, let's talk about that the moment we, hopefully, get that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr Kwint must bear in mind that I have done something else. I didn't say: I don't need to know anything at all; okay, annoying, we look over the shoulder and then full of gas again; annoying that this has happened, but we're going to do something else now. No, I did two things. First of all, I had an independent evaluation, because there were signs that there was also a financial error. I've told you that openly. You know me: I try to provide you with as much information as possible. We have also discussed this today. I asked the ADR, independently, to make that report. You got that report, and I'll come back to that later. There are a number of lessons in this, which we can really learn from and which we must also take to heart, even when it comes to how we use money, public resources. The second thing I did was ask Rinnooy Kan, also on the basis of his previous expertise, to give advice about the future. I have not followed that report in everything, but I think it is a very valuable report, because I think it has revealed very well why it may not go well in the way we have done it in recent years. In short, these two reports - you know them - have been the basis for me to see how we should proceed now. At least I didn't need a report coming from the inside, from an organization we've already said: we're done, we're done. But who knows, it might provide some interesting insights. I don't expect that, by the way. But we'll see. Mr. Chairman. That's like the bridge to my second part: the lessons we have to learn. First of all, in the context of that ADR report, the question of how we deal with subsidies, even if they go to private organised parties. It has become clear that the supervision of financial management is not so transparent. That doesn't mean that money was thrown over there. One has always had to answer, accountants have looked at it, you name it. The scope of the client, who says what needs to be done, is that there needs to be more transparency. There must be a clearer supervisory vision and a clearer supervisory arrangement; financial supervision must also be much more risk-oriented. You can find all this on page 14 of the ADR report. Those are the opinions that we are now taking. Because if there were to be new subsidy relationships, even on these kinds of issues, that would have to be really different in our view. The second lesson is that the ownership of teachers is crucial. That is why Mr Rinnooy Kan's report, which I am very grateful for having done this work, has been very important. At the moment that ownership is not felt and experienced, perhaps in numbers, given the unions and the supporters of it and the trade union, but if one feels in everything that it is coming back from above anyway, and one thinks: there is another government above that which is steering and which has an interest in it and which perhaps... Well, just fill in what we haven't heard in the last few years, but then it's actually out of the question. The teachers, the teachers, must feel the owner of that professional organisation. Only then can there be a representative organisation that can speak rightly on behalf of teachers in the Netherlands. We're looking forward to it. Despite the fact that there are a lot of groups around subjects, there is not really such an organisation, which we sometimes see in other professional groups, sometimes they are difficult. Anyway, that ownership is crucial. As a result, a third lesson can be learned. If you want such a professional formation to take place, the government must really keep its distance. I'm just going to say it in a visual way: at the moment when the government's fingerprints get on the stage of formation, you're just done. Then it's just not gonna work. Mr Rinnooy Kan went a little further in the recommendations of his important report. He said, "Get a plan of action." At least that was something we had to do. We also had to make sure that people were appointed from different groups who could take the lead, a sort of scout. But then we're gonna point them out again. So I did say on that part that I think it would be better not to do so, also looking at the lessons that we have to learn. In any case, that is a lesson I have learned from the way it has gone in recent years. I don't really feel like doing it that way right now. Then maybe in a few years we'll be carrying another OC 2.0 grave or something. I think we really need to avoid that. Mr. Chairman. That is my little bridge to the third subject, the professional formation. How does the Minister see this, asked Mrs Westerveld very clearly to me. I follow it with interest, of course, but I do think that I should just keep my distance and let the profession itself think and take initiatives that really come from themselves. Then you're intrinsically motivated to do it. The question is, of course, how long will you wait? Of course, I asked myself that question when I made the choice to do it this way. I thought, I don't know; maybe I should wait a year or... I thought: we're going to see; let me not burden myself with that for a moment, even when it comes to deadlines. I must say that I am pleasantly surprised by the movements that have arisen in the meantime. For example, the BVMBO is a movement that was already there, but which has actually come forward and has said: we would like something. The teachers from the Teachers' Room also said: we would like something. They're people with names. They have shown themselves to be teachers of pur sang, with a heart for education and also for representing and promoting their profession. You haven't brought up the Teachers' Parliament anymore. I'm gonna do that for a little while. I found it rather difficult to say: I'm sorry, but if I let it come from below, I can't let them continue with the subsidy. So we had to send them a very nasty message, namely that the subsidy was to end on 1 January of this calendar year. We still had some ongoing commitments with them. They had until the summer the hours of work, so I call it just old-fashioned for this work. We didn't get that. By the way, a few people gave it back. But those teachers are still coming together. They're still out there. They too may have ambitions; I do not know. We'll see about that. But they're still here. I also think it's pretty cool to see that they're still holding each other and talking to each other and thinking about the future, because there were all kinds of excited people in there. We just had to let them down. There was no other way. But they were full of them. The teachers' collective has been mentioned by some of you. It's about us not unknown names, I'll say right away. I have great respect for the fact that they dare to stick their necks out like that. Because I'm not saying it's easy to get teachers behind you to get better working conditions and raise salaries, because it's not, but this is another chapter. It is a bit more complicated to make this a very broad representation, but they are working on it. I'm following it with interest. Through social media they keep us informed of the support and support they have now, so I also see that those numbers are growing. They have set a kind of limit for themselves: if we're at 10,000, then it's really serious and then we're going to take a next step. I'll just wait and see. Let me mention another one. The unions themselves say, of course, that we also represent the teachers, not only when it comes to working conditions; we also do other things for them. That's true. They were connected to the OC, and they didn't, but of course they're still just full-right representatives of the teachers. So there are all kinds of new flowers that hurry up, and there are flowers that sometimes bloom for a long time and still retain their color. There's a lot going on. I'm just gonna wait and see. One might come forward at some point. Then we will have to consider in all wisdom how we might support it. I am not ruling that out either, as I say to the Chamber openly, but I am not saying anything either. Mr Van Meenen asked for it very directly. Eventually, we need to feel like it's gonna be something. I will involve the Chamber if further steps are taken. We have to come to the conclusion that this is finally something we have faith in, where the acceptance and ownership are felt so that we can say with confidence that it is really going to be something. I would like to say to Mrs Westerveld that there is indeed a multitude of parties in the field of education. Two of them had disappeared by now, at least those subsidised: the AC and the Teachers' Parliament which still exists, but no longer as a subsidised party. Of course that happens often: something disappears again and there may also be some more. You're gonna have to talk very sharply about what their position is, if it's really gonna be something. But I'm not going to impose all that from above, because then those fingerprints of mine will get back on it, and then you know what's gonna happen. I just don't want to. I would like it so much if something very broad would come about from the basics, because I do think it can have added value. Time will tell. How long it's gonna take, we can't control ourselves. For the past few months I have seen a few things that are very beautiful and surprising. It's nice that this is moving so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u39	The Minister wants to see if there's anything broad coming up. For a moment I have put the spotlight on something that is narrow: professional associations of kindergarten teachers, academic teachers, MBO teachers. They're all there and they're really from the bottom up. They did not need a government that said: I wonder if they are going to organize themselves. They have done so themselves because they themselves need it. They also want to be partners. Will the Minister take into account a level playing field for these genuine associations that have really come from the bottom up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u40	Yes, there are. That is a reality that we are dealing with. You do feel that a number of initiatives are really trying to connect both po and vo in width. Of course, that's very powerful. In his report, Mr Rinnooy Kan indicated that it could also be done through sub-areas; then it might grow into a larger whole. Let us just wait and see what happens and how these organisations manifest themselves when it comes to professional formation and when they want to be the voice of teachers and teachers, also towards the government and other parties with which education needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u41	My point is that the Minister now seems to be focusing very much on 'we must have an interlocutor'. I think that the profession organises itself, finds everything and wants to be an interlocutor. I would think: let these different associations, which have a specific target group, be interlocutors. If there is another group and if the Minister would like to subsidise it with the support of the Chamber, then I would say: let there also be a level playing field for those narrower groups that were mentioned in that famous report by Rinnooy as possibly valuable as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u42	I am simply taking note of this view at the moment. It is indeed a view that you can also have on the whole. I have already indicated that I will involve the Chamber if further steps are taken. Then perhaps we can focus the debate a little more, because then there may also be a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u43	I said in my contribution how many different organizations we have in education. I like that very much. I myself have been active in the past at both a large national student organisation and the education union. It is very nice that you see in different places how initiatives emerge from the bottom up, how people unite in all kinds of ways in education, both in terms of content and working conditions. The reason I asked the Minister for his opinion is that I need a little more clarification on how the Minister sees such a new profession, to which Rinnooy Kan refers in his opinion. Does the Minister consider that as a new sparring partner or does he say: no, I'm really waiting and we'll see when they report to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u44	That last one. That's right. I'm waiting for that now. I also await the views of those involved about what their focus and purpose should be and how they should be involved in things. If I'm gonna determine that from above, I'm gonna destroy it so to speak. I don't want to do that at all, because I think it's fantastic that that movement at the base is going on like this right now. Of course, I also think that you should respect other parties in the field, who have been in the field for years and years, and indeed I have memories of you in certain positions in that regard. If we look at the AC and the fact that it was related to the trade unions and trade unions, where we thought that we would make the connection with the teachers, we can see that this has never been experienced by teachers in this way and that it has ultimately led to the abolition of the AC. That's a lesson we have to learn. We will also have to focus on whether it is really perceived as something of their own or whether they see it again as an extension of other things, because then you know that we are going to run risks again for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u45	I get that answer. I would like to ask the Minister to stay in good conversation with both the new initiatives and the existing organisations to see what exactly is needed and what we can do for each other. I do not mean that the Minister is going to decide how to organise the field, but that the Minister remains in dialogue with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u46	I always want to talk to everyone. However, I have noticed that not everyone always wants to talk to me, because sometimes they have made demands that make sure that we suddenly do not see people anymore. I'd like to talk to them, because I have a lot of things that are important right now, but they're not there, they're not coming. Then they usually stand on a field demonstrating, which is also part of their task, so they might do that very well. I hear Mrs Westerveld say that she is also there. That's right. You're standing right there. Of course, I'll just stay in conversation where I can, if that's what people want. The latter is sometimes complicated, I have noticed, but it seems to be part of my work as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u47	The temptation is enormous to have a discourse on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u48	That was entrapment, I admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u49	Completely against my nature, I'll let this go a little bit. But for the history of the Education Cooperation I say: yes, it went wrong. It has not become enough of, for and by the teachers. There is a great deal of reference, which is partly right to refer to the parties involved, but at least as great a reason, at least in our analysis, for the final failure of the Education Co-operation, is that it was responsible for carrying out an extremely unpopular cabinet measure of the previous cabinet: the teacher register. How does the Minister view this relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u50	That's a very nice little bridge to my last part: the teacher register. That has indeed been a little bit of pressure on the work to be done. I became a minister in a cabinet that made very clear agreements in the government agreement, the well-known 'from, before and through'. If we are talking about fingerprints, then we know a few of them on that subject, also knowing how the discussion took place in a previous cabinet period. I have had the conviction, and at least the drive, for some time to see if, on the basis of what had been built up over the past few years, I could slowly but surely complete that transformation to "from, before and through" with those who were also involved at the time, including the now old OC administration and the organisations behind it. In the end, we found that the OC was no longer viable. In the end, I have also come to the conclusion that if we were to pursue that cabinet position of 'from, before and through' in the way that we have tried in the past year I have tried it and it went well until March last year that will not work anymore. I'm sorry, I was pointing a certain direction, but I think that was just a coincidence. A reflex. I finally let go of that trail. You were able to read that in my last letter. There's no obligation anymore. We did not go as far as the SP might want, together with the SGP in any case, to immediately delete everything from a law. The SP and the SGP also want to delete the professional status. To be honest, I find that incomprehensible. A professional statute is extremely important for teachers, because it forces their directors to make agreements with them on matters that are important for their profession. That's something incomprehensible in that bill. I haven't had that in my hands yet, but I know this is in there. Why don't we just cancel the teacher register? That's the next reason. There's no obligation. In this cabinet period, let us assume for a moment that we will be there until the end, and that we will no longer take any initiative with regard to the teacher register. There will be no obligation on the part of the cabinet. However, we leave open the possibility of using the teacher register on a voluntary basis. This is a choice that ultimately lies with the teachers. As you know, there is also an obligation on the employer to keep track of a teacher's competence file. It comes from another law. That obligation is there. Mr. Chairman. This is what we've come up with. To be honest, I think that is a very nice and generous gesture to the teachers. They can choose. If they choose to use the teacher register's portfolio voluntarily, they have it in their own hands and in their own direction. The employer's obligation to keep track of the competence file will then lapse. If we do not want to be connected to that register of teachers, we respect that choice, but on the other hand we must keep a record of competence by the employer. The teacher then hands that over to his driver. He can have every confidence in that, and he can. That's a choice that teachers make. We're not forcing them to do anything. We have told the driver for a long time that he is obliged to provide all the data. That's what the law said, but that obligation has expired. The same applies here: if there are no data, it becomes difficult for teachers to work with a portfolio. Then we'll fall back on the competence file. So that's in the hands of the drivers. If the data is handed over and teachers do not want their names in it, they can opt out. It's not that complicated. I've seen links on social media going around with which they can do that. They can take advantage of that. That's up to them, and that's up to them. Via teacher's portfolio.nl they can join and unsubscribe. The choice between self-doing through the teacher register and leaving it to the employer through the competence file lies with teachers. Of course, you always have consultation with your employer. That is the situation at the moment, and as far as I am concerned, that is the situation for this whole cabinet period. Mr Van Meenen asked if we would still have harassed them with all kinds of letters. It is true that at the beginning of January a letter was sent to the boards concerning the provision of data. That letter did not take into account the changes I had just sent to the Chamber. Very annoying. Of course, I was also called upon to do so: what kind of letter is this? I had exactly the same question: what kind of letter is this? That's been an omission. It recovered very quickly. So there are two letters to the boards about data delivery. The first one got into the shredder. The other reflected the current state of affairs as I just put it. The teachers who have applied for the teacher register have received a kind of welcome letter. I don't think you'll mind. They volunteered and received a letter. Those are the letters that were sent. As far as I am concerned, there is no longer any reason to send letters on this subject in the near future. So how's it going in the future? In this cabinet period, we don't do anything anymore. If a professional group was ever formed according to the principle of "from, before, by," it would be able to express its opinion on this matter. It could say: if we have it under control, we can do it in a good way and we would like to keep it that way. It may also be that he eventually says: take it out of the law anyway. What other flavors are there? That's all future. In this cabinet period these are the arrangements. One more appointment is included, I say finally. That is why we think it is important for drivers to be focused on personnel policy and to make an explicit effort to create space for their teachers to be involved in this and to be in charge of it. So we are going to ask them to do the same through the robustness of the boards. A lot of executives are working on it, too. But that gives the inspection something to be able to act much more focused at the time that we notice that governing does not do anything about it. I know that you are very much in favour of the use of such instruments when something really needs to be done, so we are going to work on that as well. That's part of the entire package of the teacher register.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u51	Then I'll name the most important thing for us. Suppose: it works, and there will be one large association of the profession, for example. Can the professional group, which is going to organise itself, in whatever way they do, be assured that it is not from OCW that the question arises, or, for example, the condition for funding at a given time: are you also going to take care of the implementation of the Teachers' Register and the Professional Teacher's Act as the OC did in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u52	The coalition agreement makes it very clear that the condition is 'from, for and through'. So then they are the move; then they can decide what they want. So I'm not going to speak for them either. All I can do is make the choice that I have now made to deviate from what has been used in this area in the previous cabinet period, not to throw the child away with the bath water. I think it is very important for teachers to be able to make their own choices, but on a voluntary basis. And they're not obligated to do anything. They don't have to be registered at all; they can get their name out of it. It has of course been transferred in one file from all teachers, which has grown very quickly, also in the MBO. It was there that that obligation of the competence file expired when one started working with one's own portpolio. That also suddenly gave a lot of oxygen to look at it a bit more positively. But these are the changes I made. What will happen in the future, we shall see, but you may hold me to this, even in the years to come. Mr. Chairman. Those were the answers to the questions that were asked. I think I've passed them all successfully in the cubes. Only I still see Mr Kwint frowning with his eyebrow, so he missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u53	He's gonna keep frowning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u54	That's one of my specialties. I missed the paycheck of the quartermasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u55	I said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u56	That was very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u57	I indicated that the money was spent within the subsidy amounts provided for 2018. I said there was also a vacancy because directors had left. So in that respect, I assume that that amount has also been kept below the subsidy ceiling. But the responsibility for that will come in May. These are the deadlines for subsidised institutions. Then we know exactly what the state of affairs is and there comes a management report. Then we also know if there is any money left, etcetera, etcetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u58	I had heard that part, but I had asked very specifically about the relationship with the WNT standard for the number of hours worked, the salary paid. That's not for nothing. In written questions, the Minister states that the WNT standard was not exceeded because the contract did not last a year, but was otherwise exceeded. It's in those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u59	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u60	That's why I wanted to know: the WNT standard is about the number of hours worked, isn't it? It's not about a whole year's salary, is it? So the answer can never be: the WNT standard would have been exceeded? Then the answer is: the WNT standard has or has not been exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u61	For the entire specific information on the accountability of the spending of the funds that went to the OC for 2018, we simply need the final accountability, which will be finally delivered in May. Then we can also take a very specific look at what happened there and where the money went. No extra money has been made available by us. That's what you asked for. All this has happened within the subsidy amount, but that responsibility has yet to come. Then we can also look more specifically at whether or not to exceed the WNT. We were getting signals that they would go beyond that. At least we got the report back that that wasn't the case, with the motivation you just referred to. But the final report with the final responsibility is yet to come; I hope to see that in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u62	I asked a number of questions about OCW's grant policy. I asked the Minister if we could get an overview of this, because I get the impression that a whole number of these amounts have grown so historically. Maybe it's not, but I'd like to have a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u63	Subsidies are provided, and we make clear in budgets where we want money to go for the year after that. The financial aspect is also part of the budgetary treatment process. We sometimes talk a little less about this, because we often talk very much about policy issues. So we always answer for that. I have indicated that, on the basis of the ADR report, we have received a number of assignments concerning the directives around them, the requirements we make and how we organise supervision. We will also take these tasks to heart for the future. But budgetary treatment is also a time every year to point out the amounts that are being provided and to ask for clarification. You can always do that; you are assertive enough for that. During the budgetary procedure, you can also make proposals to the Chamber if the cabinet says that it wants to subsidise certain organisations and you want something else. This is simply part of an orderly budgetary procedure between the Chamber and the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u64	I also asked a number of questions about this in the budget to your fellow Minister. I am particularly concerned about getting a little more insight into the choices that are being made, because it is very difficult to monitor such a budget properly, especially when it comes to subsidies to organisations, when it is very difficult to find the basis on which those choices are based.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u65	Of course, we never go through all the posts; in any case, the Chamber does not ask for them. However, I do remember a number of subsidies which we have also debated fairly intensively here. Think, for example, of the teacher's scholarship and the surplus there was. This has ultimately led to an amendment from the Chamber which has received a large majority, which has made a slightly different choice. So you are always free to debate this. Perhaps this will be an advance on the next budget debate, in which this could perhaps be given a little more attention. We are happy to answer for the choices we have made in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u66	Fine. I imagine the Chamber doesn't need a second term. Mr Van Meenen does, I see. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr President, thank you. It's a good thing we've been through this as well. I imagine you don't need a second term, but I do; I'm sorry. Let me just read out one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of forming a professional and broad-based group of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Ministry can contribute to the formation of a professional group and to develop different scenarios for financial support, such as through the lump sum or a separate grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u68	I have a question about the last part of the operative part, which asks to describe scenarios for financial support. I think that D66 is taking a very big step forward there, because is this financial support really necessary? In my view, it is a good thing that the Minister is reluctant to do so at the moment. My question is therefore whether one of the scenarios can also be that the Minister says: we are not going to do money there. I think that is a very important scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u69	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u70	A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice in common, and now Mr Van Meenen does it again. In the debate, the Minister warned so clearly about an Education Co-operation 2.0-debacle. And even before there's even one organization on it, Mr Van Meenen wants to have another investigation to see if there's some money in the ministry somewhere to get something done. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with the Minister that this will fail as soon as the government puts its fingerprints on this? Let us please do nothing, as the Minister said, and wait and see which of these initiatives is actually going to be something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u71	We have all read that there are many reasons why the training of the profession has not been successful. One of them isn't that the government put money in it. It goes wrong especially if the government really starts putting its fingerprints on it and really is going to make it more government than the teachers themselves. Then it's gonna go wrong. This does not happen if, for example, you say at such a first stage that we are going to make available the money that is still in existence before the Education Co-operation for such a start. That could be a scenario, for example. Another scenario is to talk to the VO-Council and the PO-Council so that from the lumpsum we provide so far, not only the memberships of the PO-Council and the VO-Council are paid, but that from that lumpsum we also contribute to its formation. So it doesn't have to cost the government any extra money to get that profession started. I don't think that's gonna go wrong. It doesn't go wrong until the government gets involved in the substance of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Hul? No? Mrs Westerveld has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr. Chairman. It's good to hear more of the Minister's motivation. Well, at least we'll have more clarity about how he sees it. The involvement of teachers must always be guaranteed. They really need to talk about the policy. I had a number of questions about this in my introduction and I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the implementation of education policy is often agreed in administrative and sectoral agreements;]] [[noting that these agreements are often concluded with directors, while the impact often has a direct impact on teachers' work;]] [[Whereas it is important for a strong profession that teachers also have control over policy;]] [[calls on the government to always involve (representatives of) teachers in agreements it concludes with the field of education;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-363]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr President, thank you. It's nice that we may be able to see the work of the quartermaster. I can only stress the importance of all those involved: let us see that report too! However, I do not quite understand why the Minister himself had not asked this. The mission wasn't just about the future. It was also an evaluation, a review of processes. How was it done so far? What do we have to do to deliver on this important task? I think that would be helpful. I think it would be useful for us, too. I look forward to taking lessons from that report. I wish the teachers every success, in whatever way they decide to organise themselves or not. That leaves the point of the quartermaster's salary, because I find the answer curious. The WNT would have been exceeded if someone had worked longer. That's not how the law works. The WNT has been exceeded or not. The final figures follow. As far as we're concerned, minimal is happening, it happens to be on the back of my term in the form of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quartermaster of the Education Co-operative may have remained formally below the standard as defined in the WNT only because his assignment was completed within one year;]] [[noting that the quartermaster's salary would have exceeded the ministerial standard on a monthly basis;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, after delivery of the final figures, whether it is possible to recover the salary paid to the quartermaster from the quartermaster,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-364]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the Van Meenen motion, in part No. 362. I do not advise them, because it is not my responsibility, as I have already indicated here, to look at the initiatives in this way. I have indicated that at the moment when I am notified and I see a perspective in it, I do not rule out the possibility of funding. I'll get the Chamber involved. That's the deal I made with you. I advise against this motion, but in line with this motion, I have indicated to you how I intend to deal with this issue. Mr. Chairman. The motion by Mrs Westerveld and others, in part No. 363, I also advise against. Not because of the content, but because a similar motion has already been adopted by Mr Rog. We have indicated that we want to work in this way, even if new agreements are concluded. So this motion is unnecessary. We agreed that if a motion is really unnecessary, I'd advise her. So I'm not doing that because of the content, but because we've already agreed on it. Mr Rog has already put it very clearly to the Chamber in a statement. And it is also basically just standing policy that, wherever possible, we are trying to organise that involvement. Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 364. I have indicated that if there is also financial accountability, we can look more closely at how the funds were spent in 2018, also in relation to the quartermaster. The quartermaster wasn't doing an evaluation; the quartermaster was making new plans, and I indicated that I didn't need to, because we were quitting the OC. But I'll pass on the request. I advise against this motion. We will continue the debate as soon as the financial accountability is there. I hope, therefore, that I have a good message that if there is any money left, we will find a good destination for that. I think the Chamber has made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you. So much for this dramatic debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-10.u77	I thank the Minister for his presence. The votes will take place next Tuesday.
