ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the own-initiative proposal 34231, the proposal for a law of Members Van Oosten, Keiken and Grothuizen amending Book 1 of the Civil Code and any other laws relating to the revision of the system of partner alimony, i.e. the Partner Alimony Review Act. I call Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Kuik, who has just had a wonderful success, and welcome the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u3	Madam President, thank you very much. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to express my appreciation to the initiators. I congratulate Mrs Kuik in particular on her initiative law, which has just been adopted. I hope she'll be able to keep this up today. I would also like to mention Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Wijngaarden, and of course the supporters who have cooperated and wrote along. This is a very special bill. It's come a long way. I congratulate the authors on bringing the legislative proposal to this point. I wish them every success in this last stage and, as far as we are concerned, the most important one. With every legislative proposal, we ask ourselves: is there a problem? And if so, does this bill contribute to solving the problem? Both questions are answered in the affirmative by my group. The current 12-year period is not conducive to the economic independence of the recipient. The longer a person is out of work, the harder the return becomes. From this perspective, twelve years is too long. The payer must also be able to start a new relationship, but alimony can have a heavy impact on the budget. Sometimes the new partner has to make a substantial contribution in order to meet the maintenance obligations of the ex. Alimony leads to more procedures, because twelve years is considered unjust. It is a large group and every year 2,500 are added. In recent years there had been a legal practice in which a maintenance period was imposed less than 12 years. Recently, the Supreme Court has decided otherwise. Twelve years is 12 years. This is the case in the law and derogations must be subject to very strict justification requirements. If we want to follow the growing legal practice and move towards shorter periods, this will require a legislative change. For my group, these problems are very serious. We believe that the legislative proposal is an important response to these problems. The bill reduces the length of alimony from 12 years to five years. That sounds short and concise, but it is also extremely effective. Five years is enough preparation for return to work or for expansion of existing work. In five years you can take a complete university course, but of course also all kinds of other shorter preparations for a new job. A five-year period encourages much more than 12 years of economic independence. Five years is considered more acceptable and will result in fewer procedures. The initiative proposal does not just wave the blunt axe. It also allows exceptions for particular situations. If there are children, there is a maximum of 12 years. Older people who are close to their AOW have a maximum of ten years. And for people over 50 years of age, there is a transitional arrangement that expires in seven years. The VVD Group supports these exceptions to the main rule. These recipients are in an exceptional position. In addition, the exceptions are limited in time to the moment when the particular situation ends due to the age of the elderly or to the age of the children. There is a hardness clause to provide for customization in distressing cases. The preliminary report pointed out that a hardness clause could lead to new harrowing cases. It has been proposed to include poignant cases in the law. My group does not share this view. It is impossible to provide for all exceptional cases, let alone all the circumstances of those cases. That calls for customization from the judge. The hardness clause then serves as a basis for correcting the law. If the hardness clause is codified, it will be part of the law. A new hardness clause is then needed in order to resolve unforeseen and poignant cases. Thus a codification of distressing cases has no added value, much less value: summa lex, summa iniuria. Madam President. The legislative proposal offers a balanced settlement, but besides this initiative there is already a lot of existing policies. Yesterday in the news: 7,000 single mothers from welfare. There is a lot of research and there are many measures aimed at improving the labour market position of women. My group has a question about this. There's a report from the Social Cultural Planning Bureau entitled Our Money. That report indicates that good division of labour during the relationship is considered to be more important than economic independence. This opinion is addressed to policy makers. What does the government do with this advice from the Social Cultural Planning Office? An important aspect of this legislative proposal is whether it leads to fewer procedures. The fraction of the VVD expects the number of procedures to decrease due to increasing economic independence of recipients and increased acceptance by payers. But there is another factor, namely subsidised legal aid. My group has the impression that recipients of alimony rely more on subsidised legal aid than alimony payers and that this imbalance leads to more procedures. Not only in alimony disputes, but also in re-schemes. Is our impression correct? If so, will the Minister include this aspect in his policy on subsidised legal aid? Madam President. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is much more limited than the original 2015 initiative. Much has been deleted, in particular the allocation basis and the calculation system. These points were given the necessary attention in another place. The applicants have listened carefully to the opinions of the Council of State and to the wishes of the House of Representatives. The feasibility was paramount and the most important point was the reduction of the deadline from twelve to five years. Apparently important changes in personal and family law go with a lot of emotion, with small steps and with a decision period of about twenty years. Examples are the legal distribution in favour of the survivor in inheritance law, marriage in the community of goods and the 12-year term for the partner alimony in 1994. My group very much appreciates the wise self-limitation of the proposers in this follow-up step. It has led to a majority of 142 votes in the House of Representatives. We can't get those numbers here. The corresponding majority in the First Chamber is 70 votes in favour. The VVD Group will participate wholeheartedly in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u5	Madam President. This contribution to the plenary debate is also on behalf of the 50PLUS Group, not only on behalf of my own group, the CDA, but also the 50PLUS Group. Firstly, a word of appreciation for the initiators. We are aware that there is a great deal to be done in the submission of such a draft law. We believe that they have done so very carefully. However, it is a strong short-watched bill. The original bill, as submitted by the initiators to the House of Representatives, provided for a fundamental change in the partner alimony system, as we have known since 1 July 1994 in the Netherlands. The initiators considered that the partner alimony should be fairer, simpler and shorter. They wanted to change the basis, simplify the method of calculation and reduce the duration. In short, there were three objectives. After considerable substantive criticism by the Council of State and various experts, taken over by a majority of political groups in the House of Representatives, the initiators dropped two of the three objectives. I think this was realistic. All proposals concerning the basis of calculation for partner alimony, the role of the new partners, the calculation system, the making of agreements in the prenup, the expiry of indexation and the nullity of a clause excluding partner alimony have been deleted. What remains now is the shortening of the duration of partner alimony from 12 to 5 years in both cases, with the exception of three situations, where a longer period of up to 10 years and up to 12 years is possible. The exceptions were further detailed and carefully explained in the reply. Firstly, we believe that we have sufficient information. I will therefore confine my contribution to three main points. Social unrest has arisen, see also the letter of 13 May last from the Working Party on Economic Self-Employees of WOUW. This immediately brings us to the point and the need to legally limit the duration of partner alimony. The reply and the letter from the Government show that the number of cases in which partner alimony is granted decreases significantly, in particular in the situation that the person who is required to alimony is under 40 years of age. On the one hand, this may be due to the decrease in the number of marriages and registered partnerships. We have already noted this in another legislative proposal, namely the one on the limitation of the Community of Goods. On the other hand, it may be due to the fact that partners are increasingly equal in economic terms. In this sense, you might conclude that the social changes are already taking place, as the initiators see them in mind. We are therefore not convinced that limiting the duration of partner alimony from a maximum of 12 years to a maximum of five years should be a necessary part of a successful emancipation policy. Sometimes, as legislators, we may be a little behind in what is already happening in society. In essence, the changes of 1 July 1994 in the system have really led to a trend break. We therefore believe that the right to alimony dates from 1838 and that therefore the duration of up to 12 years should be reduced to a maximum of five years, which seems archaic and unnecessarily ideological. We are more interested in the facts, and in particular in the facts of part-time work: the number of women working part-time in the Netherlands, the number of men working part-time and, above all, what they earn and the available income of men or women working part-time. After all, we live in a society of one and a half earners. Isn't it a suggestion that we wait for the mentioned ibo studies first? The Minister for Legal Protection announced the publication of these reports in the short term. We then have an insight into the most recent figures for the employment rate of women and men, the proportion of part-time workers and the level of income available. Our question to the initiators is therefore whether we should wait for this before a major change in the duration of the partner maintenance right is applied. In addition, the question arises as to whether there is not much more nuance in current legal practice with regard to the maximum period of 12 years. In the letter of 13 May last, the figures of the working party on economic independence rightly ask themselves whether it is not necessary to examine first how many alimony recipients are currently entitled to alimony benefits for a maximum period of 12 years and how much of them are suspended in the interim following a change in personal circumstances. It is not only qualitatively necessary to define utility and necessity, but also, above all, quantitatively justified. We look forward to the reaction of the initiators and the government to this. Secondly, we remain deeply concerned about the position of the economically weaker women of today still at the end of 40, beginning of 50. We are grateful to the initiators for their answers, in which they have again explained clearly how the two exceptions laid down in the law will have to be applied. But we are afraid that in a number of cases this will not help. And then the hardness clause will have to be invoked. Then, with the help of a lawyer, the child supporter will have to invoke that hardness clause. There too, the government explained this in its letter, and in response to a question from us on this point, the grounds for applying that hardness clause have been worked out. We are grateful to the initiators for having taken the trouble to mention a case position in response to our questions. At the same time, we are also quite sensitive to the argument that you cannot, of course, lay down the whole of the case now in the law. Nevertheless, I would like to know how that works for a woman or a man who has taken care of as a partner and, after fourteen years of marriage or registered partnership, sees the commitment end at 49th year. How real is it then that after five years of partner alimony, the caring partner can fully provide his or her income up to the age of AOW? Can the initiators go into that again, because it is precisely those cases that can be very poignant. By the way, the initiators also show understanding; let that be said. So it's not like we're in a black and white discussion here. Madam President. My final point is that the initiators refer to the case law of the Supreme Court. See page 10 of the reply. It concerns the ruling of 8 March last year and that of 4 May last year. In both cases, the Hoge Raad imposes requirements on the termination of a maintenance obligation within the twelve-year period. How do the initiators now use this case law? If I have misunderstood that, I would like to hear it, but apparently they do so as follows: the Supreme Court makes it difficult to shorten the twelve-year term, so the legislator has to do so. We heard that Mr Schouwenaar was actually saying as well. But can't you look at it differently? Can you not also say that the Supreme Court judges in specific situations and has considered here that the withdrawal or the expiry of lot bonding cannot be grounds for termination of the maintenance obligation? A contrario: there may be other grounds that could justify such a reduction in maintenance obligations, such as earning capacity in the maintenance creditor or less earning capacity of the maintenance creditor or a combination of the two, whatever the legal practice. On the contrary, does the recent statements of the Supreme Court not show that there really is no need for a change in law, because divorce practice, case law and social developments have already developed in this direction, as the initiators have in mind, without poignant cases being the victim of a reduction in the duration of up to 12 years to five years? Would the initiators and the government want to reflect on this? Madam President, we await with interest the answers of the initiators and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. What I find bewildering is that you have done it exactly in the time you have given. My bell's right on zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u7	I've seen you look. Then I thought, "Now I need to speed things up."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u8	That's right. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I am also speaking on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Our groups welcome the initiators to the Upper House. Mrs Kuik, in particular, seems to have a taste, now that she is defending a legislative proposal in two successive meetings in this Chamber. We thank the authors and thank the government for their written answers. Mr. Chairman. The initiators consider that the current duration of the partner alimony should be adjusted. They point out that the long term in society is perceived as unjust and prevents partners from taking on their own lives after a divorce. That is why they want to reduce the maximum time limit to five years. At the same time, they recognise that this may cause problems for some of the alimony beneficiaries, mostly women, to provide for their own livelihoods and have included some articles of law to address this problem. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State criticised the unilateral basis in the original legislative proposal. This relied only on the reduced earning capacity of the creditor partner and not on the fate of partners, as set out in Article 1.81 of the Civil Code. In our view, the Council of State was right to point this out. We are pleased that the authors of the present legislative proposal have responded to these concerns. In the reply, the applicants say that change of the basis is not feasible at the moment and has insufficient support both in the Lower House and in society. Should our groups understand from this that the authors themselves still believe that, in principle, destiny should not be the basis of the legislative proposal? We would like to hear what arguments they have for this. Applicants and government opt for a maximum of five years and assume that this is sufficient to adapt to the new situation after a divorce. A longer period hinders ex-partners in their view to tackle their own lives and does not contribute to increasing women's economic independence. That may be the case, but reducing the deadline to five years does not automatically mean that both ex-partners are able to take up their own lives, nor that they contribute to greater economic autonomy for women. In our view, this will require more. In the written input, our political groups referred to the worrying figures of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the CBS. Empowerment is progressing in many ways. However, in one area it does not succeed: not all women are economically independent. In many relationships the man remains primarily responsible for the income and the woman for the care. Although the percentage of women in paid employment is increasing, the reality is that most of the working women do so part-time. The Netherlands is a part-time champion for women, which in the eyes of our groups is not something to be pleased with. While we see that the law could work as a stick behind the door or, in a positive way, as an incentive towards a fair division of labour and care, we believe that much more is needed in order to achieve economic independence. My question to the authors is whether they agree with us. If so, what measures do they consider necessary? How do they intend to prevent women from getting unwanted assistance as a result of this bill? In the written reply to this point, the government mentions seven measures already taken - including Mr Schouwenaar referred to this - and points to an interdepartmental inquiry into part-time work, the results of which go to the Lower House after the summer, accompanied by a cabinet position. Our groups would like the Minister's undertaking that the First Chamber will also receive these results and the cabinet's position. We are disappointed at the Government's response that it does not intend to come up with any further plans in the light of the many policies already in place. We find that too easy. The study is expected to answer the question as to why women work part-time in our country much more than in other countries. In our view, this has to do not only with barriers to the labour market, but also with traditional roles and views on the position of men and women. In other words, it is also a cultural problem, and breaking it is complicated and difficult. Does the Minister share this analysis? Our groups therefore ask the Minister once again to come forward with additional measures in line with the results of the IOB report on part-time work and the policies already in place. On this point, we would like to join the Buitenweg motion tabled in the House of Representatives, in which the government is asked to investigate the unequal distribution of paid work and care responsibilities between women and men and to make proposals on how obstacles can be removed. The proposal deviates for three groups of alimony beneficiaries from the general measure to reduce partner alimony to a maximum of five years and also includes a hardness clause for distressing cases. Our groups share the need for certain derogations. As has already been said, we do not yet live in a world in which women are economically independent. The first example concerns the group of alimony beneficiaries who have been married for at least 15 years and have been removed from their AOW age for 10 years. They are entitled to a maximum of 10 years of partner alimony. We are in agreement with that. After all, for this group of women it can be difficult, if not impossible, to provide for their own livelihood after a divorce. Then the group was born on or before 1 January 1970 and again married for at least 15 years. This group is entitled to partner alimony for a maximum of 10 years and this measure expires after seven years. We have a question here. Let's say you've been married 50, over 15 years. You'll get ten years of partner support, and if it stops, you'll be 60. What happens after that? Are you supposed to provide your own livelihood after that? Or can you then get alimony again until the age of AOW? This has not been made clear to us from the written reply. The last group concerns those entitled to child support with the care of young children. This group is entitled to a maximum of 12 years of partner alimony, depending on the age of the youngest child at the time of divorce. Our groups think that this period is very long, if not too long. In response to our question whether the initiators agree with us that return to the labour market will become more difficult as people have no longer worked, they indicate that this is the case in the current situation. At the moment, according to the applicants, the maximum period is 12 years; this will only be the case in exceptional cases. Can they explain what they mean by this? What are the exceptions? How big is this group of alimony beneficiaries? And why do the proposers find it justified that nothing in fact changes for this group? For the group of 50 years and older, a temporary measure has been chosen, based on the expectation that future generations of 50+ will be more economically independent. But doesn't the same apply to the group of child support recipients with young children? Would it not have made sense to opt for a temporary arrangement for this group as well? I'd like an answer from the proposers. In its written response, the government also expresses little ambition with regard to this group and sees no need for specific actions. Our groups see this need. We are talking about a large group that still has a working life ahead of them and often they are women. The sooner they are able to provide their own livelihood, the better that is for themselves and for society. Does the Minister agree with us? What measures are needed to prevent this particular group of women from staying out of work for too long? Will the Minister promise our political groups that he will explicitly include the effects of the law on this group of alimony beneficiaries in the evaluation and also assess whether there is any reason to amend the bill in this respect? Another point we would like to see come back to in the evaluation. The bill contains a hardness clause for distressing cases. Will the Minister undertake to make an explicit assessment of whether, and in what situations, this hardness clause has been used? Then the position of people living together. Our groups have asked why the law does not apply to this group. In the written reply, applicants and government indicate that this encounters practical and legal problems. We understand this answer. However, the group of citizens who choose to enter into a relationship in a way other than marriage or a social contract is rapidly increasing. In the view of our groups, it is therefore necessary to examine further the possibilities for this group of partners to be able to make child support possible. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to do so and, on that basis, to come forward with proposals. Our final point concerns the communication of the law after it has been adopted - assuming it is adopted. Given the high percentage of divorces in our country, we consider it very important that partners who enter into a marriage or social contract are aware of the possible consequences of divorce. We would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to deal with communication. In doing so, we strongly ask for attention for the group with less capacity, as mentioned in the report of the WRR entitled Weten is not yet doing anything. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The groups of PvdA and GroenLinks agree with the proposers that the current maximum period of partner alimony needs to be adjusted, but believe that this will require more than just amending the law. We therefore await the answers to our questions with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mrs Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, our appreciation for the work of the initiators, including the multiple notes of amendment. The original proposal was broader than the proposal now before us. This proposal does not change the basis for alimony and the calculation. This proposal will ensure that the duration of the partner alimony is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u12	Perhaps you could speak a little slower, because it is hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u13	Mr President, I apologize. The authors have taken the critical notes to heart, not only in adapting the original proposal, but also in drafting it. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the fact that the initiators have sought the broadest possible support, especially in the case of a proposed legislative amendment which could directly affect many people. The idea behind the proposal before us supports the D66 Group. Wherever possible, former partners are responsible for their own livelihoods after a divorce. Our group considers that the current maximum duration of 12 years is too long. This may be too burdensome for an alimony worker. However, account should also be taken of specific groups of alimony beneficiaries who are often in a vulnerable position. That is what our group is looking at today. Mr. Chairman. Ideally, marriage or partnership is not a reason to abandon economic independence. Not only conscious choices, but also practical matters and social standards can play a role in this consideration. The D66 Group is therefore pleased that several steps are being taken to ensure, for example, a fairer distribution of care tasks within the family. Like, for example, the extension of partner leave. But also the continuing emphasis on shared income and the importance of economic independence is our group's support. At present, there is a wide-ranging study of the backgrounds of, for example, part-time work. The outcome of this research is expected in the summer of 2019. The cabinet response will follow afterwards. Can the Minister, on behalf of the Cabinet, undertake that the results of this investigation will also be sent to this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. In line with what I have already mentioned, for example, the Council of State has also noted that a society in which everyone can provide their own livelihoods is not yet in place. If this is the case, for example, by choices made jointly by the partners, an exception to the new rule may be justified as far as the D66 group is concerned. We have previously asked questions about some of these exceptions, in order to clarify precisely why certain exceptions have been chosen. An exception to the new maximum period is, for example, when there are children under 12 years of age. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats understands that an exception may be justified in the situation of minors. Ideally, however, this distinction is not necessary for young children either. The age of 12 did raise questions for our group. The treatment in the House of Representatives showed that it was motivated, among other things, by the fact that it prevents maintenance from taking longer than 12 years, which is now the maximum period. The initiators do not want a longer term by default. However, the age limit of 12 years seems arbitrary to us. For us, however, the initiators have answered convincingly that there are other reasons for choosing the age of 12. Following on from other situations where the legislator has also opted for the age limit of 12 years, this is obvious. Mr. Chairman. We have also asked questions about child support recipients with a long marriage, who were born on or before 1 January 1970. For this group, the maximum partner alimony is longer. By recording that date, this exception lapses after seven years. The argument put forward for this is that seven years after the entry into force of this law, individuals have had time to prepare themselves. Apart from the question of whether this group has been able to prepare itself, our group had the question of whether the need to make an exception for this group would no longer exist after that. We would like to hear how the initiators view this question. Our group believes that much will depend on whether the emancipation policy under way can be continued with effect, with a more equitable distribution of care tasks. We can imagine that this question will be explicitly taken into account in the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. As mentioned above, we agree with the principle that a shorter maximum maintenance period is more equitable. However, it is a question of maintaining the balance between the person liable for maintenance and the person entitled to maintenance. Where the shortened maximum period can be unfair, exceptions have been made. Where there are still unreasonable or unfair situations, the modified hardness clause can be invoked. An evaluation will take place after eight years, taking into account all aspects. It will also be possible to assess how the changes in practice have worked out. The D66 Group therefore believes that this proposal achieves a fair duration of partner alimony, with a view to vulnerable groups of alimony beneficiaries. We are therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Vink. You did it in five minutes, while you had ten minutes. Next time a little "piano piano," I'll be fine. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. I will also express this contribution on behalf of the SGP Group. You understand that I find this an honor. After a long journey of adjustments and the exchange of proposers, the initiative legislative proposal is now revision partner alimony at the last stop of the legislative process: the First Chamber. I therefore congratulate the proposers and their support teams on having managed to lead the bill here. Own-initiative legislation demands a lot and I always like to see MPs working on that instrument and with it their ideals. But unfortunately for the proposers, my contribution does not remain a waterfall of compliments. In the opinion of our groups, the legislative proposal before us today is not very well founded. It does not make it clear who the losers of the new proposed system are and matrimonial property law is not the place for labour emancipation policy. I am passing through these various objections and I also have a number of questions. Mr. Chairman. On a happy wedding day, the married couples promise each other loyalty, help and assistance. There's a lot of connection. That makes marriage a legal arrangement of its own; it is not an ordinary contract. That special character can also be absolutely tasted on many wedding days. But unfortunately, that doesn't always last. The numbers show that a third of the marriages are stranded. What happens if a marriage doesn't last? Our groups have read with appreciation that the proposers continue to talk about the fate of marriage. The common history exists, and cannot be erased. The legislator has tried to properly lay down rules on how this destiny should have an effect when marriage comes to an end. The current structure of the system of partner alimony is not without flaws. I think that everyone in this house has been confronted with the frayed edges and the overly rigid granting of alimony payments leading to distressing situations. As far as the proposers are concerned, I can absolutely appreciate that aim. But the method chosen is not yet convincing. This bill is about economic independence and earning capacity, but of course that is not the psychology of people who marry. There is solidarity and there are joint choices in the distribution of tasks, care for each other and for any children and care for the family. Those choices make married people together. That brings with it a responsibility that extends beyond marriage. If I mention, for example, that there are sectors that are well combined with care and care, but less with full-time jobs, think of care or the cleaning industry, it is hard that a choice that was very profitable for both in the early years of marriage, after the end of marriage already after five years comes to the account of the person who has taken much more care tasks. Can the authors, with this remark in mind, reflect once again on the basis of continued solidarity within marriage and how that basis relates to this? The applicants choose to reduce the period of maintenance from 12 years to 5 years. They argue that the 12-year period is under social pressure. Again and again, the twelve years of partner alimony is presented as a static award. Have the authors not been able to find out how often this is actually the case? Indeed, the percentage of allocations with the obligation to pay partner alimony has been falling for years. I have not seen any figures of what proportion of these allocations has actually been set at 12 years. Can the petitioners, or the minister, give an insight into this? What exactly is the number of divorces in relation to the total number of divorces? Do they have any idea what are the cases in which these twelve years are granted? How does that insight in this bill work? I am missing a clear analysis on this point. It gets a lot stuck on "feelings." The Council of State criticized, for a reason, the investigations alleged by the applicants. What is the extent of the problem perceived by the proposers? When asked about the justification of the new five-year period, it seems to me that the proposers suspect that this is long enough. It shouldn't be too long or too short. That sounds crystal clear, but it doesn't support the five years in question. In fact, all kinds of other deadlines are conceivable. Have the proposers also considered a completely different system, with, for example, more room for customization? Was it not better to create this within the current system, especially if there were an understanding of when the twelve-year period would be granted and to what extent it would be justified or not? Does the Minister have such investigations on the shelf or does he intend to do so? Our groups also pointed out in the written preparation the complex and sometimes difficult to justify situations that this new proposal presents. The proposers have so far done so with the observation that every law has difficult border cases, that there will be an evaluation in eight years' time and that there will be a relaxed hardness clause. But a hardness clause is the exception and not the rule. I would like to make it clear first of all how great the scope of possible new tight situations is. In the written preparation, I mentioned two examples of situations where this legislative proposal creates large differences between people and where I asked the proposers to work out what justifies this difference. The applicants did not comment on this case and I ask them to do so. Mr. Chairman. I'll give you two. First of all. A marriage is 50 years old for both spouses, one is full-time and the other is not dissolved after fifteen years. In addition, a marriage, both husbands are 49 years old, one of them is full-time and the other isn't full-time and ends after fourteen years. In the first situation, ten years is the maximum that can be granted as a partner maintenance period and the other situation is that five years. What justifies such a difference? Why those fifteen years as a critical limit when you know that divorces in the Netherlands are on average also around those fifteen years of marriage? So you know that there will be a lot of cases that are just or just not covered by this exception. Or do the authors have other figures? How do they justify this difference? Isn't this a choice for a large group of harrowing cases? And what does the Minister think of this choice? Second example. One marriage, the husbands are 40, a child of 4 years of age, the son ends after nine years. The other marriages are 40, three children of 12, 13 and 14 years of age............................................................................................................................................................................................... The first is covered by the exception that for children who have not yet reached the age of 12, the duration of the partner alimony is up to 12 years. The other is not covered by any exception. Is that fair? I didn't get the explanation, but I'm looking forward to it. I would therefore like to hear the authors and also the Minister specifically about this. What effects does he think these exceptions will have? In the debate in the Lower House and also in the written preparation much has been said about the emancipation of women. I believe that our groups are more liberal about this. Let couples decide for themselves how they work, care for children, care for others and all kinds of volunteer work........................................................................................... But also: how fair is it to enforce labour empathy in a small group whose marriage didn't work out? What justifies this intervention? And are women really helped with this, or is it, in fact, a scheme that brings them to a tight scholarship? Do the proposers have any figures that contradict this statement? And does it help towards the labour market or assistance? How will the Minister keep an eye on the collective burden of this new regime? In addition to possibly accelerated poverty, are we not in the process of shifting burdens previously borne by people themselves into a collective burden? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. There are certainly distressing or unjust situations in the current way of granting partner alimony. It is to be praised in the authors that they want to put an end to this, but the way in which our groups are not charmed by it. It is unclear how big the group is that actually received 12 years of child support and whether that would be unjust. It is not clear how many losers there are in this bill and who might find themselves in poverty faster. And emancipation policy should not be used in matrimonial property law. That does not alter the fact that there is a great deal to be done with the proposers, and of course with our adviser, the Minister. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for an own-initiative report (34231) by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Kuiken and Mr Grothuizen amending Book 1 of the Civil Code and any other laws relating to the revision of the system of partner alimony. I give the floor to the initiators. I have the order: Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mrs Kuik, Mr Grotehuizen. Can I keep that order? "No," I hear, but we're starting with Mr. Van Vineyards? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u18	Madam President. Thank you very much for allowing me to debate this beautiful Chamber with your Chamber. It's always an honor for a Dutch MP to be standing here. I also find it an honor to be able to defend our bill in your home on behalf of my esteemed colleagues Attje Kuik and Maarten Groothuizen, and on behalf of our predecessors: the Partner Maintenance Review Act. I will answer the questions chronologically as much as possible. The questions that have been put to the Minister, of course, I leave them to the Minister. But before I get to the questions, first a brief introduction. As several of your members have rightly pointed out, this bill has a long history. That fits the subject, because partner alimony is a complex theme. Changes can only be made with care and care. That takes some time for right and reason. Previous changes to the alimony law also took a lot of time. The right to alimony after divorce dates back to 1838. At that time, it was limitless. In 1971 the first attempt was made to limit the duration of the partner alimony. This results in a wide-ranging debate and a legislative proposal which will only enter into force in 1994: the Alimony limitation Act after divorce. The maximum duration of partner alimony has in principle been 12 years since 1994. Now, 25 years later, we hope to take another step. In this step, we maintain two principles: justice and graduality. First of all, justice. We reduce the maximum duration of partner alimony to five years, but we take into account vulnerable groups. They are entitled to a maintenance period of 10 years or 12 years. That is what we think is right. There is also a hardness clause. It therefore also takes into account possible distressing cases and vulnerable groups which are not included in any of the three exclusion groups. Moreover, this bill is in line with the increasing equality between men and women. In this context, it is not appropriate for the person receiving alimony, in many cases the woman, to remain in a dependent position for too long. Too long alimony periods hinder the economic independence of, mostly, women. We think that is undesirable and unfair. Finally, this bill has no retroactive effect. Current maintenance obligations remain. This too serves justice. Then the graduality. The new rules will not be introduced pats-boom. Current alimony paths are not affected. The new rules apply only to new divorces. These are, therefore, divorces established after the entry into force of this law. The maintenance period therefore starts after the entry into force of the law. This means that the effects of the law will gradually become known over a period of several years. Moreover, the law will be reviewed eight years after its entry into force. There is also a certain degree of graduality in the rules for alimony recipients, mostly women aged 50 and over. The law lays down the year of 1 January 1970. Each year, the group of persons covered by this exception will be reduced. So there too we see the graduality again. Madam President, I shall now turn to the questions put. Mr Schouwenaar noted that changes in personal and family law go with a lot of emotion and small steps. That's right. After a long and thorough discussion today, we hope to be able to take another small step. Furthermore, Mr Schouwenaar rightly mentions the recent case law of the Supreme Court. I come back to the answers to Mr Van Rij's questions, which were also very interesting. Mr Van Rij was right to point out that the legislative proposal has changed considerably over time. He has three questions, which I'd like to deal with extensively. Firstly, Mr Van Rij asks whether we should wait for the ibo research. Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Vink also cited this study. This is a study of part-time work in the Netherlands. We understand the questions put by Mr Van Rij, Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Vink. The studies are important for the wider question of emancipation in the Netherlands. Good lessons must be drawn from the conclusions of the study. I expect the Minister to do the same. But, with respect, I don't think this bill should wait for the results of the investigation. The aim of our bill is to shorten the maintenance period. We have given many arguments for this. I won't repeat it. I think that the research can give interesting and interesting results on the state of part-time work in the Netherlands, but I think it will not change our position on long maintenance periods. The same applies to a possible inquiry into the number of alimony beneficiaries currently receiving alimony benefits for a period of 12 years. Secondly, Mr Van Rij calls for attention to be paid to the economically weaker women of the late 40s and early 50s. Mrs Bikker and Mrs Vlietstra, in fact all the speakers, have drawn attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u19	I would just like to come back to the first point, about the ibo research, also in relation to what you said about justice. I quote from the Minister's letter: "In 2005, over 19% of divorced men under 40 paid partner alimony. In 2014, that was only 8%." The Minister then refers to the ibo reports that will come after the summer. Isn't that proof that socially the number of partner alimony is falling dramatically, especially under that category of 40 years? So to what extent are we actually in the process of setting a limit on the length of time, which may not be socially necessary at all? That is what I asked for in the first period. Now I'd like to ask you about that. In this sense, the latest figures from an ibo report could indeed be important to support the quantitative usefulness and necessity of this draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u20	I thank Mr Van Rij for his question. I also understand that he's asking for this. It is also in line with its first-term contribution. At the same time, I think that the picture that sketches the figures is just part of the story. First of all, I would like to mention the issue of justice. We receive many signals from people who still see it as an unjust regime from the legal profession, but also from our mailboxes. Then it is not only digitised whether they are involved or not, but there is also a fundamental reason for them. That is why I have also mentioned the issue of justice. The current duration of maintenance also leads to conflicts in divorces. We believe that shorter maintenance periods will lead to fewer conflicts. I think we agree on this: the less, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u21	A brief supplementary question. The number of divorces is increasing in the Netherlands, from 33% to 40%, with a slight fall to 38%. The number of cases in which partner alimony is granted in the category below 40 years is less than 10%. Do you really think that this bill will prevent any further discussion in those cases where there will always be discussion? For even in five years there is a possibility of discussion, even if it is only 3% of the cases. If anyone does not agree that it is only five years, the hardness clause will be invoked. So, in fact, I find the problem much less serious than you present. And I do not think that the draft law will solve those situations where there is already a conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u22	As proposers, we are primarily concerned with the choice of principle for a shorter period of time, because we think that it is better suited to people's feelings of justice, to the sense of justice of people, and that it enables them to move on with their lives. It gives them time, on the one hand, to prepare for economic independence again, with all the exceptions we have appointed, which I shall not go into any further. On the other hand, the maximum period is not so long that it leads to feelings of injustice, which is still the case. So this point is in addition to that of the figures, but this point was the main reason for us as proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u23	Finally, Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u24	I also refer to what Mrs Bikker mentioned in her first term: the feeling. Moreover, I fully agree that there is, to some extent, a basis for that feeling. But at the end of the day, you do not answer the question of how many cases there are now where there is actually that maximum period of 12 years. But I'm sure you'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u25	Let me make a brief comment. The problem is also a little bit that the Council does not publish all cases before the Court of Justice and that it does not keep track of the cases in which specific judgments are given in divorce cases. We have really done our best to deliver the figures to the maximum, including in the reply. We haven't been able to find out more than this at the moment. But it is, as I have indicated, first and foremost a fundamental choice for us. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. Secondly, Mr Van Rij calls for attention to be paid to the economically weaker women of the late 40s and early 50s. The position of the weak also grabs us. We have done everything in our legislative proposal to prevent poignant cases. Mr Van Rij cites the example of a 14-year marriage stranded when the woman is 49. How real is it that this woman finds a job after five years? Yeah, that can be tricky. But it's not impossible, I say. It is, of course, the intention that, as soon as that child support is paid, the person concerned should do everything in his power to get back on his own feet, so that alimony after five years is no longer necessary. If, due to circumstances, it is not reasonable and fair to stop alimony after five years, the hardness clause may offer some relief in distressing cases. Thirdly, Mr Van Rij asks about the case law of the Supreme Court. Mr Van Rij is right to say that the Supreme Court has considered that the withdrawal or cancellation of lot connection cannot be grounds for termination of the maintenance obligation. Of course, there are other grounds for a reduction, as Mr Van Rij rightly says. The Supreme Court does not make it a priori impossible to shorten the twelve-year term. However, the Hoge Raad makes this more difficult, certainly more difficult than earlier statements made by, among others, the court of The Hague and the court of Den Bosch. In fact, the Supreme Court has substantially tightened the requirements for reducing maintenance. That is why we have discussed this recent case law extensively in our response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u26	Is it another point, Mr. Van Rij?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u27	Yeah, sure. This is about the third point, about the rulings of the Supreme Court. Thank you for the answer and, by the way, for the answer contained in the reply. I'm more concerned with weighing. If I understand you correctly, you say that those statements by the Supreme Court actually mean an undesirable direction for us as initiators, namely that, where appropriate, decreasing fate is not a basis for limiting the duration of twelve years. At the same time, I think we agree on the fact that there may be other grounds for limiting that time limit, for example earning capacity with the creditor. My question is this. Doesn't there also play something very fundamentally state-law? If the highest judge in our country, who is now appropriate to make decisions in the highest instance that concern the case, comes to a very balanced judgment, should we not respect that as a legislator, or at least think about it, rather than immediately shoot into the mode of "we disagree and therefore change the law"? So that is actually a more fundamental question that I would like to put on the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u28	As I said at the beginning, I do not think that we have come up with this legislation at all. It has been preceded by a long and thorough discussion. I have also indicated that this also reflects the importance of the subject. At the same time, it would also have been a strange figure if we had not mentioned the case law of the Supreme Court, because you still have to read back in it, I think, that at least the Supreme Court did not consider itself competent to interfere with that maximum period of 12 years. That wasn't up to the Supreme Court. That is really up to the legislator. That's why we're here. With regard to the question of the link of fate, which Mr Van Rij also mentioned, I think it is important that this applies to the right to alimony as such. Of course, this law doesn't change that. We're gonna change the duration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u29	That's obvious. You weigh those statements of the Supreme Court differently than I do, I think. That is, of course, your right to do so. Then may I ask one last question? If the Supreme Court had not made these statements, but had come to a different conclusion and said that decreasing fate was a basis for shortening the duration, would you have withdrawn your bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u30	This legislation is based on the deep motivation and conviction that we have as proposers, apart from the Supreme Court, that the length of time currently laid down in the law is not fair enough and can be shortened. That is the reason for this legislation. That is why we are making this proposal. We would have thought it strange not to mention this case law of the Supreme Court, and in our view it is in line with the proposal we are making, because it underlines once again the importance of taking action here as legislators, but that does not alter our motivation that we have felt from the outset for this proposal. I'll continue with my answer. I come to Mrs Vlietstra's question. Ms Vlietstra noted that the bill had been amended in response to objections raised, inter alia, by the Council of State. That's true. We have taken the criticism and we welcome the many comments made on the earlier version of the bill, because we believe it has improved the legislative proposal. The current proposal, which is now before you, does not change the basis. That is and remains the fate of partners. When people marry each other, they make an important commitment. It is so important that both partners also bear a responsibility to each other when the marriage is over. Until 25 years ago, this responsibility was so great that a lifelong maintenance obligation could be imposed. As mentioned earlier, this was changed in 1994 to a maximum maintenance period of 12 years. We want to change it to five years, except for the exception, but the basis of this maintenance obligation, namely the link between the two ex-partners, remains the same. We're okay with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u31	I welcome this answer. The response actually showed that you had rather pragmatically decided to choose fate as the basis of the legislative proposal, because in your reply you only discussed the feasibility. So it seemed a bit like that wasn't part of your conviction. I now understand that that is the case, that these are really two pillars that are under the bill. It's good to hear that. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u32	I would like to thank Mrs Vlietstra for her words. I will continue with my speech. Mrs Vlietstra asks for a fair division of labour and care between men and women. That is a subject that is also of concern to us. We are pleased that Mrs Vlietstra sees that this law could work as an incentive on the road to fair distribution. Of course, more is needed than just changing the law. I would like to refer to what the Minister has said in his written reply and what he will undoubtedly say more about the desired fair distribution of work and care. Mrs Vlietstra rightly mentions that the bill takes account of older women. We're trying to avoid a social security fall. Alimony beneficiaries who are married for at least 15 years and reach their AOW age within 10 years shall be entitled to alimony up to that age. So that's a maximum of ten years. Persons born on or before 1 January 1970 who have been married for at least 15 years are entitled to a maximum of 10 years of partner alimony. After seven years, this group falls under the exception mentioned above and this measure lapses. Of course, these measures do not work together. If you're 50 years old and you've been married for more than 15 years, you're entitled to ten years of child support. After ten years, you're 60 years old, but then you can no longer claim alimony, because you're ten years under your AOW age. The moment of measurement is the moment of filing the divorce request, not the moment of termination of the alimony. The last group mentioned by Mrs Vlietstra concerns child support recipients with care for young children. It considers the period of 12 years to be very long, if not too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u33	Do I understand correctly that in the example I mentioned, if someone has turned 60 after ten years, that of that person, in practice, will that often be a woman who is expected to provide for her own livelihood?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u34	I would like to thank Mrs Vlietstra for her question. It is true that, at some point, the duration will naturally end. It is true that there is always an appeal to the hardness clause for distressing cases. That is an important answer to the question, I think. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, it is precisely the longer period that is given to people to give them longer time to prepare for greater economic independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u35	It is not for nothing that the proposers have taken the 50-plussers into one of the exception groups. Do the proposers agree with me that it is almost impossible to find a place in the labour market beyond that age, especially if you are 60 years old? It strikes me that you do have a great deal to do with the individual, the individual who has to prepare for the situation of returning to the labour market. I miss the fact that you have thought about what others, particularly the government, but also employers, should do in order to contribute to this. In itself, I can follow your principle of principle, but you are not there with that. There's gonna have to be more. That is not only the individual responsibility of the creditor. There is also a responsibility for the government, for example. Then I find it a little easy when you refer to the Minister. I'm sure he'll go into it himself, but I'm sure you've thought about it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u36	I understand your question. I also understand the concern. We share the concern about vulnerable groups. That is why we have also formulated the exceptional situations. That is why we have included a hardness clause for distressing cases. I hope that Mrs Vlietstra agrees with me that this should be a point of attention, especially with regard to the evaluation of this law. I also think that this should be a point of attention for the cabinet. I am not trying to put this off in any way, but I do think it is also a question of accompanying policy, in the sense of: how do we deal with that very specific group we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mrs. Vlietstra, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u38	I'm gonna try one more time. If you come up with such a bill, my expectation is that Mr Van Wijngaarden himself has also thought about what he calls such a beautiful "accompanying policy." I'd like to hear what ideas he's developed about that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u39	The proposers share the concern for these vulnerable groups. That is why it is good that they are given longer time to look at: how am I going to do it later? However, there have been border cases at every time. That is also the case in the current situation. However, I think that we should consider how we can encourage employers to return them to the labour market, for example by combating age discrimination. I think that's an underrated problem. These are matters which the cabinet will, I hope, also address in the context of the accompanying policy, in the sense that it will be made as attractive as possible for older people to return to work. But employers must also be called upon to take responsibility for giving this opportunity to older people. That is ultimately what we need to do, namely that people can move on with their lives, no matter how difficult that may be after such a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u40	I can tell the authors, including in their legislative proposals, that they have been involved with older women who have been out of work for a long time and who should get back to work after ten years of partner alimony. Mr Van Wijngaarden refers to government initiatives, but the exception that the initiators make for those ten years is now seven years. And when's the evaluation? After eight years. How good is the picture that this exception is no longer necessary? What is the seven-year derogation based on if the evaluation lasts for eight years? I think that is a very difficult area in terms of deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u41	I understand very well that there can always be discussion as to why a certain period of time has been chosen. That was also discussed in the written procedure. The proposers believe that this is a reasonable time to evaluate and that a good picture of the first effects in practice can then emerge. Where necessary, lessons can then be learned. Apart from the deadline for the evaluation, I would point out that the quality of the evaluation is at least as important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u42	The initiators opt for an exception for a vulnerable group of women. The deadline is set at seven years, but it is only after eight years that it becomes clear what the evaluation of the law will mean and therefore what the position of these women is. However, the exception is already over. There can now be a story for these women about why it is happening in this way and one hopes and expects that after that time labour market policy will have changed so that the thresholds have been removed, but that is not certain. Why didn't we wait until at least those eight years and get the evaluation out? Then the initiators could have added a kind of horizon clause in order to ensure the success of what the proposers are planning. Now this group can be in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u43	That is not what we, as proposers, intended to do. We have tried to meet them to the maximum. There may be discussion over any period of time, but our aim was to take maximum care and thought-out account of these vulnerable groups. We tried. After the entry into force of the law, time goes on. Then people will gradually start to apply to a different alimony law if this law is passed. The last group mentioned by Mrs Vlietstra concerns child support recipients with the care of young children. It considers the period of 12 years to be very long, if not too long. We understand that. But I'd like to make a nuance. The period is only 12 years if the youngest child is born at the time of filing the divorce application. That will not often be the case. If the children are already a few years old, the maintenance period is shorter. If the youngest child is 5 years old, the mother is entitled to seven years of child support. By the way, it is not known how large the group of child support recipients is with young children. As far as we're aware, those records aren't being kept. We didn't make this a temporary exception. After all, the link of fate that is the basis of the bill weighs more heavily when young children are involved. That is why we believe it is justified that the child supporter who cares for young children is entitled to alimony for a longer period of time from usually the ex-partner. Mrs Bikker, too, has said some interesting words about the link between fate. I'll get to that. Mrs Vink rightly points out that we have tried to find the broadest possible support. After all, this is a bill that can affect many people directly, as she says so beautifully. She asked for the exception for women aged 50 and over. This exception shall expire after seven years. After that, a 51-year-old woman who divorces after 15 years of marriage will be entitled to five instead of ten years of child support. At 56, she will have to provide her own sustenance. We think that's reasonable. The employment rate and capacity position of women are expected to increase and increase even more by then. In addition, we consider that a longer maintenance period is unfair to the alimony-payer. Mrs Vink also asked whether this exception was explicitly taken into account in the evaluation. I'm looking at the minister with a slanted eye. I hope this will be the case. Mrs Bikker rightly points out that continued solidarity remains the basis of maintenance legislation. She speaks fine words about the ties of fate that follow from marriage and about the common history that cannot be erased. I agree with her. Marriage isn't an ordinary contract, so we shouldn't treat it like that. Mrs Bikker stated that she did not have any figures on which part of the allocation of partner alimony was set at 12 years. A little correction. Twelve years is not often explicitly stated. Usually the judge doesn't mention a term at all and twelve years is the starting position. Unfortunately, we cannot give an exact percentage of how often alimony is paid for 12 years and how often a shorter term is paid. What we do know is that a period of 12 years is laid down in the law, but we think that is too long. That is why we have submitted this bill to the Chamber. Mrs Bikker asks whether we have also thought about a different system, such as more room for customization. Yes, of course: firstly, the three often mentioned exceptions, secondly, the hardness clause, but in addition, the judge makes his own assessment in each case, taking into account all the circumstances of the case. Tailor-made work remains possible. That's a good thing, because every divorce is unique. Mrs Bikker mentions two specific examples. In the reply we indicated that we prefer not to go into specific case positions. We want to give the judge the freedom and opportunity to deal with every case on his merits. But I would like to respond to Mrs Bikker, so I will try to answer her question. One of her examples is about two marriages with children. In one situation the spouses are 40 years old and there is one child of 4 years old, in the other the spouses are 40 years old, but there are three children, 12, 13 and 14 years old. After nine years, both marriages end. What justifies the fact that one situation is covered by an exception and the other is not? The answer is that we have made an exception for marriages with young children. Young children need extra care. There can be harrowing cases there more quickly. With our exception, we have tried to deal with the harrowing cases as much as possible. The situation of a child aged 4 years or children aged 12, 13 or 14 years is so different that we consider it justified that one situation falls into the exception position and the other does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u44	Three teenagers may as well bring with them a very big message of care and perhaps bigger or more complicated than one child of 4. Why are we looking at the age of children and not at the number or circumstances? I would have liked it if you had looked a little more at that customization instead of the very rigid system you've been putting in place for the last 12 years. Of that, you said it was too rigid and too heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u45	I understand Mrs Bikker's point. At the same time, we have looked at how the legislator generally deals with this age limit. As stated in the reply, 12 years is an age limit which is often applied. From 12 years onwards, a little more autonomy is created in people. It's easier to leave kids alone. That's why we've chosen for 12 years. I have no experience of it myself, but I immediately assume that care in the educational sense for adolescents is very different from that for very young children. We were looking for a link to a border which is already being applied and to see if it is possible to leave these children alone once in a while and thus rebuild economic independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u46	It could very well be that someone with a child of 4 and good childcare can build up that economic autonomy again. You're giving him the right to eight years until the kid is 12 and those teenagers aren't. I understand that you're trying to fit in with logical issues, including justice, but have you asked a bit of researchers, psychologists and pedagogues what is wise about teenagers? In addition, I have not yet read about how you are going to shape this in the evaluation. Especially when it comes to having a heart for vulnerable women, is this one of the points where we also need to have a heart for those children? I actually miss that in the answer so far. It also means a lot to children. It may be that three teenagers are confronted with the fact that their mother or father, who is already vulnerable, has to work suddenly, while in a child of 4 where the situation is stable, it is the other way around. I still miss the justification for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u47	Thank you to Mrs Bikker for her point. I can hear what she's saying. I understand her concern. She calls the evaluation herself. This is certainly a point that should be taken into account in the evaluation. In the end, we are giving everyone economic autonomy, including that mother with young children who go to day care. This economic independence enables people to carry on with their lives, and that is what is at the heart of the matter. In the end, it is also in the interests of people themselves that this dependence should be reduced and self-reliance increased. We are giving this to all fathers and mothers with young children, and I would like to point out that child support is simply maintained. The other example is about two more marriages. In one marriage both spouses are 50 years old and the marriage is dissolved after fifteen years. In the other marriage both spouses are 49 years old and the marriage ends after fourteen years. What justifies one example being included in the exception, namely 50-plus, and not the other? That is a good point from Mrs Bikker. It's possible you're just outside the rules. We have opted for an extra 50-plus scheme, not 49-plus. If we had chosen 49-plus, the border case would have been 48-plus. I don't mean that in any way. I'm just trying to point out that with such an age limit, you're always dealing with the intrinsic problem of border cases. That is what I am trying to say in reply to Mrs Bikker's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u48	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u49	It's a different case and a different group. I would like to ask the authors very carefully. You've also chosen the limit of 15 years of marriage. My second example was more like that, precisely because fifteen years of marriage is now about the average that marriages last those beaches. You immediately have a very large group that is covered by the exception and a very large group that is not covered by it. Then why did you choose for those 15 years, exactly the average term during which marriages end? Then you choose a limit that you are sure will be a lot of pressing cases. Well, then you kind of provoke people to let the marriage last for a while. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u50	Of course, we can't look into the future. We don't know what the average duration of marriage will be in the future. If the President allows me, I do not want to go into too much speculation over those 15 years and whether or not that will result in many border cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u51	All the way to the end, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u52	I'm not speculating. I just took the CBS numbers. 14.9 to 15 years out of my head is the average. You opt for the 15-year derogation. Then you know that you choose many cases that are just not covered. I'd like to know why you choose to do that. I'm missing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u53	I think that there have already been border cases in the present style. The CBS always looks back. I was just trying to look a little bit more forward. We don't know where the border traps will be in the future. I think that's more of an evaluation point. Unfortunately, border cases will always be there. I would like to say a few words about the exceptional cases. We could have chosen to go from 12 to 5 years without exceptions. Then the situation would have been the same for everyone. There had been no differences for 50-plus, 49-plus or 48-plus. You'd get five years. Period. But would that have been more just? Not in our eyes. It would cause many poignant cases. By regulating the three exceptions in the law, we now take account of these distressing cases. There will be exceptions, but they will always be. Moreover, it is always possible to invoke the hardness clause in poignant cases, as an end to maintenance really cannot be required in the words of the law, given all the circumstances of the case, according to reasonableness and fairness. Mr President, I hope I have answered all the questions with this. I would like to thank you and through you all the spokesmen in this debate and in the last but certainly not the least place all the supporters and their predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you. Do I understand from this that your co-initiators are not going to speak? Not Mrs. Kikik and not Mr. Groothuizen? But I am going to give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs. He retreated for a small sanitary stop for a short time. We are waiting for the Minister of Justice. Mrs Bikker has another question for Mr Van Wijngaarden. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u55	I thought perhaps one of the other co-sponsors would speak. I've asked a question I haven't heard answered yet. There are sectors that are less well combined with full-time jobs. I'm thinking about the cleaning business. I'm thinking about the care. At the beginning of their marriage, people sometimes make choices that are very profitable at the time, but which later put a huge brake on economic independence, simply because they cannot get a full-time job. Now it's booming and it's getting a little easier. But especially in low economics, it's complicated. Can Mr Van Wijngaarden reflect on this, of course on behalf of the initiators and through you, President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u56	Thanks for the question. In the end, we have tried to take account of vulnerable groups and poignant cases. We have also tried to find appropriate reasonable time limits, with a starting point of no less than five years, precisely in order to give people all these years. They can use them to see how, despite the choices they have made in the past in marriage, they can try to move forward on their own and adapt things in their lives accordingly. If I take the standard time frame as a starting point, five years is the period within which people can take up training and work on that kind of thing. That is what we have been thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u57	Thank you again, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the word and for my part also a compliment to the initiators for all the work that has been put into this. Thanks also to the predecessors and to the support in the gallery. It's always a hell of a job to make such an initiative bill. It has also taken a long time, but we are finally here and that is special. The main aim of the proposal is to reduce the duration of partner alimony, starting from not a maximum of 12 years but a maximum of five years. The cabinet considers that a long maintenance period can hinder the economic independence of alimony recipients, mostly women. We therefore believe that it is right as partners who have stayed home in marriage to look after the children, in a divorce, to strive to become economically independent within a reasonable period of time. Now it's not easy for a certain group of women to do that. The legislative proposal also takes this into account, in a balanced way in our view, through a number of derogations. This leads to the cabinet having no objection to this proposal, considering everything. Now a number of questions have been asked, among others by Mr Van Rij and Mrs Bikker, about the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal. I believe that, first of all, the initiators should support this. In my view, they have done so in a good and thorough way. There are two points I would like to make briefly, because the invitation has also been made to do so. On the one hand, this is the basis in quantitative terms. Is there sufficient evidence on which to base it? Can you back it up enough? Mrs Bikker asked about the number of cases where the 12-year maintenance period applies. Now, where there are figures, they are shared with you. Figures aren't all there. But the idea behind such a bill is not only that you are trying to justify whether it works, but also that at some point you are saying standards: we think that is a politically acceptable and acceptable line. In this respect, the cabinet can at least follow the movement in which you say: looking at the current state of society and the acceptable standards, we think it is reasonable that the deadline should be shortened. The other line along which your usefulness and necessity of the bill could fly is the legal line. What about case law, the legal basis of the proposal and consistency, for example with previous rulings of the Supreme Court? The initiator just took an advance on that. For my part, I say that the statements made last year by the Supreme Court are in fact a confirmation of the current 12-year standard. Where earlier court rulings may have left a little more room for manoeuvre, the Supreme Court somewhat restricted them. Then how do you deal with those kind of statements? These are statements by the Supreme Court on the application of the current legal framework. In the end, it is up to the legislator, and it sits partly here and on the other side of the House, to say at some point: we believe that the legal standard to which the judge is reviewing should be adjusted. It is precisely in this clarification that the added value lies. So no more 12 years, unless in an individual case shorter, but as a rule five years, and exceptionally longer. That's about the usefulness and necessity of the bill. Several Members have also discussed in detail the issue that this is very important, namely everything that has to do with the economic independence of people and often women. Mrs Vlietstra asked whether we share her view that these are not only institutional factors such as barriers to the labour market, but also more cultural elements such as views, role patterns and stereotypes. I think this is certainly the case. In the ibo to part-time work currently taking place, both the institutional components and the cultural component are examined. I refer to the role of childcare, tax arrangements and leave arrangements, but on the other hand also the cultural aspects such as role patterns and worn-in stereotypes. Both elements are taken into account in the cabinet's emancipation policy. Now there are things you don't change one-two-three. The cabinet is doing a lot in the area of tax measures and making and maintaining, also in financial terms, child care, for example. With that cultural component, we're talking about something that also takes time. Fortunately, when you take that time, we see that there are also changes. Between 2005 and 2017, for example, women went back to work for an hour. As far as we are concerned, it may be even more, but the movement is in the right direction. Women are also more often economically independent. In 2017, it was 60%, two years earlier 58%. So in that area too, the movement is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u59	Perhaps because I am also speaking for the SGP, I would like to draw attention to the other perspective: that of man. How does the Minister feel about that? Shouldn't that take away a little bit if you're looking for that balance? Or does he think everyone should work as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u60	In any case, I would like everyone to be economically independent, so that you don't get into trouble or rely on each other for a long time if you have bad luck in life or if love ceases to exist. It can help if both partners in a relationship at least ensure that they remain attractive in the labour market or, if there is reason to do so and a relationship ceases to exist, try to deal with it as soon as possible. The cabinet is a strong supporter of a fair distribution of care tasks as a counterpart to economic independence and involvement. The question is, how do you fill that out? The Netherlands is a country that is very different internationally in the number of hours worked per week. This applies both to women and men. We're world champions part-time. It's not just mothers who stay home, but also fathers who have gone to work less. There are good sides to that. However, there is also a worrying side to it: where less work really gets much less and women are lagging behind in the labour market. That's unrelated to the economic capital you're losing with it. Mrs Vlietstra asked about the shortage of care and education. I always think it's a shame. For example, look at education, which I know well. We have no shortage of teachers in the Netherlands, but we have a shortage of full-time teachers. If we were able to tap into that labour market potential, it would be good for women's economic independence, good for education and therefore good for the whole of the Netherlands, because this also increases labour productivity in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u61	We can debate this for a long time and a long time, but I will confine myself to the legislative proposal. I also know that the President is going to intervene differently. It has been announced in the framework of the ibo on part-time work to come. Could the Minister undertake to consider the position of the man and the balanced distribution of care responsibilities precisely in that study? What makes me a little tired is that all we're talking about is that women need to work more. I think it is a balance and it is not just about that one aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u62	I totally agree that it should be a balance. This is, as far as I know, part of that ibo study. It looks at both institutional factors and cultural factors that explain why the proportion of part-time work in the Netherlands is so terribly high. In that respect, we can also learn something from the research. I do not want to condemn part-time work at all, because when it comes to the distribution of care tasks, it may be good if two partners work four days a week and thus distribute the tasks well. However, we can see that it is very uneven in parts, especially for women who are working part-time or who are no longer working at all, who have become very distant from the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u63	I therefore ask the Minister to make an undertaking that, when that study comes, the cabinet will respond precisely to the aspect of man and not just to the aspect of women.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u64	Absolutely. Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u65	I'm very touched by what the Minister says. Economic independence is the key concept. Actually, it's weird that you won't find out until you're divorced and have to try to catch up in a couple of years. It should be obvious to boys and girls from a young age that in the long run you'll stop wearing your own pants. What surprises me so much is this. Following on from the inquiry into how so much part-time work is being carried out in the Netherlands, my group asked if the Minister would come up with additional measures. The written answer said that there is no reason for this, because we are already doing so much. I doubt the latter. I hear the Minister mention all kinds of things that I would like to mention under the category of material measures, but precisely in terms of role patterns and culture, my expectation is that, as a result of this research, the cabinet will have a role to play in taking steps. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u66	I can go a long way towards meeting Mrs Vlietstra, because I fear there is a misunderstanding. The cabinet does not investigate and then do nothing with it. We're doing the research to learn something from it. If there is reason in the investigation to take additional measures, to take additional steps or to fine tune the things we are doing now, then we will certainly do so. I will ensure that these elements are also addressed in the policy response and that this is directed towards your Chamber. I think you should look again and again at what you can do to make it as attractive as possible for everyone to be economically independent and remain independent or, if not, to become independent as soon as possible. With that research and also with the research of the SCP to which Mr Schouw referred, we certainly benefit. The latter research is not a research commissioned by us, but that also shows something about role patterns and considerations that partners make in a relationship in the distribution of work and care tasks. Then Mrs Vlietstra challenged me to come up with additional measures. In the letter, I have already given a rather comprehensive list of the things the cabinet does, such as fiscal measures, childcare measures and breaking down role patterns in order to increase economic independence. In the run-up to the ibo we also do a lot of awareness. For example, we work together with ZonMW to see which methods are effective for women's work leadership. Customer managers of social services can then use this to guide women towards paid work. In addition, the Ministry of OCW finances the Alliance Together it works!, in which various organisations work together to improve the labour market position of financially vulnerable women. Mr. Chairman. This is about women's economic independence in general terms. Mrs Vlietstra also asked about the new scheme, whereby there is an exception for child support beneficiaries with children under 12 years of age. There too, of course, I think that we are very quickly in agreement on the fact that the sooner those partners, often women, are self-sufficient, the better it is. It is good that there is a maintenance scheme as a safety net, but it is even better to be on your own. The policy that this cabinet has put in place, but also the previous one which is due to be held in honour of the Council of Ministers, includes fiscal measures to make it more attractive for single mothers to work. That policy is paying off. This week we also saw this as a conclusion from recent research: overcoming the poverty trap, making it attractive to get started, means that these women are less dependent on alimony or a benefit. That's only very good. A few specific points remain. Mrs. Vlietstra asked about the possibilities for partner alimony of cohabitants. We see a trend in this. The government's reluctance to apply a maintenance system to this is due to the fact that people living together deliberately chose not to marry or to enter into a registered partnership. A social contract is a contractual agreement in which partners can make their own agreements. We do not want to cross that party autonomy, because then you enter into contract freedom. However, I can assure you that, following the government agreement, the Cabinet is currently conducting an investigation into a somewhat wider acceptance of the current system of alimony, and I am happy to include the position of cohabitants. It's good to have a look at what's being looked at, including a broad social dimension. Whether this leads to concrete proposals can be seen when the research is under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u67	It was a little fast. Can the Minister please repeat what research this is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u68	There is an investigation that results from the coalition agreement. Then it's a multidisciplinary investigation, with three main questions. What elements of the alimony scheme affect the acceptance of the maintenance obligation and does the degree of acceptance affect the number of procedures? Is the alimony system still compatible with the organisation of the current society? Well, then you could think about the agreements that partners make about how they want to be together: get real or have a social contract. Thirdly, is there a need for coordination between the systems of partner alimony? This research is ongoing and is expected to be completed in spring 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u69	So you're admitting that within that investigation, you will also take the position of cohabitants in relation to partner alimony?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u70	Yeah, exactly. With the disclaimer that this is the more fundamental point from which our hesitation comes, we have so far always held the view that we do not want to enter into contract freedom and party autonomy. After all, this is a contract and not a form of society. Mrs Bikker asked what we think of some of the limits indicated. It referred to the marriage period of fifteen years in the derogation and to the age of 12 in the case of children. Borders are, of course, always arbitrary, something we have just seen in the discussion. At the same time, I think that is a discussion that you can have for any border determination. If there had been a proposal here of 10 or 20 years, you could probably have asked the same questions. I am no different in my ministry than that at some point you draw some sort of line and say: we consider that politically acceptable and wise. In the end, it is up to you to decide whether we have taken a sensible turn in that direction. Let me take criminal law for a moment: there too, of course, you lay down all kinds of limits and levels of punishment, which you can also ask yourself why it did not turn out to be ten, twelve or fifteen years. It is a question of what we all think is acceptable, and this also applies to these kinds of boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u71	"Every border knows border cases": it can be mounted on a tile. But here it is chosen for the fifteen-year limit, of which the CBS clearly indicates that the figures show that marriages end between fourteen and fifteen years. So a border is chosen which is right at a time when people do or do not comply with it. Well, then it's obvious that you're gonna get rid of that, just depending on your vision whether women should be economically independent rather than you're gonna put it down a little bit, or just a little bit higher? But then you're gonna sit right where most of the marriages stick. How does the Minister feel about that? I understand the law cannot be amended here. But I can imagine that this is typically one of those points where the Minister says he wants to keep his finger on the wrist and look at it in the interim. On that point, I expect a little care from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u72	Always watch out for statistics. It's about averages and medians and about whether you're just getting past it or just getting past it. I don't know if you can say: I'm going to be in exactly the focal point of the CBS. I can imagine you're gonna be looking at how that's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u73	Yeah, and it's eight years from now. That's a long way away. Then we've already had a lot of people when just over a third of the marriages are stranded, and they've run into them right here. The Minister doesn't know if my statement is correct. How not to lie with statistics; I know him too. But it is a fact that the average is about 15 years. So that is the border case with which you can hit a lot of people with this law: does it just apply or just doesn't apply? We're not gonna wait eight years for that, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u74	I'm gonna take a dip in the stats. The fact that you're talking about averages doesn't mean everyone's around 15 years old. It means that on average it is about 15 years, but this distribution can mean that there are a lot shorter and much longer. That makes it complicated to say: that is exactly an unwise point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u75	Following this dialogue between the Minister and Mrs Bikker, I also see in the CBS figures not only those 15 years, which is indeed an average, a median. But this also shows that the age at which divorces occur increases, both in men and women. In women, the average age is 44. The second point, which I find quite remarkable, is that it is not surprisingly clear that women between 55 and 60 know by far the lowest employment rate. And that's exactly the vulnerable group we were talking about. When you just referred to that investigation, I thought, "Why don't we wait for that investigation, which will come out in January?" As far as I am concerned, we do not have to wait for the eight years of this evaluation, because that is a very relevant study, which not only examines whether or not alimony should be applied to social contracts. The data from this study will allow further thought to be given to whether this law should be applied in this way. So I am not so opposed, but I think that the law has so far been so misfounded, even when it comes to usefulness and necessity. I expected more from this debate. So shouldn't we wait and see?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u76	For two reasons, I wouldn't want to do that. The first reason is that I believe that the initiators, with their letters of amendment across the board, have made a number of changes to the legislative proposal which have excluded the older target group, so I believe that this will help to overcome the most vulnerable cases. The other is that I suspect that the ongoing ibo research on part-time work is not going to answer the questions you are asking. That research looks much more at what the reasons are that in the Netherlands the factor of part-time work is so high. What are the incentives that you could build in to encourage partners of both sexes as much as possible to make sensible choices to remain economically available and independent? In other words, it is not a study that looks very specifically at the alimony element either. In my view, therefore, there is no reason to hold this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u77	Last question on the subject. We are talking about economic independence. As far as I am concerned, we do not disagree on this: that is the desired situation to achieve economic independence quickly in a situation of alimony. What we think differently about is about those vulnerable situations. Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Bikker have pointed this out and I will do it once again: for women and theoretically also for men, when they are older, it is simply harder to get a job, especially if they are long out of work. And then if it's a job, we all know, even without ibo research, that in most cases it's azzp-like thing, with 1.2 millionzzp'ers. That is what we are concerned about. This bill provides a number of solutions to this problem, but, frankly, the authors and the Minister have not yet convinced me that in these distressing cases, mentioned by Mrs Bikker, this law is conclusive. Then that individual is on his own and then he or she may invoke the hardness clause. Well, I can think of situations where that's a little enviable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u78	I am less gloomy than Mr Van Rij. First of all, there are three exceptions in this law, one of which is about women caring for children and two about women at a later age and in a long marriage, which you can assume, if you have chosen not to work for a long time, it is difficult to get back to work. But if you look at the target group that is included, starting with the age limit of 50 years, then I think it is a lot to say: women from behind in 40 are poignant cases, which can only do one thing, namely appeal to the hardness clause in the maintenance obligation. We can also, together with all of us, simply ensure that these women are given a chance on the labour market again, and that we work together with local authorities on training and training. After all, these women have many years to go, in a normal workable life, in which they can build something new. If that is really not possible because of exceptional annoying things, there are some of those things mentioned in the letter received by the Chamber, incapacity for work and you name it, then a judge will of course take a serious look at it. But we are also talking about women who are still in the thriving of their lives. If people are unlucky enough to end their relationship, we need to see if we can stand next to those people and help them get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u79	May I ask if you're almost...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u80	Yeah, I'm almost done. Communication is, of course, an important issue that will be addressed if the law is adopted. Mrs Vlietstra asked what the cabinet would do on this point. That will be a task that we will take on. The communication about this kind of thing goes through the government's website. There is no formal talk there, but there are a lot of practical things that people can think about in the case of dismissal, divorce and so on. The website will need to be updated as a result of the new law. It contains specific information about alimony; we will modify it. We do not only do that; we have quite good experiences with the collaboration with professionals. mediators, lawyers, notaries and such..........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u81	I don't think a lot of people look at the government site every day. I understand that it is being set up in a good way, but I think that this is too little and that we will have to do a lot, especially with regard to the groups with limited capacity, to make preventive statements of the consequences, so that the people are aware of them. I find only information on the government website a little thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u82	Let me take the offer. I'd like to talk to professionals to see what the right entrances are to reach these target groups as well. This does not just have to be digital information; this can also be done by means of brochures or other material that can be found at, for example, the place where one reports to a marriage, so that one also knows what the consequences will be if that marriage comes to an end. For example, that information may be available at the civil status of the municipality. There are several ways to do that, so I'd like to take that with me. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether his impression was correct that recipients of alimony were more likely to use subsidised legal aid than alimony payers. I don't have those numbers, but I can imagine. That will also have to do with their income position. Those who are obliged to pay alimony are likely to have a better income and therefore may not be eligible for legal aid, while those who have no income are automatically eligible for legal aid. It's in those role patterns. However, I can inform the Court that we are also looking at this kind of thing in the revision of legal aid. Legal aid is a very good right. This must also be done in order to maintain access to justice for vulnerable target groups. However, we must also avoid crookedness or abuse in order to preserve the system. Finally. Mrs Bikker asked what the financial consequences of this bill were. We've been watching that forever. We believe that the effects will be limited, also because of the derogations provided for in the law. As we calculate and calculate, we suspect that there may be a slight increase in the entitlement to assistance. There are also some things in the atmosphere of surcharges. If we add everything together, we will come, as we now estimate, to no more than EUR 15 million. On the other hand, we expect the law to have positive effects, including on state finances. Think, for example, of greater economic independence and a stronger incentive to participate in the labour market, resulting in higher tax revenues and less deduction of maintenance costs. This is also one of the reasons why we have said in the opinion on this bill: we think that the financial impact of this bill is so limited, I will not say negligible, that we do not see any major objections. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u83	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u84	Madam President. A few brief remarks. First of all, thanks to the authors and the Minister for the way in which they have answered all the questions. As far as I am concerned, that is a very good answer. As far as waiting for the results of investigations is concerned, my group is inclined to say that these kinds of issues are constantly moving and that there are constantly new investigations, so that this becomes an endless matter. We shouldn't want that. That doesn't do the business in itself any good. It is also expected that this will not provide insights that will provide more or easier answers to the questions. So I would say continue to investigate, that is what is happening, but also, above all, to continue with this legislation. I believe that this legislative proposal also shows that we must strive in this area to limit the action of the public authorities and also to limit the action of the judiciary. It's a very sensitive area. I think that the acceptance of decisions, either by the government or by the judiciary, is great if you have had as much of your own share and input as possible. This is good not only for acceptance, but also for legal certainty. In my opinion, we should also be careful not to make things too complicated. Of course, there are a lot of cases that are imaginable that are unsatisfactory for the sense of justice, but the more we want to regulate that, the more complicated we make it and the more we go in the direction of taxes, for example. This will in itself lead to further judicialisation. My group is not in favour of this. Finally. It is an issue that is constantly evolving. There's a lot more to it than just alimony. Think of the transitional arrangements, the distribution of the goods and the location of the marital home. All these things are extremely problematic. We should not want to do too much at once in this respect. Now we are talking about the fifteen-year deadline. We believe that this is one of the most urgent problems in this area. That is why I would like to say that we must continue with this kind of development and this kind of initiative, which, as far as we are concerned, can also come from the government. That would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u85	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u86	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Wijngaarden, who spoke on behalf of the initiators, and the Minister for the answers given. I will be very brief in the second term. In the debate on the usefulness and necessity of limiting the maximum period from twelve to five years, I have unfortunately not heard any new arguments either. On the one hand, I understand that it is quite difficult to provide figures, such as the relevant figure of how many alimony beneficiaries actually benefit from alimony at the moment with a period of 12 years and how many people end that alimony prematurely for any reason. Well, that's relevant. So unfortunately I haven't heard any new arguments on this point. Then there is the second point I raised: the poignant cases. I understand the line of defence of the initiators that they have done their very best, in all clarity: I also think that this should be done in terms of a maximum of 12 years to five years, but in three exceptional positions to be very precise when, in those situations, the time limit can go up to 10 years or up to 12 years. The point remains: I have to chew on it again and take it back to the group, why exactly those 15 years are at stake. In the debate the arguments were exchanged, but I continue to find that difficult. I would also like to draw attention to the argument put forward by Mrs Bikker, which relates to the situation with young children, particularly in adolescents. I haven't figured that out yet, but that insight will mature in the next week. Third. You can think differently about the point of the Supreme Court. The Minister and the initiators are clear in how they feel about this. I have looked at this from the other side before the debate. As far as I am concerned, we do not need to dwell on this for much longer. Last but not least, Madam President. I agree with the Minister that it is not the intention of this draft law to say that the situation of cohabitants is really a substantially different one from that of married people or registered partners. Moreover, I felt that the Minister, I think, misunderstood him, put the registered partners in the category of the cohabitant. I think the registered partners belong to the couple's group. The Minister nods, so I didn't get it right. They are subject to matrimonial property law and maintenance law. We shouldn't be getting a bout of portant child support for cohabitants. I conclude with something that I have also said when dealing with the draft law of the general community of goods to the limited community of goods, namely that this is without prejudice to the fact that the situation has changed dramatically from a social point of view. We have a lot more people living together in this country than married people. There's less marriage. I say to my own regret that this is even the case with my own children at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u87	I think that's a very bad one. You should have taken better care of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u88	Exactly! That will come, Madam President. I'm really convinced of that. But this is social reality. In particular, the position and rights of children become very important because children are born from situations where they are not married or where there is no registered partnership. As far as I am concerned, Madam President, that was it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u89	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u90	Mr. Chairman. I think we agree that it is most important that we work towards a society in which both men and women are economically independent. I am glad that the Minister has made that very clear. This means, as far as I am concerned, that we must make full use of it, including by the government. Having said that, I have a few comments to make to the authors. I understand that they have opted for a shorter maximum period on principle. Mr Van Wijngaarden used the term 'justice'. "We have a deeply rooted belief that it is necessary on the basis of justice to shorten that period," he used that kind of words. Then I think, "That's good." But if you do not put accompanying policies aside, as you so beautifully called them, I think that, above all, many women are only going backwards. I believe that accompanying policy is essential if you want to take this kind of step. Our questions focused in particular on this. I find it a little disappointing that the authors have given so little thought to how this should translate into measures, and that the Minister was very easily referred to. Fortunately, the Minister has considered this in detail. He also went beyond what I read in the written reply. He has promised, if that ibo is about part-time, to come up with measures based on that research. It is not just about measures in the sphere as they are now being taken, but also about measures that look a little more at culture, awareness and that sort of thing. That seems to me to be a good commitment. The Minister also promised that both the investigation and the cabinet position would also be sent to this Chamber. I welcome the Minister's commitment that in another wide-ranging study on alimony and its acceptance, he will take the position of cohabitants, recognising that people make their own choice. But I wonder if that's always such a conscious choice. I am a little older than you, and when I look around, I think that a lot of people haven't given that much thought or perhaps aren't ready yet. You have also made a commitment about communication. I'm happy about that. You have said that together with professionals and municipalities, you will end up sitting at municipalities where people register when they enter a marriage or opt for a social contract, looking at how you can do more than just publish on the government website, and that you will also look in there at what is needed for the less capable group. On the next point, on the evaluation, you have not yet gone into it, but perhaps you can do so in the second period. The evaluation isn't for another eight years. I asked for two points to be given a great deal of attention. The first concerns the position of the child support group with young children, whose authors say: we have not considered setting up a temporary arrangement for this; we believe that this group has a permanent right to an exception. I'm looking at that differently. I think it is important for this group to start from a system which is somewhat shorter and which means that this group too is much more able to provide for its own livelihood than if they maintain a permanent right to that exceptional position. The other point I would like to focus on in the evaluation is the functioning of the hardness clause. Frankly, I am shocked by the answer to my question as to what happens to 50-plussers when they turn 60. Then they fall into a hole, is my conclusion. Then women in that group are likely to call on the hardness clause. I would very much like the evaluation to look very closely at which cases and how they are used. All things considered, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, but I will do so with all the comments I have made. The bell on the speaker chair is on zero-zero-zero!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mrs Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our thanks to the Minister and the initiators for the answer. I had one more question open to the Minister, namely whether the results of the investigation will also be sent to this Chamber. We thought it was a good point for Mrs Bikker to include the aspect of man. We are also in favour of this proposal. I will advise the group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Vink. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the initiators and to the minister for the answer, especially for underlining that marriage is not an ordinary contract and that there is a lot of connection when we enter into a marriage. I think that makes marriage, when it's closed, a special and festive day. Anyway, we are now considering another element: if the debris is there, so if it went wrong. The legislative proposal then relies on the petitioners' desire to ensure that people are economically independent. But when we talk about the exceptional cases, I do not understand why this legislative proposal will then succeed better and whether people will indeed become more economically independent. I hope that after eight years in the evaluation we will at least see some of that support. Are the applicants planning to include this in the evaluation? That's what I'm asking the Minister. I do not know how long the minister or his successor will be there, perhaps 30 years, but I hope that this economic independence will be addressed in the evaluation. There's nothing wrong with the success of this bill. With regard to the exceptions, I have asked a number of questions. Frankly, I did not get an answer to that, but I did get a reply to what I had previously exchanged in writing. I'm just gonna walk them off one by one. First of all, the seven years for an additional measure for alimony beneficiaries over 50. You'll get alimony for more than ten years. After eight years, the evaluation. I think that is wrong, because if we do not succeed in getting 50+s working, then that exception has already been removed before the evaluation takes place. Do the proposers not think it is advisable to take this point in the interim, for example after five or six years I know that borders call for new discussions to have the finger on the wrist in the sense of: is this going to work or was this all too desirable? I would like to hear a further answer, including from the Minister, because otherwise it would simply mean a shift from the private burden to the collective burden, namely an additional call on assistance. Then the marriages that last longer than 15 years. That is also a limit for exceptions. I've been told the only argument for that is that you have to draw a line somewhere. I understand, because I have to. At the same time, according to the statistics, 15 years is now the average marriage duration. I am sorry that the authors have not supported this point anymore. I've been going over the CBS statistics for a while. Of course, you can explain that, but the trend is that marriages last longer. This means that this exception will increasingly be lightened. I do not mind that from my perspective, but I am curious about the perspective of the proposers and how they want to look back on this in eight years' time. What are they going to do about this in the evaluation? Then there is the issue of children, which has already been mentioned for me by several speakers. I gave the example of one kindergarten versus several teenagers. The applicants have chosen the exception to be taken into account as regards age. I asked whether you should not also look at the number of children and what stage of life presents the challenges. I therefore thank you for the commitment to include this aspect in the evaluation. I'm glad. At the same time, I wonder whether this aspect of the hardness clause will become an argument. After all, you could imagine that. Will the proposers promise that they will also see how this hardness clause will work out, especially with regard to this target group? Mr. Chairman. I've heard from the minister about the finances. I'm listening to it in such a way that in the end, Samsam, it's gonna be okay. I hope that this is where we are at. Let's take another look. What does this mean? I'm closing up. Economic independence is nice, I agree. But I do say: not on bread alone. Part-time work and being at home can also be a wonderful contribution to human lives and to society. I think it is very important, especially when we look at part-time work and the other position of the Netherlands vis-à-vis many other countries, that we look not only at the economy, but also at the well-being and position of the various partners, both men and women, more earning and less earning. I thank the Minister for the commitment, and I hope that we will not be able to write it on bread alone over this study.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u95	Thank you, Mrs Bikkers. I've seen that the petitioners need a brief ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u96	We will continue with the debate on the initiative legislative proposal of Van Wijngaarden, Keiken and Grothuizen: the Partner Maintenance Review Act (34231). I give the floor to the initiators. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u97	Madam President, through you I would like to thank the various speakers, the various senators, for the serious debate on a serious subject. I shall begin with Mr Schouwenaar. I thank him for his support. We agree with his observation that this is a subject on which there is constant movement. At the same time, we also welcome the fact that, after 25 years, we hope that we will be able to take a new step forward as far as we are concerned. As far as the proposers are concerned, it is time for that. I thank Mr Van Rij for his input. I would like to come back to the question of how big the problem is actually what we are talking about. As proposers, we have tried to realise that it is still thousands of cases and therefore still many people, a large group of people who pay alimony. This is still a major problem. Mr Van Rij rightly points out that you can look at the statements of the Supreme Court in different ways. That has also become clear in the debate, and that is also a good thing. At the same time, as proposers, we have indicated that, in the statements of the Supreme Court we have referred to, we see above all confirmation that it is right to make a normative ruling with this initiative law as legislator and to set a new standard. I would like to come back to the issue of care. We also discussed this in detail in the House of Representatives and tried to look as carefully as possible at the hardness clause for the distressing cases. That is precisely why we, as proposers, have also accepted the amendments tabled by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Nispen. I'm coming to Mrs. Vlietstra. I am sorry if we have given the impression that we do not think emancipation and emancipation policy is important. I would therefore like to take another look at the accompanying policy that we have in mind. I like to mention three things. I would add that, of course, they are not blissful, exhausting or sufficient. I call them to give a direction anyway. Then it will be further up to the cabinet to implement it further. We are thinking of compensation for wage costs. We are thinking of a harder approach to age discrimination. I have also tried to point out in the first term that this is an underrated problem as far as we are concerned. This is a question of age discrimination in the labour market, which, of course, is directed specifically at older people. And third, we are thinking of making the combination of care and work more attractive. As far as we are concerned, this should also be an important part of accompanying policy. I would also like to thank you for your support for our proposal. I would like to thank Mrs Vink for the questions she has asked and also for the support she has expressed. I would like to thank Mrs Bikker for her contribution. I'm still trying to deal with a few concerns that still live with her group. As far as the average is concerned, I do not want to try to turn it into some sort of statistical sharpening, because we are not going to get that much further. I think it is good to realize that an average never applies to everyone; there are many people who are not exactly on it. It's good to have said that. With regard to the choice we make with the initiative law that is now before us in this Chamber, I would say that it is not so much about the size of the exception groups, but above all about the key question of what we find a reasonable period of time for these people and what exceptional cases we see where that time limit has to be a little longer. It's about people getting back on with their lives, and that as much as possible on their own. The sooner, the better. We believe that is ultimately in their best interest. It might also be good to have noticed here that alimony, even now, is meant as a safety net, in case it all fails. The starting point is that people can go as far as possible on their own. And we've tried to take maximum account of it if people can't. The issue of economic independence is something we like to include in the evaluation. I'll give you my word on that. The deadline for the evaluation has been said. Eight years would be a little long. That is why it is a good thing to ask the Minister to carry out a mid-term review after five years, and we hope he will respond positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u98	Mrs. Bikker, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u99	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. I am just very pleased with this commitment. Thanks to the initiators. Of course, the Minister still has to confirm it, but step one has been taken. Oh, he looks very happy. That's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u100	Very good. Finally, Mr President. Thanks again to all the speakers for the careful debate. In the end, it's up to the Chamber to decide. It will not be surprising if I say that we hope for a positive outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u101	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u102	Well, the tension is rising, Mr. Chairman. I have two points and begin the evaluation. I can very well imagine something in an interim evaluation after five years. Then Mrs Bikker's point will be dealt with. There were some requests for certain parts to be included. I can say both of Mrs Vlietstra's points. The same applies to both of Mrs Bikker's points. It has already been referred to as economic independence, but the financial consequences of course also have a place in it. Finally, Mrs Vink asked about the investigation that is ongoing. She asked whether the First Chamber could also obtain a copy of it. I'll give you my word on that. I believe that will be completed in the autumn. Then I'll send you both the ibo research and the government's policy response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-eerstekamer-6.u103	We have come to deal with the initiative proposal. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. The vote is therefore next week, on 21 May. And we'd like to see the initiators come back.
