ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA, for her question on the harassment of 55-plussers by crooks. The question is addressed to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, these are all sad reports that we are discussing today in this oral Question Time. The same applies to the message I would like to speak to the Minister of Justice. More than a quarter of our seniors appear to be the victims of very clever chatter tricks. A fifth turns out to have actually been scammed. This follows from a study by KBO-PCOB, the Catholic and Protestant Christian unions of the elderly. They've done a study among over 1,300 seniors aged 55 and over. Whole trick boxes appear to have been ripped open, because nothing is awesome about these crooks. There was even a gang active that drew blood from vulnerable elderly people, and eventually they robbed the whole house. There's a gang active on blood, but there's a lot more gangs active, very poignant. What is particularly poignant is that older people do not even dare to report it, because they are so terribly ashamed that they have been fooled. Actually, that makes them the victim twice. We cannot say to all these elderly people often enough: please report it. But they don't dare and it also turns out to be very difficult to report, because almost all of this has to be done over the internet. Greetings for KBO-PCOB that they are trying to work on a solution by making seniors more resilient, more resilient to swindlers at the door, by phone or via the Internet. The organization provides training and has even developed an app that allows people to practice. The question to this minister today is: what will the cabinet do to help these people? How is the cabinet going to fight side by side to ensure that people do not become victims more often, but also to do them justice when they have been victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is very important that older people are resistant to internet crime and therefore also against these maleized chatting tricks, physical, but also mentally. I therefore embraced Mr Krol's motion about a year ago, and unanimously adopted it in your Chamber, in order to help older people to become more resistant in general to this Internet crime and all the tricks that go with it and to give them the tools to do so. At the beginning of this year, at least, we organised a special Safety Day for the elderly. I have not only opened up there myself, but also talked to the elderly: what are the problems you face and what can you do best to avoid them? In addition, my ministry has made it possible to finance a virtual resilience training, which the aforementioned organisation KBO-PCOB has developed together with the Vrije Universiteit for the elderly. We also launched public campaigns, including in April last year. And then it still happens that this scumbag............................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. Just a few more minutes. In the National Platform Combating Crime that I have together with business and the financial world, this will be on the agenda next time: how can we make meters on this subject? Furthermore, the subject of the conversation in the crime consultation with the Internet companies. In my letter to your Chamber of 15 November, I worked out a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	And now the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	Those are the answers to the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	The cabinet is therefore doing what is necessary and right to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. I always want more, and I always want more now. I can see that the Minister is doing very well to see how he can ensure that people know they need to be alert, but such an investigation indicates that we need to take another step. I therefore have a question for the Minister. He says there are information campaigns going on. I'm talking to older people who don't recognize them like that. So I still want to ask whether we can try not to do much more, perhaps even more on television and in all kinds of other ways, to inform people about what they can do to prevent them from being overwhelmed and that they are involved in tricks. On the other hand, we may also need to work with more organisations, for example with KBO-PCOB, to take another step to ensure that everyone knows that they have to be careful, but also that they know the local agent. That also turns out to be very sensitive. People have to report on the Internet, they don't dare and they don't know their own district agent. Can the Minister see how he can take a small extra step in education for this particularly vulnerable group, with a major campaign to ensure that these older people are not the victims? The Minister pointed out actions, including from the Chamber. The CDA has had a whole trajectory of its own. We've provided a note on in-house intelligence. Recently we received an answer to that and it said that the minister is talking to banks. I would like to know what the outcome is right now. Is that conversation over yet? It is often a question of financial settlement, which banks could not cooperate with. They could also provide people with insight into who conned them, so that they could actually go after the crooks. I therefore have two specific questions. Is it not possible to take another step to highlight the information campaign even more clearly? And what are the results of the consultation with the banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr President, these additional steps... I would like to stress that it is not always the case that I say, at a request from Mrs Van Toorenburg, that I am going to do more. Because there are times when you have to say: we really do everything we can. But I would like to say quite clearly, also in view of the vulnerability of that group, that I will, in the first place, also address the issue of the district agent in the next 10 days as a topic. For the declaration, as I said earlier in your Chamber, must always be optimally accessible to vulnerable groups. That's what I care about. I see that sometimes things happen in there that are not optimal. That is the theme we are going to bring forward this year. That's one. Two: we will certainly come up with a new public campaign in that context. I'd like to give you my word on that. I would like to stress the third point that has been made by the banks. Last year, I told the banks that we must all, of course, take responsibility for this. This has now led to increased cooperation between the banks and the National Information Point Internet Scam and to cooperation within the Electronic Crimes Task Force. The banks have really taken a step forward. We have yet to see whether this will actually produce meters, but this can also be done on the occasion of the new Safety Ten Days in spring 2020. But I want to make it very clear that this is a vulnerable group for which you can always ask me for an extra meter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	I don't think you're gonna run into it much more cowardly. We know this is a big problem. One in four elderly people is dealing with this. We know that very few people report this, because they are ashamed of themselves, which of course is not necessary, because it is unscrupulous scum that defrauds money. But we know that a lot of people don't press charges because they're ashamed of this. I would like to ask the Minister about this. Let us not just wait for reports to be made and let us not just bet on making these people more resilient. Let's also actively look for the criminals who do this. What are the Minister's efforts in this area? And what are the Minister's efforts to make district agents more visible in the neighborhood, so that the people who see these people walking around or who have been approached by them can ensure that they are arrested?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr President, if it is all right with you, I am not going to put it all together. That was in my letter of 15 November. In that you can see that the police and the public prosecutor are making a real extra effort on this increasing cybercrime, because I have to be very honest about that. These chatting tricks are an important part of that. We have set up this Electronic Crimes Task Force and we have said to the various sectors: we need to look much more at what we can do, including when it comes to payments. An example of this, which has been achieved in any case, is a collaboration with Marketplace and related companies on how these companies first put an extra check on desired payments, so that people still have an additional control moment. But I would like to inform you immediately, Mr President, that, as Mr Van Nispen says, I must be much more active and alert than other groups in society. We can't be alone with the resilience. Especially when a group is less resilient, you also need to have additional measures. I really admit that from my department, together with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, we are always working to tighten that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	Of course, I have just asked a question, but now that the Minister of the Interior has also come in, I feel the need to say something extra. We see that people are increasingly forced to do their actions on the Internet. I know that the Minister of the Interior embraces this, but is also reluctant because people must always be able to get in touch. But I would like to call on the cabinet to look at this very specifically, because if we force people to do anything more on the Internet, they will become even more vulnerable, because not everyone can do that. Then they try to do it on the internet, but then the sharks swim in through hacking and through phishing. I would also like to draw particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's actually more of a call to the cabinet. But you may respond briefly, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	Very briefly, Mr President, that is how you know me. But here's a bit of a conflicting movement. On the one hand, I see it as my personal mission to make vulnerable groups, especially older people, more resistant to the Internet. People like to use that, so I shouldn't tell them to stay away from it. On the other hand, I would like to say out loud that I must pay extra attention to protecting the people who are really bad at dealing with it against those groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you.
