ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the Langer action programme at home. I welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kerstens is unfortunately ill. He asked me to speak on behalf of the Labour Party, so I am doing so. Where to begin with this debate on the Langer programme of action at home? Maybe I should start with a warning. Too little is happening, too late to give the large and growing group of older people a comfortable place in our society. If you open the newspaper these weeks, it looks like we've unexpectedly let ourselves be attacked by a rapidly increasing number of 70-plussers. Dozens of elderly people a day in a hospital that shouldn't be there anymore but for whom no available help and guidance is at home or in another place. Thousands of elderly people waiting for a place in the nursing home. Carers who fall over because they can no longer take care of their neighbor. Emergency places where older people are increasingly arriving after an accident at home. It looks like we're being robbed, but of course nothing is less true. The honest story is a different story. We knew and we know what great challenges we face. Demographic development is no surprise. The fair story is also: finding solutions is not easy. This is tough stuff. We have made it difficult for ourselves to have three different laws of care that many older people have to invoke sooner or later. But precisely because it's tough and complex, there's a tendency to point to someone else. And that has happened a lot over the past few years. Live? That's not up to me. Prevention? I'm not allowed to invest in that. Taking care of people in the neighborhood? Unfortunately, I'm not allowed to use my nursing budget for that. Financing for the coordination of first-line residences? Yes, that's right, that was promised two years ago but technically very complicated and that's why it still hasn't worked out everywhere. Mr. Chairman. And then there's a warning about it. We ain't seen nothing yet. The problems that older people face today are only a harbinger of the problems that may arise if we have the real ageing peak. That is precisely why, precisely because it is a complex task and because the Minister has to use his term of office to create structural solutions but has not done enough of that in the last two years, that is why I am concerned. And that's why I have the following questions for the Minister. How can the chain get so jammed? Were the estimates and forecasts of the number of older people with a concern from the Ministry correct? Why hasn't the Minister taken appropriate measures before? Does the Minister see that the difference between available nursing home beds and larger demand is a problem, hampers the flow and needs to be resolved in the short term? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that some of the emergencies of the elderly in the hospital and the waiting lists for nursing homes can be avoided if health insurance companies and health offices can also invest in prevention? For example, investment in fall prevention, but also social trials on elderly people with dementia. What about the work agenda of Health Insurance companies Netherlands and the VNG? The Minister regularly refers to this and they have committed themselves to resolving problems in the region quickly and effectively, but I have not yet seen them again. What results has this produced so far? How will the Minister deal with the short-term problems of the bulkheads? Because it is the elderly who are the victims of this. The Minister has opened up one grant to housing, but that is only for new construction projects. What are the results so far? And what does the Minister do to adapt the existing construction to the needs of the elderly? How big is this task? How does the Minister intend to make the possibility of early retirement more known to carers? Because a lot of carers don't know about that either. Finally, also at municipal level, it is necessary to make clear in the short term the need for housing and care. That's wider than just the house statement. Can the Minister play an exciting role in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mrs Ellemeet is making a very penetrating analysis, but I do have one more question. I think there are quite a lot of plans in the action plan. Am I listening carefully now, for example when it comes to social trials, that you actually want more plans because it's not hard enough? Doesn't that make the better the enemy of good by bringing in more things? That's how you lose focus. Can Mrs Ellemeet reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	Someone who is busy with the care every day actually put it very strikingly. He said to me: the Langer programme of action at home is a drop in the ocean, which, of course, we are not opposed to, but it does not solve the real, hard, persistent problems. That is the essence of my criticism of the Langer Home programme. Sure, good things happen. The programme focuses mainly on the frontrunners in the country. We see them, too. There are, of course, institutions that are working very hard. There are drivers who take up their responsibilities, perhaps more than their responsibilities. But what I'm worried about is that we don't see a very large part of the Netherlands. It's quiet there. They get nothing from what's written in this program. What we need to do is go a little deeper. We need to look at the underlying problems. Those are tough and complicated. We can't just launch beautiful plans for that, after which they have been solved. That's what we need to start now. The problems are very big. The challenges will be even greater in the future. If we do not use this relatively quiet period to really make a difference, we will soon, in a manner of speaking, receive a daily request for a debate here, because the problems will accumulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	I understand. The Minister's action programme reveals three clear lines: what can we do with good support, what can we do for care, what can I hear coming back to your questions and what can we do with? That's what it says. I wonder if Mrs Ellemeet will not be doing more stacking. I understand the urgency. I understand digging deeper, but I'm very afraid that, if you bring in any more new things, the things that have been set in motion may be overlooked. I would like to hear something about that, because it is not that nothing is being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	No, it's not like nothing's going to be done. I see we're working on too many small plans. It's tough. It's complicated. The minister can't do it on his own. That would not do justice to reality. We need all parties. We need the healthcare offices, the health insurance companies and the municipalities, but we see, in view of the three themes, on the three lines of the programme, that it is still not working. Too many people have no idea there's respite care. Carers are gonna fall over. We see that there is one subsidy scheme for new construction projects. Well, we can figure out which people use it. These will be the highly educated, entrepreneurial elderly, while there is a very large group of vulnerable elderly people trapped in existing building homes that cannot afford to participate in a new building project. It is our job and our responsibility to stand up for those people. I don't want any more plans. I want us to make one big and firm plan of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Ellemeet. I call Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing one of the many programmes of this minister, a programme called Langer Home, with the aim of ensuring that older people can grow old independently in their own familiar environment, with a good quality of life. Unfortunately, I agree with Mr Ellemeet's passionate remarks that things are not going well, despite, and we can also read this in the progress report, that progress is being made. The worries are increasing. The battle for practice is still under way. The minister said earlier, "Grandma has to know the difference." However, we can see at this moment that grandma can hardly enter a nursing home because the access is very difficult at the moment, looking at the increasing waiting lists. In addition, we also see that the support structure does not work sufficiently at home. Why don't you order a brace for the bathroom from a town council? You'll be busy for weeks if you want an adjustment in your apartment. Despite the fact that we often talk here about new housing-care combinations, I believe that all the parties have put forward proposals for this, which are not yet sufficiently off the ground. The Social and Cultural Planning Office recently estimated that there are only 5,400 elderly people living in new home-care combinations. We have been able to read a very large article about the Task Force Living and Care. That task force is coming up with plans. Fine, but I honestly thought that task force was already there. I read the article because I wanted to know what's new, but I couldn't get it all out. In any case, the task force will come forward with plans at the end of the year. I hope, as I say to the chairman, that there are people from practice in it. I hope that there will be community nurses, family care organisations, elderly organisations and voluntary organisations. What is needed now is to bring in knowledge from practice, where things are not going well. I'd like a commitment from the Minister. Of course, there are also about 1.2 million elderly people who can stay at home with the help of friends and family. But the support of the many carers often falls short when things are no longer at home. During the reforms of Langer Home, we agreed that if there is no longer any possibility and there is a Wlz indication, there must be a place in the nursing home. That's where it's gonna go wrong. I remember an interruption debate with Mrs Agema. That was the debate on whether or not to be an active waiter. They're often all people with an urgent question. We also see that the waiting lists are only increasing. Look at people with a care package 4. They're barely getting into a nursing home anymore. What's going on out there, I'm asking the Minister. We also see the consequences in practice. Older people end up in the hospital. They end up in crisis areas that are often not entirely focused on such a serious concern. Also in the treatment and in the number of hours it does not go well there. Mr. Chairman. The system's jammed. I can imagine the Minister pointing to developments in the labour market and demography. Yes, they make the problems stronger, but the problems are bigger than just this and the problems are now playing. Usually I have an extensive story with a lot of subjects in the category varia, but now I've focused on the big challenges. I only have two more questions for the Minister. Is the Minister aware that the system is really clogged? Does he see and feel the urgency? I don't see that in the policy papers. And, more importantly, I don't see it back in practice. Is he prepared to list, in addition to all the old-age care programmes that are under way, what steps he is going to take in the short term to solve the current problems? We are still getting a vision from the committee, which is also going to be given thanks to our motion. That's a prospect. That's more like a vision document. We see that there are problems now in the short term. Mr. Chairman. I've asked Anne-Mei The, the initiator of the social trials, how it's going now. She also says when it comes to funding to get that off the ground: it takes so much effort. I thought that was a good example. The progress report says we have those trials. Then you ask how it goes and you're actually scared to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mrs Bergkamp wrote a piece in the NRC last week. In that she actually lanced for what is then called vpt, the complete package at home. That's actually a form of nursing home care at home. I've visited several institutions. My experience with those packages at home is that they are very often used in what I call hidden nursing homes. These are complexes where elderly people live together, where they have to pay sky high rents and where nursing care is delivered to home with such a package. Officially these are not nursing homes, but in practice they are the same. People live there together in their 20s and all have their own package at home. My question to Mrs Bergkamp is whether she thinks this is a development that you should encourage, so that especially people with a lot of money who can pay a high rent get nursing care in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm gonna go see if I fully understand the question. Look, of course, we've agreed that if things don't work out at home, you can have access to a nursing home with an zzp 4 provided someone wants it, of course. We see that the waiting lists forzzp 4, 5 and 6 are increasing. I'm very worried about that. You just see that there is not enough capacity at the moment, and I am not even talking about the ageing population. In addition, we have ensured that the complete package at home (vpt) and the modular package at home (mpt) are beautiful forms for people to stay at home in their own environment. Two weeks ago, I went to work and I saw in practice what a vpt like that is. People are thrilled about that. The only thing is that they often don't know it exists, so they find out by chance. That is why I will be calling in a moment for greater awareness of it. I think it's a very nice shape. Of course, it has to be used. In addition, I am indeed concerned about the access to the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's not exactly an answer to my question. I am talking about those places where enthusiasts start building small-scale facilities for the elderly, so that they can live beautifully and grow old. They can only do this now because they have investors, developers who buy a property for a lot of money and make a huge return, demanding from residents rent from sometimes €1,500 to €2,000 per month. They then buy care through the home packages. Those people don't actually live in the house where they lived the years before, they live in that complex now, but that's not an official nursing home, they're actually clustered homes. That's where the packages are offered together. My problem with that is that they are very nice locations, but that it is simply impossible for a lot of people to pay, because most people cannot pay €2,000 a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	The basis of our system is that the care must of course be accessible to people with a less large scholarship. Absolutely, I think that's really essential. I see another development, namely that new housing-care combinations are emerging, clustered living, where people can stay at home using the full package, which they are very happy with. I welcome that. The trend that the SP sees that it is only affordable for people with a large scholarship, I would frankly regret. I see a lot of initiatives coming up myself, and I think we have also encouraged them from the Chamber. These are beautiful new home-care combinations, where people with a Wlz indication, a vpt or a mpt can simply stay independent. I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. From 2015 onwards, the nursing homes are completely closed. From left to right, from GroenLinks and PvdA to VVD and D66, that was a good idea. The nursing homes could be closed, because people would like to live at home for as long as possible. This has caused a great deal of suffering in recent years: people who sometimes have to stay at home because they can't go anywhere. We recently saw in a beautiful report by Nieuwsuur that there are guards in hospitals. Those are the elderly who are in the hospital, when they can actually get out, but can't go home and can't go to a nursing home. 9% of the beds in some hospitals are occupied by guards, i.e. elderly people who do not really belong there, who take up a very expensive bed there and who could actually very well go to a nursing home. Has this been a useful austerity? I've been looking at what this cuts in nursing homes actually do. That's 200 million euros. Over the past six months, the government has left 14 billion on the government budget. 14 billion. This cut was worth 200 million. So we could keep the nursing homes open for 70 years with the money we've been left over for the last six months alone. I'm just saying, what a pain you can cause for so little money. We've said many times that you shouldn't have closed down those nursing homes. The gap between a nursing home and home has become far too big. We've also seen a lot of research now. 40% of the elderly can very well imagine moving towards a form of small-scale housing at some point. We, as SP, have linked the plan for the care neighbourhoods to that. We had a nice debate on this last year and we also received support from the Chamber for that initiative. There's a subsidy scheme. I'd like to know from the Minister what's going on with that grant pot. Is it empty yet? Is that pot getting bigger? What kind of initiatives are being launched now? And what's he gonna do to speed things up? Because I very much agree with the others that things are not getting along very well. Mr. Chairman. The scare I have in mind is an article that we were able to read in The Guardian last week. It's about England. In England, 84% of care for the elderly is in the hands of commercial parties. I just had that discussion with Mrs Bergkamp. Then we're talking about real estate guys and sometimes even real estate giants, big companies buying up healthcare institutions. They rent housing in it and make a profit on the rent. Then we are no longer talking about equal access for everyone to a beautiful place in a health centre or other small-scale institution, but about division. 'Cause what's gonna happen if we go this way? Then the elderly with a small grant, with little money, will have to stay at home as long as possible and the happy few, the people who can pay up to €1,500 or €2,000 per month sometimes the amounts go even further in such a beautiful small-scale institution. My question to the Minister is: is that our foreland now? Is that what we want to go to? Do we want small-scale care in our own neighborhood to be available only for people who can afford it? Or is he willing to take the lead himself, not just to look at the market to build small-scale housing initiatives, but to take the lead himself? I really think that should be done, because if we do not, it will only be the developers who are going to buy up and rent these buildings. Then we'll have all these nursing packages at home and these expensive complexes, but there's no place for the common man and the common woman at an old age. So I ask the Minister once again whether he is prepared to sit down with municipalities, corporations and healthcare providers to ensure that performance agreements are reached on the construction of small-scale housing facilities, including the health centre, which we, as SP, strongly support. That is, finally, my question. Does he want to leave it to the market, or is he, now that we see the huge growth of the need for these kinds of places, willing to take the lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yeah, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u18	I still have one more question. We just had an interruption about the whole package at home, the vpt. I hope Mr Hijink agrees with me that the vpt can be a very nice form for people to stay at home. As I interpret his words, he is concerned that it is only feasible for the happy few. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have no objection if people want to stay at home, in the house where they lived the years before, and get care at home. I just wonder if this is a sustainable model when we look at the distant future. We've had the discussion about the neighborhood nursing. Is it still feasible to have to offer care to dozens of elderly people in the same neighbourhood? The reason many people don't want to move to a small-scale home is because people have a scare in their heads when they think about a nursing home. With all due respect, people don't want to go there. If we, as a society, manage to build small-scale housing in a more beautiful way, including the care district house and the courtyards, like Knarrenhof, then I think that the group of people who will say at a certain age "this is actually a good time to move and care is in order" will get bigger. But you have to organize that as a society. You can't wait for market players to solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u20	I share that direction is very important to stimulate that. That's what the task force's gonna do. But I still have one more question. It is also important that older people have the opportunity to choose, isn't it? They can choose a vpt at home. Mr Hijink says there's nothing wrong with that. If it doesn't work anymore, then there must also be the possibility of a nursing home. But I don't think there's anything wrong with it either if you can get a vpt in clustered living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u21	A vpt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u22	Sorry, the full package at home. There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u23	No, but Mrs Bergkamp is talking about choosing now. D66, supported by other parties in this room, has removed the choice from people. Under the guise of "everyone wants to live at home for as long as possible," the choice for a small-scale form of housing has disappeared. People don't have that choice anymore. People should stay at home for as long as possible, against remembrance and mug, sometimes when they can't do it anymore. We have always had a problem with that. We have always resisted this. And yes, if people eventually want some kind of nursing home care at home, that's fine with me. But I'm not okay with these kinds of packages being abused to live in some kind of small-scale housing. I have seen very beautiful buildings, such as an old monastery, where with these packages a form of nursing home care is offered at home, but where only elderly people can go who can cough up the rent of €2,000, €2,500 per month. I have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u24	Finally, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have always said, including with regard to the reforms of long-term care, that if it is no longer at home, there must be a place in the nursing home and the support at home should be good. That is why we have also argued for such a form, such as a full package at home, a vpt, or a modular package at home, a mpt, to be possible. I do not think we are at all so different that it should be possible in your own environment, but that you should also be able to get one of those packages if you want to live elsewhere. I share the concerns: it should not be that it is only feasible for people with a large scholarship. I don't think there's that much light between our stories at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u26	Okay, well, then that's clarified, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u27	Well, not quite, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u28	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u29	Because there is a difference. When it comes to long-term care and the group of elderly people who are lonely at home, who have fallen a few times, who simply do not dare to live at home anymore, but who do not end up in the nursing home because they do not get that indication because they are supported with all kinds of other help to stay home for as long as possible, we have always said that you have to meet that group. It's actually very basic: that's the elderly group that used to be in the nursing home. I don't want to go back to those long hallways of the nursing home, but I do want to keep helping that group of people. As far as we are concerned, this group of people should again have access to long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u30	I'm just gonna let the story work on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u31	That's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u32	However, I would like to hear from you whether you can indicate to the VVD what the group you are specifically talking about, which decides to live small-scalely and apply for a vpt, has a detrimental effect on the other group, which you are so passionately advocating, and which also has our support. Where does one go at the expense of the other? Why wouldn't it be en-and?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u33	It could be. Only, I object to creating the possibility of living small-scale if it only applies to high-income people, only to the group that can cough that up. I see that in too few places, for example, corporations and municipalities are involved to make it affordable for everyone. I do not think that you should leave that to the market, entrepreneurs and market players, but that you need an active government to make a plan with corporations and healthcare providers instead of waiting and hoping for it to work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u34	Rounding up. Can I conclude, then, that the social image of the Socialist Party vis-à-vis society as a whole also applies specifically to this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u35	If Mrs Laan says that the SP carries out its ideological vision on all possible political points as precisely as possible, that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you. When the VVD calls the SP "Socialist Party," you know that a big difference is made. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Almost everyone wants to live at home for as long as possible; that is beyond question. But the gap between independent living at home and the nursing home is just way too big right now. That has already been said by others, and I can only endorse it. The nursing home is actually more of a hospice nowadays, because the average lead time is seven and a half months and is getting shorter and shorter. In the Langer Home action programme we see a lot of experimental gardens, pilots and covenants. There are so many that you can hardly see the forest through the trees. The minister may agree to a moving agreement, but it still happens that a lady from Lelystad moves with a custom wheelchair to Dronten and then has to turn in the wheelchair in Lelystad. It disappears to a depot. She then has to wait months in Dronten for a new custom wheelchair. That was shown last Saturday in Radar. That's just an incredible waste of care money and it's not for anyone to explain. Why can't the Minister tighten that up? So that covenant just doesn't work everywhere. It has been a thorn in the eye for 50PLUS for years that there are so many differences between municipalities. The minister really needs to take more direction. Take the help a caretaker can get. It now depends too much on the municipality in which someone lives. Amsterdam wanted to cut down almost millions on family care. That has been added for a moment now, but we are afraid that the long-term provision will not be secure. We would like to ask the Minister how he is going to take care of that. And how is the Minister going to make sure that carers know what to expect from the government? Because a lot of people are not aware that grace care is a possibility. As long as they are, caregivers seem outlawed, while we need them oh so much. Mr. Chairman. For people who are temporarily ill, the first-line residence is of great importance, so that they can live at home. Good coordination within the region cannot be lacking. Half of the regional coordination functions for first-line residence do not yet meet the requirements. 50PLUS is getting signals that this has to do with, among other things, the fact that health insurance companies do not want to facilitate this sufficiently, while money is available for it. Is the Minister getting those signals? And is the Minister prepared to engage with health insurers and encourage them to allocate sufficient funds to the coordination functions? Mr. Chairman. Now, my most important subject. My predecessors have already spoken about it: it starts with living. Affordable alternatives are simply far too few. It has already been said: citizens' initiatives are taken by highly educated people with money who know the way in the country of regulation. But if you don't... You yourself mentioned the Knarrenhof as an example. Actually, that's an old example. It has also taken eighteen years to achieve this. It's just taking way too long. Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to take the minister to Hilversum sometime. There we have a number of residential care centers, like The Egelantier. That's one example. There you have a closed department for dementias, affordable leaning homes and a nice brasserie downstairs where also people from the neighborhood can drink nice coffee. There is physical therapy, a hairdresser, a pharmacy, but also childcare. Those little kids are gonna play upstairs with the elders. It is a good example of how it can be done and what is affordable. There should be a lot more of that. The Minister must therefore be much more strict towards municipalities, housing corporations and health care institutions. You can certainly play an important role towards municipalities, because they simply need to give more ground for these social purposes. That might be a little less than big, prestigious projects, but it's just necessary. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my question is whether, if this does not work, the Minister would even like to regulate this legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u39	Madam President. We prefer to get older in our own house, with family close and in our own environment. If all this is no longer self-evident, our older people must be able to trust that care, care and a suitable home are well arranged. I am therefore pleased with the programme Langer Home. I'm also saying that on behalf of my mother. I think we all have an example in mind somewhere of our own parents or of older people in our environment. Let's keep them on the retina. I see a multitude of lines of action and indicators. You just don't see the forest through the trees anymore. The first question to the Minister is when this programme is a success. How do we measure that? Because it's so much and it's so complex. How do we measure that? I think a quote from the minister came by earlier: "Grandma has to notice." He himself made it very tangible and very visual, but when I read all those indicators and lines of action, I get a bit lost. Many colleagues have already mentioned the transition from home to a nursing home and all the barriers there are. Yesterday, Vilans' report came out with eight bottlenecks. At the end of this year, the Forest Commission will present its report. Does that committee take those eight issues too? Are they being watched together? Because if we want older people to live longer at home, it is also important to create strong local integrated care networks where formal and informal care come together and connect well, without bulkheads. How does Langer Home contribute to this and how are seniors themselves involved? Is it not a good idea to form a team of experience experts through the Council of Elders? Madam President. The Christian Union Group has supported small-scale housing initiatives for older people with the Manifest Ageing Manifest. The Task Force Living and Care is now going to map out a lot, but are there also concrete steps taken, for example with housing corporations to allocate a certain percentage of the new building to senior housing? I agree with the concern expressed here and there that this should not only be an initiative for people with a great deal of potential, better educated and with a good wallet, but that everyone should benefit from such initiatives. Is the Minister prepared to encourage provinces and municipalities to conclude older people's housing agreements, especially in the places where large health care institutions withdraw and there is a shortage of nursing homes? I am also curious about the implementation of the Incentive Scheme Living and Care. The Knarrenhof has been mentioned here and there. Everyone has been there once or has at least spoken warm words about it, but it is strange that this perspective is so difficult to qualify for this incentive arrangement. It is precisely an initiative that we want to push that has to do with barriers. That also has to do with the form, namely a cooperative. Shouldn't we take a very special look at the form of a cooperative, where banks still have difficulty in providing this form and difficult money? Can we encourage them to overcome cold feet and ensure that such initiatives are supported? Finally, four brief topics. Carers suffer from regulation and administrative burdens. Recently, Mantelzorg has offered the Netherlands a scrapcard for care to the minister with nine concrete action points. When does the Minister intend to have concrete solutions? I agree with the questions about social trials dementia. The D66 and GroenLinks colleagues have asked questions about this. I get nice reports about the results of the pilots, but at the same time the funding is difficult. Is the Minister prepared to put a little more pressure on this, so that the municipalities will pay the social approach teams more quickly? My group would like to see mental care in the home situation financed separately after 2020 through regional life-care centres or payment agencies. When will this be clear? Finally, Madam President. The Christian Union believes in a society in which older people feel seen and appreciated and can continue to participate. In that light, I am curious to see what is going on with the general public campaign on the revaluation of old age. I see that date moving over every time. I am a little concerned about that, because our older people can benefit from it, and certainly in the image we can do them even more justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u40	I have a question about the various bulkheads that are constantly encountered in the care. When I speak to healthcare providers, they often say that they manage to have different groups living together in a beautiful setting, but behind the scenes it is a bureaucratic monster. One elderly person is in the Wmo with the municipality, the other older person gets community care through the health insurance company and another group is in the Long-term Care Act. Everyone does their best not to burden the elderly themselves with this misery, but behind the scenes sometimes two or three people sit behind the computer all day long to arrange the declarations and the bureaucratic processes. That's absurd, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yes. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u42	We could solve that, I suggested this earlier, if we would give the group of elderly people who were previously able to attend the nursing home access to the Long-Term Care Act. I just told you that $200 million has been cut off on these elderly people. On this basis, they could already join those small-scale institutions at an earlier stage, for example after a fall or if they are lonely or have another indication of sheltered living. This will solve the whole bureaucratic burden and will no longer have to appoint all the bureaucratic forces that are behind the computer all day long. That's actually a very simple solution, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u43	I find it difficult to see now what the consequences might be. I can only imagine that the Minister can say a lot of sensible things about that. I think that we are all looking for simplification, for slippage between all these different arrangements. We're all running into the same bottlenecks and we're all looking for forms between home and nursing home. That's what we're doing. So I support that. It was indeed an initiative of the SP Group that immediately wanted a lot of houses, but the idea behind that was very appealing to me. That's what we're looking for. That was, for example, my question about the Knarrenhof, which is also subject to this kind of bureaucracy. That is extremely frustrating, because they are people of good will with a warm heart for the elderly and we need to make it as simple as possible. So agree with the thought, but I find it equally difficult to see what the consequences might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr Segers says that we have made it a complex system. Of course, that plays in the area of living, but it also plays wider. That's what you hear in practice. For example, it is quite complicated in a region or district to really get this cooperation off the ground because we are dealing with different financiers and with different interests. Is Mr Segers also prepared to look at this very fundamentally? Are there no taboos about him? In other words, if the solution is that we should change something about the system, is he prepared to take those steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u45	When I say these days that there are no taboos, I must immediately think about the PAS or the problem of nitrogen. I must also say every time that there are no taboos. Of course there are no taboos here. We also know that the rulers want to think about the affordability and organisation of care. That will take place in the budgetary procedure and beyond. No, there's no taboos. It's so complex now. I started with that and others have said it. I see that here, too. It's so complicated sometimes when, when I think about my mother, it's so simple. You want good care close, as long as you can at home. It has to be human-focused, it has to be focused on the client, the patient or the older one. The rest is subordinate to that. Man is leading and not the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u46	That is good to hear, because I believe that the Minister has been sent with the message to try to organise care as well as possible, but within the current system. At least I have heard him say several times: I do not want a system change. Well, I don't want that either; that should never be a goal. But if we all conclude that we have made it so complicated that we should change the system or the way in which we organise funding for older people, then I hear Mr Segers say: fine, if that is what is needed, then, if we come to that conclusion, there should also be room for this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u47	In my view, we all share a bit of concern about a very large system discussion, because then you are going to have a little bit of a mess and it is very doubtful whether older people have been helped with this right away. But basically I do not know any taboos and my approach is how we can make it even easier and even more accessible with even fewer bulkheads, so that people with a warm heart who want to provide care can do so more easily and indeed not have to do with that bureaucracy that Mr Hijink referred to, and that people who need that care, who also get much sooner and much faster. I think that's our common goal and I don't know any taboos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Home sweet home. Your own fireplace is worth gold. The way the clock is ticking at home, it's not ticking anywhere. They are well-known old Dutch sayings of which we all know the meaning well. Having a home is for people, and for us, the most important. It's one of the necessities of life. It is therefore important for the VVD that older people can choose whether to stay at home. They're in charge of their own lives. That's a big good. They know for themselves what is best for them, as they have the most life experience. We also see that people want to stay home longer and longer. We must realise that this is a major challenge for society and the immediate environment, both physically and socially. Mr. Chairman. Living longer at home requires adjustments in daily living conditions. Think of making a house future-proof, such as very practically installing a walk-in shower. These technical adaptations are of course not the most important thing to stay at home, but they do contribute to staying equal or even improving the quality of life. Because that's what it's all about in the end. A mix of factors affects the quality of life. Think of the changes to the house just mentioned, the support in the social environment and getting the necessary care. These factors need to be in order so that living at home can be done at all. One factor that is added at this time is finding a suitable home. A number of colleagues have already said something about it. With the current housing market, it is also increasingly difficult for older people. A brief question about this. How does this minister work with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that more homes for the elderly can be realized? I'd like a concrete answer. Where is the direction on this subject currently invested? The task force has a job to do, but does he have a force? Can he contribute to anything? Is he fixing anything? The Knarrenhof has just been mentioned. We say, "Build some dumps." The second factor, supporting the social environment, involves the help of carers. That too has already been mentioned. In recent reports I have read about the pressure that carers experience. This concerns me. Literally every day there's something about it in the paper. With the longer stay at home of an increasingly large group of people, the pressure on the current and future carers will also continue to increase. We have all read that the number of 75-plussers will almost double by 2040. Then the Netherlands has about 2.6 million 75-plussers. We already have 365 000 heavily-burdened carers in our country. These are a little more people than living in the city of Utrecht. Individuals whose lives consist of caring for another, so actually something that is very beautiful. The numbers are impressive, but we need to be aware of what that is like for Mrs De Visser who sits at home and looks at this. She's asking what we're all doing for her to organize that she can stay at home. If she lives at home and something happens to her, how do we get her what she needs? Communication about this is sometimes quite complicated and difficult for people. Another colleague has already said something about this. I would like to hear from the Minister how this communication can be improved. I do not see much of it in the action plan. It's a lot about what other organizations are going to do. But how's Mrs. De Visser? I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this. Mr. Chairman. The third factor, the necessary care at home, is not guaranteed to date either. Last weekend I heard a story from Limburg, that a lady who has gone blind must wait four months for the necessary home care. Four months! She's single. Her kids are working. How can this lady get help in such a situation? Where can she knock? They're persistent bottlenecks. Then we'll look at the program. The Minister loves programs; I know that. But, for example, I read in the programme that ten projects have strengthened the social base. Ten out of how many projects? How many older people can stay at home? I don't know. It also says: 35 local care networks have been funded by ZonMW, with a range of 200,000 older people. Okay, but what good is it to these elderly people that they've been achieved? Have they actually been given a better quality of life? We want to see these best practices. Mr President, I will conclude. Longer living at home is desirable. However, there must be a home. You've heard what all depends on it. That's what makes the complex. But everyone deserves their home to stay a home. We must continue to bet on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u50	Also warm words about the Knarrenhof, and the encouragement to build more courtyards. If funding is difficult because it is a cooperative, an initiative of residents themselves, then we can find the VVD group on our side if we say: make it easier for those cooperatives to be eligible for the incentive scheme or for a loan from the bank. If there are practical objections, we must remove them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u51	I think I will initially refer to the agreements that municipalities make with housing corporations. From the Empire we can alert municipalities and we can also "press" to make better arrangements with the housing corporations. I think that there is a chance there, so that they can also take up the social function they have at the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u52	But there's a difference between a corporation and a cooperative. Yes, you can make agreements with a corporation. For example, I would like to say: if you are planning new buildings, make a section available for senior housing, for this kind of new housing. A cooperative is really an initiative of citizens, of residents themselves. The Knarrenhof took a very long time and had to go through a lot of rowing and windows before they could finally start. Now there's an incentive arrangement that's actually meant for them. We all call it the Knarrenhof, all great, but they say, because we're a cooperative, that's very difficult. Then we must try to remove the barriers there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u53	I fully agree with Mr Segers. If you have any proposals for that, we would like to take a favourable look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u54	I have just made the point of cutting back on the nursing homes, the EUR 200 million that this cut will bring this year. We all know that this austerity has caused a great deal of unrest. People who are no longer able to go to an institution they would like to go to. A lot of people who have to live at home for a long time. When you see the suffering caused by this austerity, my question is whether the VVD finds that 200 million cuts outweighs the social damage that has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u55	Yeah, we think so, because we're looking at the whole system. If Mr Hijink raises this, it is probably based on a number of individual cases he has spoken. I am well aware that whatever changes or changes to government policies you make, there are always people who get in trouble. We always have to keep an eye on that, but at the heart of it, I don't think you can avoid changing a few things in this society. Then clarity is also sometimes a statement. Of course, that is not pleasant for the individual people affected by it, but we support the general consideration that has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u56	You have to change some things now and then; I assume that we are trying to change things here for the better and that we want the best to happen for the elderly who, I hope, we all have a warm heart for. I'm gonna ask the question again about the 200 million. If you look at what has been left of the government budget over the past six months, EUR 14 billion, we could have kept the nursing homes open over the next 70 years for the amount that has been left on the government budget for the last six months alone. I am thinking of the people who are now in the hospital and who are no longer able to go to an institution and the elderly who are forced to stay at home. I would ask a very normal question to the VVD, namely: what is fair about this very limited reduction of 200 million... we talked last week about billions of.... with so much social suffering?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u57	The way in which Mr Hijink formulates it, I understand by myself. I didn't just interrupt for nothing. You see the world through socialist glasses. We look at the world through a liberal pair of glasses, in which we want to give everyone the space to choose how he or she grows older or preferably together at an older age. You are now focusing specifically on one cut. It was part of a very large system change that we no longer want to go through with each other. We made that choice at the time. We support the decision taken at the time. I would point out that there are indeed people who have been personally affected in this way. Of course, we find this regrettable. It's about taking care of everyone in this country in the long term. It's not just about people who can pay less. It's about people who can afford it well and have saved their whole lives to have a good old age when they're older; I also hear some negative sounds that it would be bad if you had spared it, while I think it's very good if you do. Everyone in the Netherlands is therefore entitled to good care for the elderly. Sometimes you have to make choices. This is the consequence of one of those choices and we still support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u58	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u59	Now Mrs Laan is actually making it worse, because it was indeed part of the change in the system, where there was also a huge reduction in home care. So people were denied access to the nursing home and there was also a cut in home care. People were double-up. The VVD did that, along with the PvdA. You are talking about freedom of choice: older people must have the choice. You're just taking people's choices. Of course, it's always good if people want to stay at home. Those people need your support as best they can. But also give people the choice to go to a small-scale institution if they want to. That's freedom of choice, too. I don't see that freedom of choice at the VVD. In fact, it has been systematically broken down at the VVD in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u60	I didn't expect anything different from the SP: everything that happened in the past ends up on my shoulders. And that is right, because I am from the party that has been part of the government all these years. We are now ensuring, with the Minister and this cabinet, that we look to the future. It looks at affordable care for everyone in this country, whether you bring a wallet or not. Everyone must be able to age well and worthy. We have made the choices we have made in the past and we will make the choices in the future. Dignified ageing and loving care for everyone are central to us. It doesn't matter where you come from or what you've done in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u61	I hear Mrs Laan say she wants to press the municipalities. She believes that this is important in organising forms of housing for senior citizens. I wonder how Mrs Laan sees that. What pressure is she thinking about? And how much pressure should this pressure be towards municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u62	For the latter, I refer to my question to the Minister. To what extent can he give concrete form to this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is about to live? I meant to say that, at least in the social sector, municipalities make agreements with housing corporations, on the basis of product agreements. Each year, a programme is agreed between the administration of the municipality and the governing bodies of the housing corporations. As far as I'm concerned, the Empire could give older people a better place in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u63	Those appointments for ten residential arrangements a year are already there. Experts think that ambition is far too little. A lot of agreements have actually been made, but the perseverance force is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u64	I refer once again to my question to the Minister. That is why I asked him to what extent he made concrete agreements with BZK on this matter. How are the discussions between these two ministries? I think there's a lot of shit going on out there. One goes over and the other goes over, and if everyone's about it, nobody's about it anymore. I would therefore like a specific answer from the Minister. And then I can continue to talk to you about how we can move and switch to make it even more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u65	I have also asked the Minister the same question, but I am so curious as to see how the VVD sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u66	I can now tell you how I feel that two ministries should work together. I have some very clear images of this, but I do not think that this is the place where we should have that debate. We're talking about older people who want to live longer at home. It is up to the Minister how he implements the wishes of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u67	There will also be an extensive budget debate. Perhaps this will be raised there, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u68	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u69	That's how I know you, and thank you very much, Mrs. Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many older people prefer to grow old in their own environment. But then you must be able to rely on good care being provided at home and support for carers. The Minister has tried to implement this action programme along three lines and to indicate a 'butt', if I may put it that way. I want to go through those three lines. First of all: good support and care at home. For me, the core of that programme is that many people living at home can be helped with technical tools. But I wonder if there is a need for more direction. Let me give you an example: the talking flowerpot Tessa. I came to an older lady during a working visit in Utrecht, who told me very enthusiastically about Tessa. Tessa is a doll, which can be used in a novice form of dementia and which helps people to remember, for example, that they have to take medication and have to eat and move. The home care organisation was also enthusiastic, because it saves many intermediate visits. A month later, I came to another congregation. That's exactly where they said not to use Tessa, because that flowerpot seems to scare people off. They use a different product to give people structure. I'm not interested in which of those products is the best. But I am often confronted with different products that one organisation does not know and for which the other has an alternative. Because of the growing demand for support, I think the time has passed that we can leave it to "a thousand flowers to bloom." It's time for scaling up and standardization. How does the Minister look at a targeted approach, which really assesses innovations for their added value? Why, for example, does ZonMw, together with TNO, not present an annual overview, à la Consumentenbond, of the products that best support people in certain conditions? And can the Minister, in order to gain valuable time, promote better data exchange between care and care workers, so that the medication contained in the treatment plan is timely and accurate at all times? A report by the Patient Federation made it clear that this is not a good thing. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second line: care. In order to stay home longer, the use of carers is indispensable. Many carers are already at age. The problems experienced by older people are also common to them. For example, we have heard a number of poignant reports about elderly people who come to the CBR on a waiting list and are therefore less able to provide care. But a more important problem here is the cultural problem: it is difficult to speak within the family about what family care can mean. There's a lot of parents going to their kids. I would like the Minister to see whether he can use the coming period to bring about some sort of cultural change so that an open conversation can take place. In the context of family care, there is a group of volunteers: the palliative carers. They have a lot of knowledge, and they often have a background in care. Unfortunately, this group is often not yet found by the district nurse. Just in that last phase of life, when so much comes to the family, these volunteers can and want to play a role. Does the Minister have any ideas for this, so that the district nurse would rather call on the palliative carers? Finally, the last line, namely living. Often elderly people don't want to leave their familiar neighbourhood or neighborhood, but some seniors do want a home that fits their last phase of life. We do notice that municipalities and housing corporations are doing their best, but there is still too little offer for senior citizens. I see there are many small projects emerging. I'd still like to see what the other problem is living with. That's what we notice when people have to go to the emergency room. I am also thinking of the waiting lists in the hospitals, which we mentioned earlier. Can it not be taken into account in construction that there is also a group of older people who may have to come back in the meantime? After an incident, the beds are not occupied, but then you will find a place there. You could do that in the new building, but you could of course do that at the nursing homes. I would like to comment on how you could also offer a solution to this problem by building. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u71	I understand that Mr Slootweg says that a number of things are important: e-health, home innovation, information exchange. But I am missing something in Mr Slootweg's speech. He said, with his action programme, the Minister is going to "give ass" the developments. I think those were the literal words. Then I miss the urgency in the story, looking at the bottlenecks that we are now detecting. The bottlenecks are so big that a lot of people can't get into the nursing home, not even with a care package 4. I will be interrupting on this later, because I would like to know what the developments are in that regard. But I'm actually missing the urgency. Does Mr Slootweg of the CDA share that things are just not going well at the moment? That support at home is still very often insufficient, isn't it? The waiting lists from the nursing homes are actually increasing. That is a very worrying development, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mrs Bergkamp touches on an important point. I think it is particularly important in this action programme to make it possible for people to stay home for longer. And in what way can we promote that? Mrs Bergkamp touches on another point. She says: all that is beautiful, but we also have the transition to the nursing home, in whatever form. I do not want to give a procedural answer to that, but I am waiting very much for the letter announced in December on what we are going to do about this waiting list problem. Would I have wanted that engraver? Yes, I tabled a motion with Mrs Ellemeet in which we stated that we would have liked to do so in September. I see that takes more time, but I expect a very good indication of how we are going to deal with this problem. I don't think that's too urgent? I really cannot see whether this is too little urgent, because first I want to know what plans are actually going to be made. What I don't feel like is that it's gonna be solved with some kind of quickie, when you might come to good structural solutions if you take a few months more time. I really prefer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u73	Finally, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u74	I understand that Mr Slootweg says he wants the facts, the developments and the reports. But Mr Slootweg is also making work visits, isn't he? Doesn't he also notice in practice that the system is being blocked and people have to stay home too long because there are waiting lists for the nursing homes? Isn't he also aware that there are really big problems when it comes to housing adjustments and cooperation between the municipality and the district nurse? We must ask the Minister to come up with solutions in the short term, regardless of the challenges, such as demographics, ageing populations and labour market shortages. Does Mr Slootweg agree with me that we really have an urgent situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u75	I think the urgency is very great, but the work visits do not give me a clear picture. I see too many differences for that. That is also why, when it comes to e-health, for example, I ask what the possibilities are for scaling up and standardisation. 'Cause I think they can help a lot. It would be different the moment I saw there was a problem everywhere. But I think the differences are so great now that I think there really can be a stroke. I'd like to bet on that: standardize, scale. There is no doubt that there is still a problem, but I would like to give priority to these things within the framework of this action programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u76	It would be nice if the alarm bells would go off on all our work visits. That would be the end; that is, of course, the last thing we want. I think it's bad enough that the figures speak for themselves. We hear that all hospitals have people who aren't supposed to be there, that we know from the figures that thousands of elderly people can't get to the nursing home, and that we know that a large part of the carers are falling over because they can't do their job anymore. Of course there are differences, but I think we can already conclude that things are not going well enough. I hear Mr Slootweg saying that we should not let a thousand flowers bloom. I totally agree with him, but does he agree with me that it is now time to see what the underlying problem is? We see, among other things, that we are dealing with three laws of care, which make a good approach extremely difficult for those vulnerable elderly people. Does Mr Slootweg agree with me that we should see what we can do about it in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr Slootweg is going to respond step by step to the many questions implicit in Mrs Ellemeet's speech. First of all, I think the question is: what, for example, is the issue of family care? The deeper part of the family care system is that is what I call the cultural change that we need to achieve. Sometimes it's hard to have a conversation about what you can ask someone else. I don't see any sense in that. I regret that, precisely because young people often say that they want to do something for their parents. I see a lot of good plans in this action plan, but I would like to see this cultural element added, because I think we need to talk about this now. The other structural problem, I think, is living. I, too, see the blockage of the hospitals. At the time when you're going to build it may be that you have to do it at a nursing home, at the time when there's going to be a new home-care location, or in some other way, I'm saying: please bear in mind that this is happening and that older people sometimes need to have an intermediate place before they can really go home. Those are the questions I just asked the Minister. In that sense, I don't believe I'm going any less deep. Let me put it this way: my great fear is that plan is stacked on plan, which makes it seem as if we are giving this more urgency, while I would rather have more focus, precisely on that deeper problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u78	Well, at least we agree on that: plan-on-plan is not a good idea. In fact, we may have too many plans. That is precisely my criticism of this programme and its implementation. Those programmes and plans are aimed at the frontrunners, but we know that in a very large part of the Netherlands it is still too much still standing still and that municipalities there are not in conversation with corporations and elderly organisations to see how they can deal with this housing issue or how they can work. I think that is exactly how we should look at the real problem: no more pilots where it already comes from, but precisely where it is quiet, take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u79	Then I think we'll get to the other point that I started with. Just because you see that the frontrunners are doing some good, my question is: how can you standardize and scale up? In that sense, I don't think our analysis of what needs to be done is very different from yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It sounds so good, "Longer at home." You can leave those kind of sounding titles to this minister of VWS. "Langer Home" of course we all understand. Ask an older person where he prefers to live and of course he says "home." But what if things don't work out at home? What if he doesn't walk out of his house for weeks or months, lonely? What if he's starting to become demented and demented? Of the reports to the police of people with confused behavior, up to 13% are those who are demented. There's the sad example of the lady who was taken off the street twice naked or the gentleman who was hypothermia at the bottom of the stairs because he didn't know what the alarm button around his neck was for. Many of my colleagues have already said: there are departments of hospitals where the elderly are just lying there that can't go anywhere. 14,000 people are currently on a waiting list for a nursing home. The nursing home is different now than it was a few years ago. You have to be bedridden for that now and need heavy nursing. Then there are 14,000 people who can't go there right now. Mr. Chairman. I listen to my colleagues very carefully. That's what's good about being one of the later speakers. No one's actually happy with the plans that are there. It's a mess in the margins. It's not a big deal. It's a lot of pages with a lot of words. They're smokescreens, too. Over the past few days, we've been buried in reports about living, you name it. But I have looked at a number of states, for example the most recent budget we received last week or the week before. I have them here: these kind of states. The Minister will send them to us in the budget, but I see no action whatsoever. In 2018, for example, there were 100,000 people with an indication "Protected living with intensive dementia care." In 2040 that's 197,000. With us, an alarm goes off that there will be an increase of almost 100%. Then where's the action? When will it be built? You can't give intensive dementia care at home. Those are people who need eyes on. You can't even leave them alone, let alone at home. So where are the actions to build? I don't see them. It is said: No, the corporations must do something; no, the regions must do something. Here's a meeting, there's a meeting. But this is what's coming at us. I don't see any beginnings of activity. As I said, I also hear it from my colleagues. I also hear it from the coalition parties. D66 says the system's jammed. Mr Segers of the Christian Union said, "I'm losing my touch." The VVD says: they are persistent bottlenecks. The CDA says: I have the fear that we will plan on a plan and the focus on the deeper problems will disappear. Mr. Chairman. I think this is one of the biggest challenges facing the cabinet. This minister needs to take action. I refer to page 13 of the most recent budget. What's that say? Care more or more in the home environment rather than in healthcare institutions: 50% more often in 2030 than today. So all the problems that we have here today are going to make the Minister 50% worse. That's impossible, isn't it? I'd say start building, come with care, come up with a plan and get the plan I have here off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u82	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr. Chairman. I was born and raised on the Veluwe. Throughout these Veluwe forests there are all kinds of country roads. Some of these paths are also accessible by car. But you have to be careful, because it can happen just like that, if you look around you at all the beautiful things that Veluwe nature has to offer, that your car threatens to run stuck in mud ponds, in deep pits or in the ever-closer shrubs. That image occurred to me when reading the first progress report of Langer Thuis. Mind you, if I go into that nature, I don't do it by car, I do it by bike or walking, before you think I always do. Mr. Chairman. It sounds so beautiful, it has been said by many colleagues, as long as possible at home in your own familiar environment. The Minister is right to try to put everything that goes well in the spotlight. Yet we, too, are getting more and more signals from the workplace that Langer Home is at risk of a shortage of home care workers, a decline in the number of carers and volunteers, a lack of suitable housing, an ageing population and the increasing complexity of the demand for care. My question is: how long does this minister keep that little car moving? An example. We heard from a volunteer organisation for palliative terminal care that they are regularly called by a home care organisation that simply does not get the roster around. Or maybe the volunteers could jump in. As far as we are concerned, that is an extremely undesirable situation. Does the Minister recognise the urgency of the shortage of palliative home care and does he also have national figures on how often care cannot be provided? Mr. Chairman. An underlying problem is often a lack of cooperation between health insurers, health offices, municipalities and healthcare providers. This was underlined yesterday in the report received From home to the nursing home. Different areas of care are often different worlds. Scots in finance are obstructing. And if we really want to change something, we need to be willing to step out of our systems. What does the Minister do to ensure that an integrated approach is led in all municipalities? And how does the Minister encourage the use of the hand-out for vulnerable elderly people at home? Longer living at home is more than an action programme. I also share what colleagues Ellemeet and Segers, and perhaps others, have meant, that the analysis is right that we should look beyond those action programmes; that we should look at what is really necessary. It is primarily a task for our society. But the question is whether this society is sufficiently aware of this. Because we see the number of carers and volunteers falling. Because of an ageing population, but also because we consider paid employment to be extremely important. This bears witness to the government's wish that carers should take over a significant part of home care and support. Both goals can be achieved only in a limited way and in our selfie society, unfortunately, social involvement is not as strong everywhere as you would like. My question to the Minister is: does he acknowledge that this is the Achilles heel of Langer Home? And also, how do we prevent initiatives around carers from falling as the pressure on municipal budgets increases? Is the Minister prepared to see if he can firmer recess care in municipal policy? Finally. I told you, I'm from the Veluwe. I still live there with great pleasure. I understand that it's also a bit fashionable here. The SGP doesn't always participate in fashion to invite the Minister to initiatives. In the 1990s, we also realized that it is no longer the case that parents build up a piece at the house and move in with the children. So then there were politicians of the RPF, the predecessor of Mr Segers' party, and of the SGP, who said: we must tackle this. They've started slowly to actually shape that entire life course you have since you're about to retire to the end of your life. I would therefore like to invite the Minister to take a look at that, because perhaps that will also help him to make that analysis: where is that ass, which is also discussed from the CDA, needed to fill those gaps that go wrong? So, Mr President, I will conclude with this. You understand, I take advantage of the opportunity once in a while when I'm raiding something, so here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u84	I'm gonna have to get used to what you just said as SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u85	What did I say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u86	I'm not gonna repeat it. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u87	I am a little triggered by Mr Stoffer's question when it comes to participation in the labour market. In my opinion, the Langer Home plan makes it very clear that employers need to be informed about providing more opportunities for family care. Isn't that a much more desirable form than, for that is what it will actually be, especially to get many women out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u88	Good question. I think you should do one, but don't let the other. We shouldn't close our eyes to this. You see more and more people entering the labour market almost completely or completely together. That just gives you less potential for volunteers. So I think you should do one thing and not leave the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u89	I'm surprised at this. I think this is a real step towards yesterday! I believe that employers and employees can make good agreements on this. That is much more desirable, in addition to community care and home care, than to say to an entire group: there is a care question at home, so sit at home. Anyway, if that's the view of the SGP...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u90	No, I didn't say that people had to sit at home. That's gotta be a choice. In the context of the portfolios that I represent every day, that of Social Affairs and Finance, I have a discussion with either the Minister or the Secretary of State, because tax policy in the Netherlands is aimed at getting more and more together on that labour market. You can find anything you want. I like it. But one of the consequences of this is that people have less time to do a piece of volunteering, works of mercy. I'd say let people make that choice themselves. Let us remove the tax incentives, but I suggest this in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u92	That'll help, I think. The second is that I agree with Mr Slootweg that we should also encourage consultation between employees and employers in this respect. But do one thing and I don't think I'm gonna let the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Stoffer. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-4.u94	I shall now suspend the sitting until 1.50 p.m. Then we have the arrangement and at 2 p.m. the Minister can go into the questions that were asked in the first period.
