ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the VAO Chrome-6 in Defence. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Belhaj of the D66 Group. She has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. I just started this debate a little faster, but that's probably because chromium-6 is a file that has been running for so long, it's hitting me too, and the debate was originally planned a little earlier. Mr. Chairman. I repeat my words. Since 2016 we have been debating the use of the toxic substance chromium-6, the harmful effects of which have been known since 1973. I welcome the current regime, which has been created partly by the influence of all defence spokesmen in the Chamber to make the regime even better. However, I will only be truly satisfied when the second RIVM study has been carried out and the evaluation of the current regime shows that it is being fairly worked out and carried out. Finally, I would like to say that it is crucial to include stakeholders in all proposals and arrangements. After all, it's about them. So talking to the union alone isn't enough for D66. I would ask the Secretary of State to take this into account so that the victims can also come to the table with the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that chromium-6 is a carcinogenic substance;]] [[Whereas the risk of unsafe situations resulting from working with the toxic chromium-6 is unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government, and specifically the Ministry of Defence, to actively stop working with chromium-6 containing paints as soon as possible, to accelerate the replacement process and certification process and to implement chromium-free paint systems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that chromium-6 is a carcinogenic substance subject to substitution requirements where technically feasible;]] [[noting that it is technically possible to apply chromium-6 free paint systems to military aviation systems;]] [[noting that in the balancing or replacing of chromium-6-containing paints, it is feasible and effective, it also involves financial and economic considerations;]] [[Whereas reducing the use of chromium-6 containing paints in military aviation systems is a top priority;]] [[calls on the Government, and specifically the Ministry of Defence, not to consider the financial and economic aspect within the Defence budget framework in the consideration or replacement of chromium-6,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-120]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u3	Mr. Chairman. Again, we're gonna see how the arrangement finally works out. I wish the Secretary of State and the officials every success in doing justice to these victims and giving them what they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u4	Thank you. Then Mrs Diks from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions and one brief remark, because I think this is an incredibly important subject. Mrs Belhaj has just indicated what we have done to people knowingly and knowingly. It is impossible for this to happen in a country like the Netherlands. I find it very miserable, Mr President, but as important as I think this subject is, I have to chair something at 5.30 p.m., so unfortunately I cannot wait for the answer. But the employee will of course hear the answer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the level of compensation in the Government's proposed compensation scheme for victims of chromium-6 exposure is not proportionate to the deliberate suffering of these victims by the Department of Defence;]] [[calls on the Government to substantially increase the amount of compensation in the chrome-6 exposure scheme and to cover this from the non-legally mandatory part of the investment article in the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u6	No matter how sympathetic I think this motion sounds, I thought the word "essentially": you have an amount in your head that you think is fair...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u7	...that Mrs. Diks then finds just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u8	Mr President, indeed:... that Mrs Diks then finds fair as a sum to be paid out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u9	It is, of course, incredibly miserable, because in the end there is no amount high enough. There's no amount of money that can compensate for the fact that working at the Department of Defense has given you a life-threatening illness that's gonna speed you up your death. On the other hand, we can, of course, talk about fees that somehow meet in them. Of course, that's what the Secretary of State is working on, I suppose. And I don't think there's a certain amount of money in that search. There is now a kind of basic amount that is paid to people. In civil proceedings, you can ask for an additional amount. That depends on the personal circumstances: the suffering that has been done to you, the consequences that are there for you. I really can't tell you from this place what amount would be eligible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u10	I would like to ask a follow-up question. I really understand what Mrs. Diks is saying. But things have been arranged now where you can see what everyone is entitled to. It may seem a little ugly when you say: I do not think it is enough, but I leave it to the Secretary of State to do so. What have we been doing with each other in the last three years? What have we been doing for the past four months? You now say: that €40,000 maximum and possibly another €40,000. No, I'm saying it wrong: then an individual compensation. If that is not enough, I think it is important to hear from you what you think is reasonable. Then I think I can ask you what you think is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u11	Well, I have other motions. I will probably answer your questions on this point. Because I have the feeling that this committee that is being set up is going to ensure that people are treated fairly. In my opinion, "justice" is also the word you yourself used in this connection. That's the point, of course. The damage we have done to these people must be dealt with fairly. And I think that the amounts now mentioned in the scheme are insufficient. That is why I have also used the word "material" in my motion, because I think it can be done better. But I do not mention any amount here, because I assume that the Secretary of State and her committee will eventually come up with sums that do people more justice. Mr President, I come to my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the municipality of Tilburg and the NS pay a standard amount for exposure, regardless of whether the victim has already become ill;]] [[Whereas staff exposed to chromium-6 suffers from serious diseases or the risk of developing these diseases for the rest of their lives, and that this already justifies some compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the compensation scheme for work with chromium-6 by granting a standard amount for exposure to chromium-6, irrespective of whether a disease has already emerged from this, and to cover this from the non-legally compulsory part of the investment article in the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u12	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to facilitate a committee to set up future occupational injury treatment, which should advise on national guidelines for the treatment of claims for exposure to chromium6;]] [[Whereas the people exposed to chromium-6 are entitled to rapid clarity, taking into account the sometimes serious and progressive diseases they suffer from through exposure, and that the government should therefore deal with this dossier with a high degree of urgency;]] [[calls on the Government to take the decision on the institution and the commission's mandate to facilitate future compensation in the case of occupational diseases at the shortest possible time and to enable this Commission to complete its work in a careful manner as soon as reasonably possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u13	I have a factual question for clarification because Mrs Diks will be gone shortly. You mean the committee that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is going to set up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u14	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u15	You don't mean the independent committee the Secretary of State is still working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u16	No, I am referring here to this committee, I think I have just said the term; it can be considered to facilitate the treatment of damage in the event of an occupational disease, I think, for a moment out of my mind. That's the committee I'm talking about. That is a committee of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but chromium-6 is the first case to be dealt with there. The method of handling has been done with the cases and parts put forward by FNV with regard to chromium-6, so there is a very strong link between these two committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u17	Thank you. Then there is Mr Kerstens of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u18	Mr. Chairman. There is a lot to say about the chrome-6 file, but let me just limit myself to the three motions I have, to stay a little bit within my time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the eligibility of a survivor's allowance under the chromium-6 benefit scheme is conditional upon the application being submitted by the (now deceased) Defence Officer alive;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to meet this requirement in the event of the death of the Defence Officer concerned prior to the entry into force of the benefit scheme (in 2018) or the prior coulance scheme (from 2015);]] [[Considering that the likelihood of the death of the defence personnel in contact with chromium-6 for the said dates is significant and it is not reasonable to exclude their survivors for the formal reasons set out above for a possible reimbursement on the basis of the coulance or benefit scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to waive this condition in respect of survivors of chromium-6 victims, so that they themselves can apply for compensation as provided for,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the chrome-6 benefit scheme by former employees of the Defence Department, who were not aware of this, often had to work with the harmful chromium-6 and other toxic substances for years, is assessed as totally inadequate;]] [[Whereas the very serious breach of the duty of care incumbent on Defence as an employer and the improved agreements recently made at Tilburg for victims of chromium-6 justify reconsidering the benefit scheme;]] [[Whereas, moreover, there are no legal obstacles to a better arrangement;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt, in the short term, a more appropriate regime for the long-term infringement of the duty of care incumbent on Defence as an employer and the suffering suffered by former employees concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Krol and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-125]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u19	And then the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a general scheme for victims of chromium-6 is being discussed;]] [[Whereas such calls may lead to a better (part-based) scheme than the chrome-6 benefit scheme of the Defence Department, since, in a recent damages scheme established in Tilburg, the fact of exposure in itself as a result of breach of the duty of care (also) results in compensation;]] [[calls on the Government, in view of the long-term violation of the duty of care of Defence in this regard, in the event of the establishment of such a general arrangement, to show generosity by (as Defence) taking over easily any better parts of such a scheme and adding it to the existing own benefit scheme;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u20	Mr. Chairman. The Defence workers of the POMS site, the place where American military equipment was stored and maintained, complained already in the 1970s about the consequences of the use of the toxic chromium-6. It has taken decades for them to be taken seriously. It took much longer before there was an investigation and even longer before a compensation scheme was put in place. The apologies are important, but it is very painful to see that, despite the good intentions, the steps taken by the Secretary of State and the improvements she has made to the existing regime following our debate are still inadequate and that a large part of the people are at risk of falling out of the trap of research and regulation. Now I know that this may be restored in the future, but I do not think it is fair and not enough, and I fear that many will not make it. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the injury compensation scheme for POMS workers is based on 100% proven causality between working with chromium-6 and a number of diseases because this scheme is based on demonstrableness;]] [[considers that POMS workers are wronged because very common diseases affecting people in the group fall outside the injury regime because the detection at present is not 100%;]] [[Considers that the condition of plausibility of common diseases among the POMS workers group does more justice to their situation;]] [[noting that all workers in the chrome-6 file in Tilburg are eligible for compensation for having been or may have been in contact with chromium-6;]] [[further considers that this unequal situation between Tilburg and POMS workers is unfair;]] [[calls on the Government to accept plausibility as a condition for the award of diseases by working with chromium-6 and thereby to increase the likelihood that a larger group of POMS workers will be eligible for compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas RIVM demonstrated in June 2018 that 11 diseases occurring in former staff of the POMS depots were caused by chromium-6;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Defence has drawn up a compensation scheme for personnel who have worked with chromium-6;]] [[noting that there is still considerable uncertainty as to the effect of other toxic substances worked in the POMS depots and that these substances have not yet been investigated;]] [[noting that the compensation scheme does not provide any relief for ex-workers who do not suffer from the 11 diseases identified;]] [[Whereas it is necessary for the Defence Department to take full responsibility for its negligence towards former POMS personnel because the abandonment of the duty of care for a large part of the staff has led to health damage;]] [[Furthermore, considering that an Air Force employee in Twente received compensation of €100,000 in 2014 for working with chromium-6;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a compensation fund to pay damages to victims of working with chromium-6 in POMS depots and to reserve an amount of €100,000 per person for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut, Mr Kerstens and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-128]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut, Mr Kerstens and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u22	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Krol of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u23	Mr. Chairman. New developments have been taking place since the general consultation on 7 November. There is now a plan of action; thank you. We will keep the Secretary of State's promise that she will inform the Chamber properly about the progress of implementing that plan. There are steps in the right direction on 50PLUS, but we are not yet there. 50PLUS remains committed to a regime which can in all respects contribute to at least alleviating the suffering caused to people who have had to work with chromium-6 in the past under unacceptable conditions. In doing so, my group continues to have incredibly great difficulty with the formal attitude of the Secretary of State when it comes to the position of next of kin. I am referring to the situations in which someone is not entitled to compensation because the deceased partner who has not applied for or has not been able to apply. Often the scheme was not there when the partner died. That is distressing and I am so disappointed by the fact that the Secretary of State keeps firm and firm to what, in her view, is legally possible for the Dutch law on compensation. The way the city of Tilburg has taken care of things, it has no message, but why doesn't the Secretary of State say that they want to explore all possibilities to help that group of relatives exhaustively, creatively and, above all, humanly? In addition to formal lawyers, will the Ministry of Defense work people who are willing and able to think out of the box? Furthermore, 50PLUS continues to insist on a generous definition of the diseases covered by the scheme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u24	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u25	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u26	Mr. President, you're faster than I am. I wasn't at my chair yet. Mr. Chairman. The MPs have just shared their concerns in their contributions. Mr Bosman and Mrs Bruins Slot did the same in the debate. These concerns relate to the past. The question is: what happened to our former employees and those who still work with us in part? But they also relate to the present, to the question of what we are doing now. All Members of Parliament have expressed their concerns about this. As I said, following the debate that we held in November, we looked at the wishes that have been expressed further, from the Chamber, but also in discussions with former POMS staff. We looked at questions like, "What else can we do in there?" and "are there any additional possibilities in the edges of the legislation that exists?" I briefed the Chamber on this in a letter. We have also had the debate on this with each other. I can see from the motions that a number of Members say: we think that this should be looked at again. Perhaps it is good to start with the present and to deal with the motions that are mainly on the scheme afterwards. Mrs Belhaj is mainly concerned with the question of how we deal with chromium-6. As I indicated at the end of December, Public Health is the tractor, the coordinator of all departments when it comes to working with or using chromium-6. But every department also has its role and responsibility in it. Social Affairs, of course, has it when it comes to the Labour Inspectorate and its policy side. I have also indicated that our starting point is that where this can be done, chromium-6 should always be replaced by an alternative that is not or less harmful to health. It is only permitted if an authorisation is granted by the European Commission under REACH legislation, which is European laws and regulations. That authorisation is granted and the Member States are also involved. It is therefore not the case that there is now a general ban on chromium-6 in Europe. There's basically a ban. That is true if there is a better technical alternative. If that is not there, then you can use it if you have obtained an authorisation from the European Commission. This applies to the whole of the Netherlands. That doesn't just apply to the DOD. This applies to the whole of the Netherlands. This is done through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, which also carries out this type of assessment when it comes to REACH legislation. I understand the spirit of Mrs Belhaj's motions. That's what I'm sharing. Mrs Belhaj says that chromium-6 should actually be eliminated as soon as possible. I have just indicated in my introduction that this is also the intention of Defence, but not only of Defence; it is actually the intention of all departments and also the implementing organisations that are included in it. We want to banish it. I have also indicated in a plan of approach chromium-6 how we do this, in aviation systems, but also in existing materials and in the influx of the new equipment. If I take Mrs Belhaj's motion literally, I have some reservations about it because there are things in it that I have difficulty with. As the motion has now been formulated, I should advise against it. So this is the first motion, which is in part No. 120. I started this because the first two motions are about the present and the future. The other motions are mainly about the regulation and the past. I have just indicated how we intend to deal with it, what we intend to do and how we have already informed the Chamber about it. Within European laws and regulations, the use of chromium-6 is still permitted, provided that an authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. We are trying to eliminate the use of it where it can. If there is a technical alternative, that is also the policy. But as Mrs Belhaj wrote it, it looks like we have to stop immediately. You can't do this. I would also like to point out that I have indicated this and that we also share the view that unsafe situations must be prevented, but that they can still occur. The inspection keeps us on top of that. Mrs Bruins Slot asked for it in the debate in the context of what came out of the inspection report of the Inspection SZW. I have indicated that there have been infringements. Some of them are about how people operate in the workplace and some of them are about the things that we have also written down in the plan of action, such as replacement, procedures and laying down them. The latter will be set up for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u27	That makes the motion in part no. 120 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u28	Yes, but I think I understand the spirit of Mrs Belhaj's motion. That's why I'm looking at her to find out how she means this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u29	I mean my motion as it stands. I almost got the impression that the Secretary of State had another motion in front of him, because I simply ask the government to stop actively working with chromium-6 as soon as possible. I am not talking at all about European legislation. I trust you with all that. We have had extensive debates on this. That's the base. That's what I'm asking. You also say: I have made a plan of action that states what the Defense Department wants. What part of this motion doesn't add up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u30	I've indicated we'll do it where we can. The question is, how am I supposed to interpret the motion? That's why I'm asking you to do that. I set out in the plan of action how I'm going to handle it. Can I read your motion in support of the plan of action? Or do you say no, apart from the plan of action, because I don't support that, do I want something else? Then we'll have another discussion with each other. That's why I'm asking for your explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u31	Then it's just as good to check it out. It is, of course, in support of the plan of action. But as a result of the fact that so much has happened, I thought it was a good idea as a Chamber to say once again that there is a desire to stop active as soon as possible. Your plan of approach indicates all kinds of measures that show that you want to stop actively as soon as possible when you can when it comes to chromium-6. I don't think you need to be so negative about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u32	Okay. Then I would like to say here with Mrs Belhaj that if the motion is in support of the plan of action and Mrs Belhaj does not say that anything needs to be changed, the motion supports policy. That's already written down. You state in the recitals that it is unacceptable, but I have indicated that there is always a chance of an unsafe situation. I have difficulty with that consideration in the sense that we want the same thing, but I cannot rule out that anything ever happens again. I'd like to give that to Mrs Belhaj. But if the motion supports the plan of action and the line as we expressed it in the letter we sent to you in December, the verdict is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u33	So the motion is judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u34	Yes. The same may be true of the second motion, the one on item No. 121. I also feel that Mrs Belhaj and I have the same intention. But perhaps the same applies to the interpretation of words. This also applies to safety, of course. I don't think there's any discussion about that either. We have explicitly stated in the plan of approach that when assessing and weighing up, the guiding principle is what it means for the occupational and environmental perspective. Financial and economic considerations can also be made, but in principle we always consider whether it is advisable to replace them from the point of view of the environment and the environment. If you have to remove all kinds of chrome-6-containing paint systems, the occupational risk can be even higher in relation to the profit that this brings. That's why we're looking at the replacement with that perspective and that look. I refer again to the plan of action, because I do not know whether Mrs Belhaj wants anything other than that stated in it. If that's not the case, then it's also policy support, but if she wants the DOD to look at it differently, then I'd like to hear that explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u35	I'd love to give you that clarity. The Secretary of State has tried in her plan of action in various ways to indicate how Defence intends to replace it. Then, at a certain point on page 10, in the fourth paragraph, it says: "Although it may be technically possible in the future to provide external air systems with a chromium-6 free paint system, it must be critically assessed whether this is reasonably feasible." That makes sense; you need to see if you can do it. You have indicated that there must also be certification. Then it says: "It should be considered whether replacement of chromium-6-containing paint systems by chromium-6-free alternatives on the outside is feasible and effective." That triggered me, because I thought, if there's an alternative, we're not going to see again whether we actually think it's too expensive or not. Then we say together: it is possible, the certification is there, the MLA has approved it all and everyone is on board? Then it can't be that someone says somewhere in an office: well, it's $10,000 more expensive if we do it, so let's not do it? In view of the fact that we have been working on this since 1973, I think it is decent not to take that financial and economic perspective into account, and that it is necessary to record it here, because otherwise the Chamber will not be able to control when such an assessment is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u36	The phrase behind it is therefore relevant to mention: "What profit this generates from an arbo- and environmental perspective is critical in this respect." That is the guiding principle, as I have just stated in my explanatory statement. That will be the guiding principle. Mrs Belhaj's example of €10,000 is not going to be discussed at all. It is exactly as you say: if the MLA is in agreement and the certification is complete, then it just happens. Otherwise, we're not gonna go down that road together. If you would like to underline that again with this motion, she will be judged Chamber, but if you say "don't look at the finances at all"... for that is what was said here. Let me take the example of not only the finances, but also the employability of the F-16. We don't all do it at once; we do it in groups of three to make sure that they are still usable. So we are looking at several aspects in this consideration. That is what this is trying to say: it is a broad spectrum. In principle, it is not said that 10% counts and that is not the case, or that is the way it gets into the basket. It's included. If Mrs Belhaj says it as she has just explained, then the motion gets judgment Chamber. But that's why I said I find the motion difficult to interpret. If it just says that the financial and economic perspective should no longer count, I would advise against it. That is why I ask Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u37	I mean what's in the motion. The Secretary of State refers to the second sentence. In itself, I understand that she says, "That's leading for us." But it doesn't say that. What it says is: "What profits this brings from an arbo- and environmental perspective is critical in this respect." Something that is critical can be equivalent to financial and economic interest. So that is not a higher priority. In fact, if something has a higher priority, it can be decided that priority 6, financial and economic interest, will ultimately lead to a certain decision-making process. I say, don't want that. If you say 'that's not going to happen at all', I would say: then this motion is simply something that supports your policy, but may be a little unclear here. Then we do not have to be afraid that someone will take a decision from a financial and economic point of view that will not lead to the chrome-free or chrome-poor operation. That's what matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u38	The term "critically important" is precisely to indicate that this is the guiding principle. I understand now that you're reading it differently. As I said earlier, we could also have used the term "the guiding principle," but the text has become as it has become. I cannot change that text anymore, because it has just become public. I have sent you this plan of action for nothing; that is precisely why I have done so. I have also promised Mrs Bruins Slot to return to the budget on progress. But I think this is a bit of a difficult discussion, because we are going to sit on words now. I told Mrs Belhaj how I read the motion. If Mrs Belhaj says that she interprets it differently than the plan of action, then the motion is dissuaded. If she thinks that it supports the plan of action, with the explanation I have given, namely that the environment and the environment are leading, then the motion will be judged by Chamber. Maybe Mrs. Belhaj can arrest her for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u39	Yes, but you now say "if..., if..." I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u40	Then it will be dissuaded, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u41	Then it'll be dissuaded. Very good. We've got ten more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u42	Otherwise there will be uncertainty about it. I tried to meet Mrs Belhaj. It's about the explanation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u43	We still have ten motions to make, don't we? If we're gonna do exegesis on every motion, then it's gonna be real night work, so I'd like to get a little pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u44	Yes, Mr President, I am going to try, but I also think that this is an important subject and I understand Mrs Belhaj's motions as well. Mrs Bruins Slot has also stressed the importance of working with chromium-6 now, because it is still a focus and we must ensure that this is done safely and that we try to eliminate it as soon as possible. The other motions are, in part, the same motions; they have the same meaning. We have also discussed this explicitly in general consultation. I would also like to say that I understand the motions, in view of the debates we have had with each other and also of the discussions that you and I have had with former employees of the POMS locations, as well as with the current staff. I have also indicated to you that everything in me would like me to be able to turn the switch back to 1973, but unfortunately that is not possible, and that I wish that there had been a call earlier and that defence had acted. That didn't happen. We were able to read all that in the RIVM report. I have indicated that we have tried to identify what we can do on the basis of a number of principles. Those principles also relate to the recommendations of the Joint Committee, which indicated: come to an arrangement that meets the recognition of the suffering of former employees and employees, which is based on the RIVM investigation and which is also based on the Dutch law on compensation. These have been the three principles on the basis of which the unions and the Defense Department have sat down at the table and went to see what would fit in terms of regulation if these three principles were guiding. We have not only done this; together with experts, injury attorneys and professors, we have done so in order to be advised, because in recent years there has not actually been a new arrangement that complies with these principles. We looked at the Asbestos scheme then, because it was a similar thing. It also had to do with health damage and a violation of employers' duty of care. The Asbestos scheme, which has been established by the Court, has thus been the guiding principle for its implementation. As far as chromium-6 is concerned, RIVM has indicated with very careful and long research when a disease could really be attributed to the use of, and also working with, chromium-6 and when it was not. I know there's a lot of discussion about that, especially if you're a former employee and if you're outside that list. I understand you'd have questions. I think it is therefore also important that RIVM has been asked to do an epidemiological study of RIVM in the debate in November and I am going to try to speak again to see if RIVM sees any differences in health status between workers who have worked at a POMS site and workers who have done similar work but not at a POMS site. That's wider than just chromium-6. With this, you could also respond to questions in terms of: we only looked at chromium-6, but did we not also work with other substances that could, for example, give certain diseases? This request has also been made to RIVM, which will provide an explanation for whether it is able to carry out such an investigation before the summer or in the summer. I think that's important. Another thing that is also done and which will also be ready around the summer is the list of diseases in the context of the ongoing research that RIVM is doing. RIVM will now also investigate the use of CARC and other locations outside the POMS locations. These are all matters that will result in the list of diseases or the scheme being amended accordingly if that is the case. So it's not a fixed list, so to speak. The list will be based on the new scientific insights provided by RIVM. But that is separate from the current regime. I understand the motions, too. After a broad introduction, I will pass the motions briefly. Mrs Karabulut, Mr Kerstens and Mr Krol have indicated that they believe that more needs to be done. I have indicated to you the basis for the arrangement. This has also been done on the basis of the Asbestos scheme. The multi-causality of the disease, which is a very nice word, ensures that this arrangement has been put in place in this way, because there is not always a one-on-one connection between diseases and chromium-6. That's what RIVM indicated. We have tried to create a generic regime for everyone. Of course, each individual can still file an individual claim. Mrs Karabulut indicated in one of her motions, and also mentioned that example, that tonne for an employee of Twente. That wasn't based on a generic scheme. That was based on the processing of an individual claim. Not only did it look at the material damage: what does that mean for your work ability, what can you no longer do because of your illness? It also looked at the intangible damage: what was done to you? So that was pain money. That trajectory is always open. In this respect, I have also indicated to you how we intend to accommodate former workers in order to simplify this process. Members of parliament, like Mr Bosman and Mrs Bruins Slot, have also asked: can you also ensure that it is fast and that there is sufficient capacity so that people who have filed a claim do not have to wait long? I'll share that. A comparison has also been made with Tilburg. I indicated to you in the debate, just as the Secretary of State for Social Affairs did, that we do not have an opinion on the regulation of Tilburg. It's Tilburg's. The municipality of Tilburg has said: this is a unique arrangement, with a unique character, also in terms of the circumstances. That was their starting point. We have indicated to you the basic principles we have used. This is in line with the Dutch compensation law, in line with similar schemes and based on the RIVM investigation. In this respect, causality is the starting point. On this basis, together with the trade unions, I have come to this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u45	I'm not going to repeat the debate last time. I have indicated that, in my view, there is no obstacle to a better settlement. All it takes is for you to want it. The Secretary of State just referred to Tilburg, where they indicated: this is a unique situation and it deserves a unique arrangement. I ask the Secretary of State whether she does not agree that the situation in the defence sector is actually much more unique, given how long the duty of care has been violated and how the journey is thereafter. To this day, people receive letters addressed to next of kin, while they are still very much alive, though, not very alive, because they are seriously ill and open the envelope. It is very difficult to observe that where one says that one simply takes responsibility for saying that 'this is a unique situation and that deserves a unique arrangement', there are elements in that scheme that are simply better than the one which the Secretary of State has been defending for quite some time now. That's acid for the victims, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u46	No financial compensation scheme can cope with the pain and suffering. If you've lost someone or if you're sick, then no arrangement will be enough. That's what we see in Tilburg. We have looked together with the trade unions to see which of the arrangements within the government we have and which we have established in the past with you in this Chamber fit and what is most appropriate to it. At that time, we opted for the asbestos regime. In addition, there must be a link between the disease and "working with," with the place where you worked. You're saying you want to get rid of that. I have indicated to you that we will not abandon this, because we have based ourselves on the Dutch law on compensation. If I were to step away from that within the government, it would have a great effect, not only for the defence industry but also for all employers. I have indicated to you, however, that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs has done so, as a result of this, and also in response to the FNV call that has been made, we are looking at whether we cannot reach national guidelines, not only for Defence and other state-owned employers, but also for municipalities and other parties, the ordinary employers, and for a faster claim handling, should that be the case. That trajectory's running. GroenLinks also asked a question about this: can't it go faster? I told you: if the committee has made its statements, then the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is responsible, so it also sets up the committee and has to speed it up. But I have indicated to you: this is the arrangement as it is now. I am going to see what comes out of the consultation between Social Affairs and all the partners on whether we should not come up with other national guidelines as regards our legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u47	I was actually asking whether the Secretary of State did not find it hard for a formalist attitude to... I do not think it is at all a law of Meden and Persians that what was agreed at asbestos should be automatically guiding what is agreed here. It is also not a law of Meden and Persians that if you agree to something unique here for a unique situation that is unique when you look at the duration of the exposure and how long the employer, in this case Defence, has violated his duty of care that then all employers in the Netherlands are bound by it. I ask the Secretary of State once again: does she simply not find it hard for people to be the victims of what I call a very formalist attitude, which does not do justice to the unique situation we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u48	I gave you the answer. I have indicated to you that no amount will be sufficient when it comes to the suffering that has been caused. I have also indicated to you what we intend to do about it. You yourself state that you want to come to a different arrangement. That's okay, of course. But I have indicated to you on the basis of which the unions and Defense have looked at how they could come to an arrangement, based on the RIVM investigation and within the framework of Dutch law on compensation. If you do not think that the Dutch right to compensation and those frameworks are sufficient, then we have a different debate with each other, because that also goes wider and then we have to look at it with each other. But I've been in there looking at what's possible, along with the unions. I have been advised by injury experts, but also by professors in this area, to see how we can put the maximum in this scheme within the limits of the applicable frameworks and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u49	I would very much like to move on to the motions, but first of all, Mrs Karabulut, who has one more question. No, Mr. Kerstens, I've heard you twice and we're really doing interruptions in two. I'd like to speed up a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u50	But I had two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u51	How about we do that later on in the motions then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u52	Then I'll come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u53	Mrs Karabulut, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u54	It is a bit annoying that the Secretary of State is increasingly hiding behind formal reasons, such as the right to prevent her from drawing up a more generous arrangement or that the trade unions have decided to do so. It is true what the Secretary of State says: with no amount of money it can take away the pain and suffering of the victims. But the Secretary of State, if she has the political will, would be able to meet the victims. After all, it is aware that a large proportion of them are outside the current regime because it is very scary. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it should be a just settlement? Does she agree that all chrome-6 victims in the Defense Department are just entitled to that after decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u55	I think we're in agreement on what happened in DOD. That's what the RIVM report is crystal clear about. Mistakes were made there. I don't blame anyone, and I don't say who or what. We are really talking about the unions and the Defense Department, and I am trying to find a just settlement based on the RIVM investigation and the Dutch right to compensation. You're saying you don't think that's enough. That's okay, of course. But all due respect and conscience has been given to all parties to see how, on the basis of the laws and regulations that exist, we can come to an arrangement based on the RIVM investigation, which can, with some recognition, deal with the suffering that has been suffered. We are aware that the amount mentioned will probably never be sufficient. We also realize that this is not something that is done with this, because it is precisely that you want to regulate aftercare in a good way, but also that you can regulate the individual claim path that is still open, in a good way. These are components that are also part of the scheme and the concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u56	If the Secretary of State is serious, and I want to believe that she wants a fair settlement for all victims, then she cannot ignore the fact that the current regime is not or is not sufficient. A lot of people who have a lot of pain, suffering and illness just don't understand this. If money is not the problem, if the staff comes first, if the duty of care has indeed been violated and if excuses are in order, then there must be a fair settlement. We have provided alternatives to this. The least the Secretary of State could do is investigate them seriously and no longer hide behind all kinds of formalities, including the union or the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u57	I am bound by the legislation, which you establish with each other. In there, I look at what's possible with each other. We did this together with the unions. I'm not hiding at all. It is precisely in good consultation with the trade unions that we have looked at this. We've been advised what can be done. I have also indicated to you that we are expanding the scheme together with the unions, if the RIVM study shows that there is more evidence that there are other diseases involved. I have also indicated that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs has not said in vain that she wants to set up a committee. I see that this is a broader problem. The whole government sees that. We are also getting signals from other industries and need to see what they mean. We want clarity. On the contrary, we want it to be clear at the front which directives and guidelines must be complied with. That is not, therefore, a form of hiding, but of ensuring that there is a clear policy established by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u58	All right, let's get to the motions. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u59	Yes, Mr President, I shall move on to the motions, first of all the motion by Mrs Diks and Mr Kerstens. Mrs. Diks apologized. In my introduction, I have already dealt with the way I see it. That's why I advise against this motion. So that's the motion in part No. 122. I'll mention the numbers, Mr. Chairman. For the motion in part No. 123 is the same. I have already mentioned the reasons behind this and how we deal with it in the light of the situation in Tilburg. We are taking this on a wider scale and also looking at the wider committee to see if other national guidelines will emerge from it. I'll process it in the Defense Regulations. So the motion in part No. 123 in this way I advise against. Then the motion to part No. 124 by Mrs Diks, on the Committee on Social Affairs, which facilitates the future treatment of occupational diseases. That's a committee with a tough name. I understand the intention of the motion, but you really need to be with my colleague from Social Affairs for this. I therefore ask GroenLinks to hold the motion. I look at the policy officer for that, but he can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u60	The policy officer stays seated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u61	I think my call is clear. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u62	But then the motion is in part no. 124 dissuade. Then it's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u63	I support the intention to speed things up, but only the Secretary of State for Social Affairs can give the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u64	A brief suggestion. Can we not get a letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment about this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u65	I'll pass the request on to her. I'll ask her to do that. I think she already promised this in her letter announcing this, but I'm going after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u66	The motion just continues to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u67	But we share the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u68	Then the motion to part No. 125.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u69	For the motion in part No. 125 also applies: dissuade. I understand the emotion behind this motion. We discussed this with each other in the debate. I also understand the intention of the proposers. I am going to give you a legal answer, not because I want to do so, but because I want to see what can be done about the next of kin within the framework we have established in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u70	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u71	Since the Secretary of State is starting for the umpteenth time with the legal argument not to change the arrangement, I would like to call on the Secretary of State to write down for us what legal impediment there is. Then we can take the initiative ourselves to change those rules. Is a letter possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u72	In the letter of 5 March I do not know the exact date, but in any case earlier this period I have already explained on the basis of which I am doing so. In the context of pain money, I indicated that the Affection Damage Act entered into force on 1 January 2019. The Legislator............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You say it's a legal answer. Yes, because I am also supposed to be on your behalf to look at the laws and rules that you have adopted together with your predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u73	That wasn't poured into concrete. Afterwards, non-life insurance schemes have been drawn up. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether, if the Secretary of State and also a majority of the Chamber so wished, it is possible to create a victim fund on other conditions, with flexible conditions. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u74	I have indicated that the Ministry of Social Affairs is looking at a national guideline. Your question focuses on the next of kin. I have indicated which laws and regulations apply. I explained that in the letter of the Chamber. I have also indicated that, if there is a situation included in the benefit scheme, survivors can benefit from that benefit scheme. If these conditions are met, it does not matter when the man or woman, the partner of the person concerned, has died. The same goes for an individual claim, so that doesn't stand in the way. There are conditions under which survivors can actually claim. If you say in general terms that you want to extend the legislation when it comes to the Affection Damage Act, you have just adopted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u75	So the motion in part No. 125 is not recommended. We'll do the interruptions in two, Mrs. Karabulut. I want to go to the Christmas motion on piece number one. 126 go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u76	It has the same effect as previous motions, such as the Diks/Kerstens motion in part No. 122 I don't know by heart which other ones. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u77	This also applies to the Christmas motion in part No. 127, if you do it in one breath?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u78	I'm gonna go check it out. Yes, because I have indicated that the Committee on Social Affairs is looking at this, so it is also not recommended. I see Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u79	Very good. I can see that, too. Shall I give him the floor? The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u80	I was allowed to come back again. I do so on the basis of the legal reasoning of the Secretary of State. But before that: it indicates that there is no money that can undo the suffering that has been done to people. That is true, regardless of the fact that many victims experience the money that is now being made available as a tip. There is also something like the way in which the Defense Department operates and the way in which you make and defend that arrangement. I hope the Secretary of State will see that this also plays a role in how people react to how Defence has dealt with that suffering. And then there's the legal. I'm sure the Secretary of State knows the concept of contract freedom. It is not, of course, the case that any legal framework, and certainly not the legal framework, forbidding the DOD from being a better, more decent employer than has been shown in this file so far. No one can appoint me the article of law, nor can the Secretary of State, which states that she should not do what is appropriate for a good employer and that she should not use the freedom of contract to agree on anything other than what has been agreed now. The D.O.D. doesn't want it. Then say that and don't say that the law doesn't allow it, because it is allowed on the basis of freedom of contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u81	I have also spoken with former employees, employees and next of kin. I've organized walk-in markets and also individual conversations. I have these conversations, I see that suffering and I also see the question they have: how is that actually legal and why can things be done and not? That is the way I would like to stay in conversation with all former employees, but also with current employees; looking at what can be done. That is the starting point, because we believe that we also have that obligation, especially as a former employer or as a current employer. I'm gonna keep making myself hard for that. That is what I do with the unions when it comes to the joint committee, because that is what drives us when it comes to this dossier. We are looking at what is possible, but Mr Kerstens is asking for the generic regulation and I must also give an answer based on it. I have indicated that we are also looking at individual cases, but the regulation on which you submit all your motions is a generic one, which applies to everyone at once or not. I have indicated that it is precisely in an individual trajectory that we look at the situation of the individual and what that means when it comes to material damage. Material damage is about your ability to work and such. Immaterial damage is about the pain money. Then we look at the individual case. The legislation we have now adopted is subject to certain restrictions on how we want to deal with a generic regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u82	Finalizing, Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u83	Finally, because the Secretary of State and I are not going to agree on this. In my opinion, there is also freedom of contract with two contracting parties, the trade unions on the one hand and the employer, Defence, on the other hand, who could have agreed something else. That's what the parties in Tilburg did. My second interruption concerns the last motion, which the Secretary of State indicated is with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. The Secretary of State is looking at me like this: I haven't said anything about that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u84	The final motion, by Mrs Karabulut and yourself, is about a compensation fund. But you just mentioned GroenLinks' motion. That's why I looked at you like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u85	There is talk of a general arrangement. It's agreed by people other than the Secretary of State and I. In the motion I referred to, I ask the Secretary of State to be generous and not to dimme about it when the general rule is in place. No, just take over the better elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u86	That's the motion in part No. 127.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u87	It may be that the Secretary of State is now due to that motion, but I have given some additional information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u88	No, she's already advised against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u89	Yeah, I didn't advise them, Mr. Chairman. I have spoken about the report of the Committee on Social Affairs, which should be set up as soon as possible. If there are elements that are also relevant to the defence sector and therefore require adjustments to the regime, I will of course do so in consultation with the unions. I cannot change the arrangement unilaterally, because both sides have agreed to it. That is a commitment which Mr Kerstens absolutely has. That's what I indicated in the letter. But the motion as it is, I have advised against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u90	Very good. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 128.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u91	The motion in part No. 128 by Mrs Karabulut, Mr Kerstens and Mr Krol. I understand the suggestion made by Mrs Karabulut in her motion, but I indicated in the debate that RIVM is doing a scientific research. RIVM checks whether or not there is causality. The scheme is based on that causality. We follow the scientific research of the RIVM. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The RIVM has indicated in which cases, in which functions and in which signs there is a causality. That was the basis of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u92	That was clear to me. On the contrary, the motion calls for a different category, so that more people can make use of the scheme. You know, the people first, the victims first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u93	I understand your call, but I have indicated to you the basis for the settlement. This is done on the basis of the scientific research of the RIVM and the causality that is included in it. This principle remains the basis of the scheme. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u94	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u95	Once again, I note that the Secretary of State refuses to amend the scheme in such a way that many victims can be compensated and benefit from the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u96	I have indicated to you that I am absolutely prepared to look at the scheme together with the trade unions. If there is a new RIVM investigation that shows that there is cause for it and if other cases arise from the investigation of the Committee on Social Affairs, the regulation will have to be adapted accordingly. But I have also indicated to you that I want to wait and see the results and that this is the arrangement at the moment. The RIVM is trying to make some things clear to you, to me and to all former employees in the epidemiological investigation. I really hope this is possible. Secondly, we need to see if there is scientific evidence to expand the list of diseases. The third aspect is the committee set up by Social Affairs. These are the three elements which could lead to the adjustment of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u97	Then the motion to part No. 129.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u98	I took up this motion in my general introduction. I told you that people will also have to meet the conditions with a fund. The example given by Mrs Karabulut in her motion has been a claim with an individual trajectory. That is always open to everyone, as I have indicated. But as the motion is now being proposed, I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u99	Thank you. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-31.u100	Thank you to the Secretary of State for her presence. We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I shall suspend until 7.10 p.m. and then we will have the debate on the results of the JOB monitor and admission policy in the MBO.
