ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Medical Devices Act. Once again, a warm welcome to the Minister and to the fellow spokesmen. First, I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP. Before he starts: let's see how there are interruptions, where I would like to use as a rule that we do these interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u2	I wouldn't agree to that in advance. I'd like to make a commitment to doing that. But if you say in advance that this can be done in duplicate, Members will naturally give half-hearted answers. Then they know: well, Mrs. Agema only gets the floor twice...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u3	I thought "I'm starting this day constructively," because I'm not giving you a maximum of interruptions. I thought you'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u4	It's a legal procedure. It's not an emergency debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u5	That's why I'm giving all the space to ask all the questions. But we also have a certain time schedule to take into account, so I would urge you to do it in two. If it doesn't work out in two, then at certain moments I may still be easy to give you space for a third time. But let's make an effort to do it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr President, if you have a good answer, you usually only need one question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u7	See, that's exactly what I want to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u8	...but if you don't, it'll be two or three or four.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u9	We're gonna see. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, I received this book. It's called The silicone leak and it's about the controversy surrounding breast implants. One of the quotes is from Jacqueline Roes, a woman who has been given silicone breast implants with very nasty consequences. She writes in that book: "I think the silicone is going to win over me." Her example is one of the many thousands of examples of women who have had problems with breast implants, but also in broad terms of all other patients who have had major problems with implants. With those people in mind, I would like to have this debate on the Medical Devices Act. I would also like to call on all Members of Parliament and the Minister to finally come up with legislation that strengthens the position of patients, makes it safer, but also allows patients to be helped properly and to be compensated if things go wrong, if they need to, and if they want to get justice. In any case, that is the background to which I wish to have this debate and this legal process. We're talking about the Medical Devices Act. What is striking is that there are major problems in ensuring the operation and safety of particularly high-risk implants. The position of the patients experiencing the side effects is not enviable. On the one hand, you have the big money in which safety has to compete with the financial gain of the implant manufacturers. In order to curb these financial interests, we need to do something about the admission of tools. The authorisation of these funds should be independent and without financial gain in relation to the SP. Unfortunately, it's taken care of differently. That is why once again there is a lack of effective supervision on the other hand. Also, the patient's position should be strengthened with that element I have begun. Another important point is that independent research should be carried out into the effects of implants. In the many letters and reactions we have received from patients, the question very often arises as to how a particular product is still on the market. This brings us to the task of doing good research on, for example, the pelvic floor mats, i.e., a well-known example, to see if their use is still acceptable in a number of treatments. The PIP scandal. The implants from 2012 are still fresh in our collective memory. Hundreds of thousands of women were treated with breast implants produced by a criminal at the time. Leaky silicone with gel for industrial use caused serious diseases and sometimes even death. Health regulations were not respected and people's lives were played with. It was a wake-up call for Europe. The lack of supervision of the billions industry had to be improved. It's been negotiated for years. The Netherlands was a self-explained frontrunner here. Because of the European internal market, everything had to be brought into line with the other EU Member States. What has emerged from this is that we are used to Europe being a watery compromise. The proposal before us is a kneel to industry and the financial interests involved in the implants. While this Chamber was conducting a written consultation with the Minister, Radar and Trouw came out with a worldwide investigation: the Implant Files. One implant after the other turned out to have all kinds of unforeseen dangers. Take the so-called vaginal mesh implants or pelvic floor mats from, for example, Johnson & Johnson who cause all kinds of pain in the vaginal zone and turn women's lives upside down forever. I also mention Essure's sterilization springs from Bayer manufacturer, which caused dental problems, hair loss, skin allergies and sometimes character change, which led to the nasty situation that one of the specialists who was a great supporter and would like to place them, is now in the process of removing the feathers from all those women with serious complaints, and the soluble stent of manufacturer Abbott for dotted patients, who subsequently were at increased risk of heart attack or thrombosis. And I can go on like this for a while. That is an intensely sad story about how industry's interests and government retreat destroy people's lives. All the more regrettable, therefore, is the legislative proposal before us. Big ambitions don't sound in it; on the contrary. Following the media coverage and the new information on global scandals, the government has made it necessary to specify in the letter of amendment that the Minister has no responsibility for the conformity assessment bodies, the so-called notified bodies, which allow implants to enter the market. Let there be no misunderstanding, the Minister must have thought that there are many problems, but please don't knock on my door. Instead of taking responsibility, he leaves it to an industry where more profit is made. You will hear well: more profit is made than in the pharmaceutical industry. The Minister lets industry get away with everything. The Health and Youth Inspectorate supervises notified bodies whose task is to assess whether implants can be admitted to the market. However, the Minister has not yet chosen to allow medical devices to be authorised under the same procedure as medicinal products before giving access to the market. Why does the inspection in its supervision of notified bodies, and in particular the arm responsible for the market authorisation of high-risk medical devices, not impose the same requirements as apply to the Medicines Review College? We have a European market and a European team that supervises the notified bodies. So why does the inspection not seek, in cooperation with the European Commission and other European inspections, to impose stricter requirements on the conditions of market admission? Another point. Can the Minister assure us that all research results will be made public? Because what about the reports that authorities in the EU sometimes keep secret reports on notifications? The Minister mentions as one of the reasons for the confidentiality of these reports that it concerns business sensitive information. How is this possible if it contains vital information for patients? Does the Minister agree with me that the argument of business sensitive information does not apply in a matter of public interest? Sometimes it's even a matter of life and death. Can the Minister assure us that the reports of adverse reactions and calamities will be carefully recorded and accessible to both doctors and patients? How independent of industry is EUDAMED, the European database? I'd like an explanation of that. Can the Minister guarantee that patients no longer have unsafe equipment placed in their bodies? We are talking here about implants that sometimes spend life in people's bodies, weird equipment that the body is not used to and wants to reject. The effect has been tested so minimally in a number of cases that patients often serve as guinea pigs, while medicines are subjected to much more stringent assessment. With a drug you can stop, but removing an implant is a lot more complicated. Patients with high-risk implants need treatments that are not reimbursed. Is this for their own account, when, if they had known the dangers, they would never have trusted the doctor to place it? And to think, in many cases, it is not even a question of medical care. I am thinking here of cosmetic surgery. Patients are often poorly treated and supervised and cosmetic surgery is often done in private clinics. There lives a "you ask us to turn" mentality. The placement of prostheses is not always sensible or necessary. So my question to the Minister is: who pays for the removal of these sometimes dangerous implants? In this context, I would also like to consider breast implants that can cause a rare form of lymph node cancer. These implants are placed for both medical and non-medical reasons. In recent weeks it has been known that the dangers are even greater than expected. Both the textured raw and smooth implants cause problems. In France, the implants are now banned. Our minister hasn't gone that far. RIVM will first study the evidence of the French. Last Monday's broadcast of Radar stated that the French ban was based on research by the RIVM. That's right, that's how I'm asking the Minister. And if so, why are the research results shocking enough for the French to announce a ban, but isn't that happening in the Netherlands? Again, who pays for the removal of these implants? Now this is only reimbursed if there is a medical need, but many women have been worried by the reports about the dangers, even though they have no or no complaints yet. Is it not very cynical that these women are actually being told: we have to wait until the risk of cancer is significantly increased and only then can we proceed with the removal of the implants? Because women didn't know enough about the risks when they had the implants placed. They have not been sufficiently informed and treated with harmful products. What prevents the Minister from saying: the information we now have on the risks means a medical necessity for any woman who wants her breast implants removed? These women trusted their doctor, but on second thought, perhaps they shouldn't have. I'm on Section 6:77 of the Civil Code. Isn't that article also applicable to medical professionals? This article states that if an unsuitable product is used, the debtor, i.e. the person using the product, is liable for it. Outside the medical world, this article is consistently applied. A contractor who uses unsuitable material in a renovation, resulting in damage, shall be liable for this. However, damaged patients who have failing implants in their body must themselves bear the legal burden to prove that the device is unsuitable. Why, so I ask the Minister, do we not put this burden on doctors and hospitals, which are much better able to demonstrate this? According to the law, that would also make much more sense. By establishing this once and for all, we relieve thousands of patients of the burden of having to fight and engage in a legal battle, in addition to the physical damage they have already suffered, while seeking justice for the suffering they suffer. The amendment I have tabled on this matter, or it is being tabled, I do not know if it is already there, and it is actually a double-edged sword. If doctors are held liable for the products they use, they will also think twice before going into business with a device manufacturer, whose products they shamelessly promote among their patients and on social media for containers of money, as we have seen in the examples of Follow the Money. The current legislation offers too many loopholes to allow such practices to continue. This amendment is a means that we can use to limit this conflict of interest. In addition, I have also tabled an amendment banning individual favours from device manufacturers for doctors and other aid workers. As far as SP is concerned, doctors should not conclude individual consultancy contracts with manufacturers, as this may lead to conflicts of interest, allowing personal financial interests to play a part in the choice of an implant. By prohibiting individual favours, doctors themselves from entering into lucrative and secret agreements with the implant industry and being unduly influenced by manufacturers. This also promotes compliance with the Code of Conduct on Medical Devices, and puts the patient's health interests first. And that must, of course, be the starting point for action. That's it in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. Mr Rutte has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u12	This was a clear statement by Mr Van Gerven, also from a clear point of view. He also started with the risks for patients and said that we need to have much more attention. I will return to the part of the macrotextured breast implants, which is now so much to be done about. These are breast implants used especially in breast reconstruction, breast repair, in women who have undergone oncological treatment. There are risks to that. We know that, and that's shared. There is an increased risk of a specific form of lymph node cancer, a 1 in 7,000 risk in women over 75 years of age. I hear from women who are in this situation: that is also shared fairly with me, and now, just before I can finally go through that operation, I am confronted with these implants being removed from the market. Now my question to Mr Van Gerven is the following. If a patient knows what risks there are, such as, for example, drug use risks if we don't know the side effects, and together with the doctor decides "I want this," should it be possible in this case? Or do you say, no, I think we should ban these implants anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u13	Two weeks ago, I tabled a motion similar to what Mr Rutte has just said. I do believe that these implants should not be used. I am not alone in this; I am mainly based on the research and opinion of Cohen Tervaert, one of the experts in this field. There are alternatives. There is a discussion about whether or not you should take an implant for non-medical reasons, but then you enter into people's privacy. I'll stay out of that. But when that happens, of course you have to look at the most safe product. Silicone preparations have been under discussion since the 1960s. So that debate has been going on for a long time. And there are implants without silicone content. They'd be my preference if a woman wanted to get an implant after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u14	In any case, Mr Van Gerven is very clear about how he weighs and what he thinks. Yet it remains complicated, because there will always be risks. Somewhere there's a limit where you say those risks are unacceptable. Then a product must come from the market. But sometimes you have a risk, but you want to consider it because the alternatives are not attractive. In this case, as I hear, the alternative is an implant with a high chance of embedding, which means that a woman who has already undergone a complicated oncological treatment and has lost her breasts to some extent, is definitely in danger of losing her breasts. That too is not an attractive alternative. If that is the weighting, does Mr Van Gerven maintain his view that, in such a case too, you should always ban it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u15	What I'm given from medical science is a discussion. It's not unanimous. Let's be clear about that. Otherwise, there might have been intervention earlier. But let's take the precautionary principle and look at the reported side effects. Most of it concerns silicone prostheses. They are also most commonly used, but most of the side effects are reported. So if you then take the precautionary principle and know that there are alternatives, which I understand are less harmful and give less side effects, then I would prefer to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you. Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about the law to ensure that people can be sure that the tools and implants they are prescribed are really safe. In this context, I would first like to ask a question in relation to the population survey on breast cancer. Of course, this has to do with the implants, which Mr Van Gerven also spoke about. Then I'll focus on the Medical Devices Act. I will use many English words, I say in advance, and sometimes I should use some technical terms, but that is because it is our responsibility to really fill up the Minister's proposal and the European proposal. Industry had the opportunity to do so a long time ago. Now it is our turn, our responsibility to zoom in very precisely on what is and what is not right about what is now ahead. My touchstone is patient safety. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the directive on secondary findings in the population survey on breast cancer. The Minister knows that I have asked a number of written questions about this, but because of the urgency of the problem, I would also like to ask him today: is a warning now sent to the general practitioner if the picture in a population survey shows that an implant is wearing or leaking? Has this directive already been amended by RIVM? If that's not the case yet, when will that happen? Again, there's a hurry. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, we also discussed with the Minister the medical need in relation to the removal of breast implants that are now banned in France and, more generally, implants that patients are concerned about because they hear reports of potential risks. The Minister specifically said yesterday about the removal of breast implants, if women are concerned about this, that the medical necessity of this is determined in the conversation between the individual doctor and the individual patient. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to call on doctors to interpret the directives as they currently apply, and to take patients' concerns seriously in the light of reported side effects. The doctors should therefore look at the directive in this respect. From my position as a representative of the people, I would like to make this appeal to doctors from this place. Take women's concerns seriously. There are many reported side effects. Breast implants start sweating, leaking and tearing, with all the consequences. Again, my call to doctors: listen to the patients and take their concerns seriously. If they make a request to have the implants removed, see that as a medical necessity. Mr. Chairman. Then I zoom in on the Medical Devices Act. This has been discussed in Europe for five years. As I said, the industry has been able to exert considerable influence on this. That means that we have to look at the final result extra critically. We know that this industry has exercised that influence because a large research collective of journalists has started to work. They have presented us the Implant Files. In the Netherlands Trouw and Radar played an important role in this. I would like to quote our southern neighbours, the Belgian media, on this, in order to have a fresh look at the influence of the implant industry. I quote: 'The powerful implant industry has played an important role in shaping the policy of the European Commission and the European Parliament on medical devices. The hope of a fundamental entanglement".... that is a Flemish word, a beautiful word; it stands for further strengthening, for making stricter............................................................................................................................................... However, experts believe that Europe urgently needs stricter rules." "Nood has" means: great urgency to tighten those rules. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. My underlying question, of course, is: do we respond to this urgent need for entanglement? How is it possible in the United States to complain that it is so much easier and faster to market a tool in Europe? In the United States, the FDA monitors all side effects and incidents on devices. Everything can also be found in a public database. Surely that should also be possible in Europe? The question is whether the new system also regulates this. That's my simple first question to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The success of the new European policy depends on: one, the traceability of all implants in the European Union, two, the disclosure of all data on incidents, side effects and emergencies, so that action can be taken in good time, three, that there will be a central overview of all implants in the EU, and four, that all research data, including the less positive, will be reported. For this purpose, the European database EUDAMED is available. It's been mandatory since 2011. But so far, so 2019, there is nothing functional and so we haven't made any progress. What makes the Minister think that EUDAMED will soon be final and unambiguous? Mr. Chairman. The regulation is still very unclear on a number of points. Clinical evidence for implants should be sufficient, "sufficient." But what is "efficient"? Who decides? The industry? Or are independent scientists involved in this? There will be different reading modules, different access functions in EUDAMED. In other words, not everyone can see everything. I believe that everyone, doctors, patients, we here, the minister, should be able to take all the information. But, according to the regulation, doctors are not an actor. They fall under the heading "public'. That means they only have limited reading functions in that database. We still don't know what to see for who. Does the Minister agree with me that all information should be public and accessible to all? I'd like a response. The same applies to incidents. Are incident reports accessible to the public, including doctors? It doesn't look like it. Article 92.3 refers to "appropriate levels of access." What's "appropriate"? In my view, 'appropriate' is that everyone must have all the information available. "Appropriate" is not that only a select group, for example manufacturers, can see the information. Safety warnings, known in the jargon as "field safety notices," are visible to the public. But that is already the case. So that's just not a profit. Moreover, it is too late, because then evil has already been done. Mr. Chairman. What happens if there is no agreement between Member States on the disclosure of incidents? In the evaluation of EUDAMED, I read that as long as agreement is lacking, incident reports do not become public. Of course, that's kind of weird. If the interests of a manufacturer in a Member State prevail over common sense, then all Member States must be involved and no one can see it. That's unacceptable. Does the Minister agree with me? It is good that the Minister has promised to report incidents in the Netherlands. Thank you for that, too. That is good, because there is no such obligation in the EU now or later. I hope that the Minister will continue his own course and that everything will be made public in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. How is the Minister going to make it clear what a side effect is and what an incident? A possible side effect may not have to be reported just because the manufacturer has already put it in the package leaflet. Can the Minister reflect on the role of the Dutch inspection under this European regulation? In EUDAMED, all clinical trials of high-risk tools should be made public to all. Does the Minister agree with me? How's he gonna make that happen? What does he see as a role for the expert panel in this? Mr. Chairman. The question to the Minister, all the techniques and all the English and complicated words aside, is whether the Minister agrees with me. Is he going to make sure that this new system makes all information on all implants accessible to everyone, all information on clinical research, all information on side effects, incidents and calamities, all information on which implants are available? Now that's real progress. I believe that we should not only pursue this progress, but I also think that this is the time to force it. I ask the Minister if he agrees with me and b will take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you, Mr President. It has taken us a long time before we can finally begin to deal with the medical implants bill. It's high time, too. Over the past year, several major incidents have occurred in various medical disciplines. The problems with the PIP breast implants played 13 years ago, but also more recently there were problems with the supervision of implants, which were revealed by the international journalistic work, which Trouw and Radar also participated in. Unfortunately, we have had to wait a long time for the European regulations that make it possible to really work on improving care for patients who need medical devices. It is high time we implemented these regulations as soon as possible, so that stricter requirements are placed on the market for the authorisation of medical devices and improved traceability of devices. Because we are talking about about 500,000 devices, from pacemakers, breast implants and artificial hips to plasters, gloves, wheelchairs, stethoscopes, needles and fillers. Use of implants can have a huge impact on the quality of life for the patient. That shows Maria's story, for example. It fights for the interests of thousands of people who suffer from the negative effects of inadequate pelvic floor mats. Many of them have become disabled because they are always in pain, tired, often have autoimmune reactions. They can no longer sit well, no more cycling, no more sports and so on. Sometimes the symptoms come much later, so it is not immediately clear what the cause is. The mats are often fully grown and glued, which makes it possible to remove them only by doing this thread for thread. But even that goes with varying success and results. Is it true that in Germany and in the United Kingdom the results are better in removing these pelvic floor mats? We also know that treatment with pelvic floor mats in Belgium is no longer reimbursed. Why in the Netherlands? Does the Netherlands also intend to suspend the use of certain types of plastic mats, such as the UK, Australia, New Zealand and Ireland? And is the Minister also going to talk to the NVOG, so the gynecological association, the Urology Association and the Surgery Association have shown that these implants are safe no longer implanting certain types of mesh into research at home and abroad? I'd like a response from the Minister. After all, it is strange that, when there is a serious incident at a crossroads at 1 in 100 cars, we do see what measures we can take for that intersection, but that is not the case in the case of serious incidents involving medical implants. Mr. Chairman. As stated, recent examples from Radar's broadcast, Argos' s stents and the issue of leaking breast implants underline the importance of legislation. The CDA is therefore pleased that this legislation is finally coming, and we wholeheartedly support the proposal. Well, we'd like to take it one more step. As previously advocated, we want a quality register for all medical implants included in the inclusion list. It can't be that we can trace within a few hours in which supermarket a pack of milk has been sold, but that we don't know at the push of a button which patient has a particular type of implant? In addition to the fact that patients can be quickly identified with quality registers, there is also information on the quality differences between implants and between different hospitals. The quality throughout the chain is therefore improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u20	Before you continue, Mrs. Agema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u21	I also pointed out to Mrs van den Berg during the previous debate that the fact that we cannot trace these medical implants now is also the fault of the CDA. There was an amendment by the PVV, many years ago, about the barcoding of all medical implants, which was adopted. Then there has been legal treatment here; actively reversed by a novelle by the minister. And then Mrs Van den Berg asks how it can be done, and she says: "a pack of milk is traceable and a medical implant is not." Mrs van den Berg must now realize, while I reminded her last time, that this is her own fault and that she should not cry crocodile tears now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u22	I think I also replied to Mrs Agema last time that we fully supported Mrs Agema's objective, even at that time. However, the Minister made it clear that this regulation would be quicker before the legislative process of Mrs Agema's proposal was completed. What I've always been told is that there were very practical reasons why that didn't happen, and not because we didn't think Mrs Agema was absolutely right that we should achieve more in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u23	No, it was a lobby at European level, it was about manufacturers' money. It was really just a game. And that's why the PVV amendment had to be overturned and that's why it took so many years before we can find a medical implant just like a pack of milk. It's really the CDA's fault. These are crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u24	This was before my time, but I had this figured out and this is really what I got: that it had to do with the timetable and the speed with which Mrs Agema's plans could be realised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u25	What Mrs Van den Berg has received is false.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you to Mrs van den Berg for her input. So far, I can endorse everything she says in her contribution. Here's what I'd like to ask her. She has studied the risks of implants and the possible side effects that people may experience, especially women who have breast implants. Then how does she feel about my call to have the surgery women need to remove the implants if they're worried, reimbursed by the health insurance company? Is she okay with that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u27	I think we had a brief discussion on this yesterday. The Minister then said that if the doctor and the patient come to the conclusion in the conversation that there is a medical need to intervene and thus remove the implant, this is simply covered by health insurance. At least for me, that was an answer I could live with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u28	Like the people's representative, I have called on doctors to interpret the directives in this way. Could Mrs Van den Berg support the call I made? Of course, I would like the Minister to make that appeal, but we also have our own responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u29	I do indeed hope that doctors will enter into the conversation with the patient in the manner explained by the Minister yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u30	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you. The quality throughout the chain will therefore be improved. Mr. Chairman. Medical devices are also different products used in cosmetic surgery. I have asked several questions on behalf of the CDA about the use of Botox and fillers. It is estimated that 450,000 to 500,000 times a year have been carried out. We see that putting this is happening more and more often in places where it should not, like the hairdresser or in a solar studio, or by people who are not competent or not competent. The mess with Botox and fillers leads to many recovery operations every year. However, despite repeated calls by the CDA, good information is still lacking. The separate website is hard to find. In response to my recent questions, the Minister answers that there is no data available on the number of visitors to this website, but that the website is integrated with the government website. That is a sensible decision as far as we are concerned. Will the Minister then also provide good information, especially to young people who think too easily about putting a syringe? The day before yesterday there was an interview in the PZC and therefore also the General Dagblad with Professor Liesbeth Woertman, who gives a clear example: a baby with a botox mother is having a hard time, because he cannot "read" his mother. I therefore repeat my previous plea. The age for cosmetic interventions should be increased from 18 to 21. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? Does the Minister also agree that there should be an independent website where clients can leave their assessments instead of the current commercial comparison sites? Of course, cosmetic surgery involves more than just Botox and fillers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u32	Before proceeding, Mr Raemakers has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u33	It is, of course, important to inform people who want to do cosmetic surgery, whatever age they are. But what are the CDA's substantive, scientific arguments not to opt for the age of 18 but for the specific age of 21 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u34	Some doctors tell me it should go up to 25. The professor I just mentioned, Professor Liesbeth Woertman, says that Botox and fillers change your facial expression so that a baby can't measure the mother's response properly. Furthermore, once you start with fillers and Botox, you will have to repeat that every time. These long-term effects, in particular, are simply not well known. In addition, we see that a lot of young people are actually doing it for the reason that they do not think they are good enough as they are today. We find this a regrettable starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u35	Therefore, it is not allowed in children under 18 years of age. The CDA is now proposing to take 21 years as an age limit, but where is the argument based on 21 years? Why not 22, why not 19, why not 27? So what is the substantive argumentation for specifically 21 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u36	I just indicated that some doctors even advocate going to 25 years. Not because it is said that it is better at 21 than at 20, or that it is better at 22 than at 21, but to give more time to make people aware of the enormous consequences that this can have. Also because one has to repeat it, and also because one does not know the long-term effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u37	It is a rather wondrous and conservative view of the CDA. Soon young people with, for example, a crochet nose or very small breasts there from the CDA will not be allowed to do anything about it when they are 18. Has Mrs Van den Berg lost sight of the fact that we live in a free country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u38	I want to make a clear distinction between cosmetic interventions with medical necessity and cosmetic interventions without medical need. So I am not talking about cosmetic interventions where there is a medical need. For example, people may have been mutilated by illness, even at a young age. We don't have it here that they have surgery for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u39	When is there no medical need? With a hooked nose you can live fine, there is no medical need. Mrs Van den Berg hasn't thought about it at all. Still, I think someone who's 18 years old and who's been sad about it all his life should be able to do that surgery. But the CDA says: no, no, no, no, no, wait three years longer, walk around three years longer, because, well, there's no medical need. That's weird, isn't it? We live in a free country, don't we? Forget about the kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u40	We certainly live in a free country, but it is also a question of sometimes protecting people. We think it is a bad thing for young people at such a young age to start with Botox and fillers without overlooking the consequences. That is why we are in favour of raising the age to 21 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mrs. Agema, I'd really like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u42	I've never heard Botox and fillers dramatize like that before. Of course, accidents can happen where things aren't going well at all, or that wrong or wrong means are being used, but that someone is having a problem that someone would use something like that at all is weird, isn't it? The feeling of a free country is really gone from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u43	That's for Mrs. Agema to say. Again, we find it a bad thing that people at such a young age start with fillers and Botox. That must be repeated every three or six months, and one cannot overlook in advance what that means, even for one's own development in the years after.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u44	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u45	Let's see. I should've put a dash. Does the Minister also agree that there should be an independent website instead of the current comparison sites? Cosmetic surgery involves more than just Botox and fillers: liposuction, eyelid correction, breast implants, heavy chemical peels and facelifts. This type of cosmetic treatment is offered annually at more than 600 clinics. Again, unclear regulation and lack of supervision lead to a wide variety of quality. According to the CDA, there are still five cases missing, which also lead to an uneven playing field, and thus an unfair economy. There is no clarity as to the quality of the hygiene conditions required. For example, eyelid corrections are performed not only in clinics, but also in general practitioners where other requirements apply. How does the Minister feel about that? There is no clarity about the requirements of competence and competence. Dentists and general practitioners may be competent for some treatments, but without additional knowledge and skills it is questionable whether they are competent. How does the Minister view this? The dermatologist and the plastic surgeon are both competent and competent, but they carry out liposuctions according to different guidelines. How can this be made clearer for consumers? Thirdly, there is a lack of regulation of many medical devices. In the United States there are only 10 types of fillers, but in Europe there are more than 100. Are the United States doing so well or are we doing something wrong? I'd like a response from the Minister. There is a lack of supervision by the inspection because it is only involved in serious complications and following reports, so it does not act on its own and does not monitor counterfeit fillers and parallel imports. Fifthly, there is a lack of information and proper information for patients. Many people are guided by experience websites, but they are commercial and their independence is often a big question mark. Is it not better to agree with the sector and, for example, the Patient Federation to set up an independent experience website for cosmetic treatments, so that it can be assumed that this is not controlled and paid by the sector itself? In addition, well-functioning advertising rules are needed, including for influencers on social media. Since October 2018, rules have been agreed within the Advertising Code Commission, but they are not enforced. How does the Minister view this? How far should we go before there is a legal ban on advertising cosmetic interventions, as is the case in Belgium? I would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to tackle these five issues. Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, we spoke in a debate with the Minister about the supervision of medical implants. In that debate, I tabled a motion with the colleagues of GroenLinks and the PvdA (22805, No. 74), which invites the government, inter alia, to work with health insurers and scientific associations to set up quality registers for all implants in the so-called inclusion list, if possible in accordance with one standard and by 2020. At the time, the Minister felt that this was a little too far, and I held my motion for a resolution. He wanted to consult with the scientific associations. In the meantime, did you get anything out of that? Because I would like to table the motion today, perhaps with an obligation: apply or explain. So I would also like a response from the Minister. In his answers to our questions, the Minister states that he will have further research carried out into the apps that, according to the RIVM report on medical apps, wrongly contain no CE marking. But that is a one-off action and not a structural solution. We made a comment on this earlier during the debate on the exchange of data in healthcare. At that time, the Minister indicated that he would examine all the initiatives to organise consumer information and whether it would be fruitful to settle something further. How's that going? Because there is a lot of offer, but finding a right and reliable app in the standard app stores is difficult, not only for citizens but also for professionals. There is hardly anything known about the reliability and effectiveness of all these apps. The importance of safety is reflected in yesterday's report on the data breach at a Utrecht youth institution. This shows how easily medical records can get onto the streets unintentionally. Part of the Leiden University Medical Center is working on the appchecker. It does so in collaboration with Thuisarts.nl, the GGD and NEN. The scaling-up would require €100,000, and then there could be cooperation with students from colleges and universities, so that these apps can be checked on a large scale. Is the Minister prepared to look into that? Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the biggest problem is enforcement and supervision, because laws without effect are worthless. This concerns monitoring the notified bodies that have to approve products, monitoring the low-risk products that only need a CE marking and monitoring the progress checks that companies are required to carry out, because the probability of taking them is now too small. How is the CE marking adapted to new developments? Manufacturers are required to notify significant changes to the notified body, the notified body. But what if they don't? Can the Minister indicate how he thinks he can be proactively supervised? Then the publication of studies with negative results. In response to questions from the CDA, the Minister states that the Central Committee on Human Research determines this. That's fine for the Netherlands, but what if research has happened in another country? Is it not a better idea to have the sector pay its own supervision through an independent supervisor? In other sectors, such as financial supervision by the Financial Markets Authority and housing corporations, this is regulated in such a way. This is what the sector pays for its own supervision. How does the Minister view this? Finally, Mr President. Is it true that the Central Committee on Human Research, as a result of these European regulations, is concentrating the assessment of high-risk studies on a limited number of recognized Medical Ethics Review Committees? What are the consequences of this? Does this mean that this assessment will now only take place in academic centres? The annual report of the said committee for 2018 also states that consideration is being given to the use of additional expertise for the assessment of clinical research in order to improve the quality of the content of the assessment. An expert in the field of medical devices will eventually be added as an additional mandatory member to the review committee which should continue to assess such an investigation. How's that plan coming along? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr Van Gerven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u47	This concerns a subject which the CDA did not mention in his speech, but which was raised in the course of the legal process and which the CDA also asked questions about, namely the Channelisation Scheme. This means that self-tests, such as HIV tests, can only be provided through the pharmacist or the doctor. The Netherlands has a strict provision in that regard. The bill lets that go. I have an amendment in preparation to maintain that channeling scheme. How's the CDA in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u48	Of course, I would like to hear the reaction, but there are also self-tests in other areas which are now very reliable or at least have a high degree of reliability, such as pregnancy tests. There are pros and cons to do this. It will, of course, be easier to access, but I would like to await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u49	It's not just about the reliability of the tests that's very essential and even crucial, but also about the possible outcome. It's a big deal when you do an HIV test and it turns out to be positive. The same applies to tumour markers. Then it's about finding cancer: do you have cancer, yes? That is not something we want to leave to the market, is it? The Minister says in his defence: that can be released, because it is also the case abroad, and it is difficult to maintain. But the enforcement aspect cannot be decisive on such an important issue, can it? When fighting child pornography, we do not say: never mind, because it is difficult to maintain? I'd like a response from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr. Van Gerven rightly states that there are self-tests that can have enormous consequences when people see the result. So the question is whether it is wisdom to make it freely available. Again, I'd like to await the Minister's response. I see Mr Van Gerven's objections, but the other side is that accessibility can be increased. I agree with Mr Van Gerven: laws without effect are worthless; I just said it. So I think enforcement is extremely important. But the fact that something is difficult to enforce is no reason to say: well, then we don't make any laws about it. Then we need to see how we can maintain better, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you, Mrs van den Berg. I call Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law finally regulates the mandatory barcode on medical devices, as my group has been advocating since 2010. A number of years ago, therefore, an amendment was adopted by us. But then it went wrong. There had to be a novelle and it all had to be reversed. Of course there were all excuses, such as: on staples and on sutures no barcode could be printed. On the question of whether it is technically possible, you can still set up a tree, but now of course we do not hear that argument at all. No, the point was that it was an amendment from the PVV and that the Brussels lobby stood up. It was about the manufacturers. Of course we're glad it's finally gonna happen. Anyway, it could have been years and years earlier. It's time we trace medical implants, just like we can with a pack of milk: within four hours. So much for the good news. Because is this new law going to prevent leaking breast prostheses or iron filings from hip prostheses? His snapping cryoballoons or loose screws that threaten to perforate organs, now past tense, I ask. I'm afraid not. As long as the approval of new devices remains in the hands of commercial companies and as long as manufacturers are allowed to decide which defects they report to the inspection, we will be left with defective and also dangerous implants. And that's not a small number. The investigation of the Implant Files detected 83.000 deaths and 1.7 million serious injuries from implants over the past decade. Ten years ago, there was still hope that the monitoring of medical devices would become as strict as that on medicines. However, under pressure from lobbyists in Brussels, the latest proposals were considerably watered down, despite the fact that at the same time the scandal of the contaminated breast implants broke through. The main argument was that more stringent rules required patients to wait longer for a tool. This curved argumentation is reflected in the explanatory memorandum of the present law. The Minister states that the stricter requirements "should not impede the availability of medical devices." So the Minister is actually saying: stricter rules hinder the market. He's just thinking about the manufacturers' money, and "we shouldn't want that." While he should say as Minister for Medical Care: stricter rules increase patient safety, and that is what I am in favour of. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This new law should at least have provided an independent public authority that assesses tools before they are admitted to the Dutch market. In addition, this law should have provided for a reporting obligation at the inspection for incidents involving devices. We could, of course, have amended the law if it had not been possible for this minister to reverse an almost unanimous PVV amendment with just as many crooked arguments and with only due regard for the market and not for patient safety. The recent issue with the so-called macro-textured and polyurethane coated breast implants again shows the Minister's market thinking. Where France, which is based on Dutch research, prohibits 13 implants from six manufacturers as a precaution for patient safety, the Netherlands needs to think about it. The Minister then shifts responsibility towards the surgeons, who now voluntarily refrain from using these implants. Too crazy for words, Mr. Chairman. As a precaution, I come to aftercare. Because what is now regulated if it appears that an implant is prematurely defective, causing damage or containing carcinogenic substances? Do all patients who already have the implant get a call for it to be removed, or only if they have complaints? Then I come to an important question: who pays for it? Is that to be borne by all of us, or is it to be recovered from a manufacturer? In the explanatory memorandum, I read that manufacturers must ensure adequate financial coverage for cases where damage has been caused by a defective device. Can the Minister explain this reimbursement procedure again clearly? And what if someone says as a precaution, "I don't want that implant; I think it's too risky. I want it taken out." So the patient has no symptoms and no damage yet, but wants the implant to be removed anyway, because it might be carcinogenic. How's that gonna work and who's gonna pay for it? I ask that question because I looked at the websites of treatment centers where those implants can be removed. There is simply a very clear statement that there is no compensation for fear or suspicion of an autoimmune disease. There is also no compensation for psychological problems or for a degree of hairdressing which does not involve painful breasts, visible folds below the edge, a double breast and prostheses shifted over a small distance. Mr. Chairman. If you want an implant removed and there is no recall, it all gets very complicated. You're dealing with health insurers who say if there's no medical need, there's no compensation. The doctor must decide whether it is medically necessary. But you're also dealing with time. RIVM needs to do some research. The Zorginstituut waits for the RIVM again, but also for the professional associations. For example, if they include medical necessity in their guidelines, it can be removed for good. But there's someone else who can make a decision, and that's the minister. It is an implant, such as these breast implants, which are admitted to the European market. I think that if it turns out that something is wrong with it, and someone says "I want it to be removed," for example because 25% of the implants will leak within ten years, then the patient must have the last word. Whoever says, "I just want to get rid of it." It is a product which is admitted to the European market. I actually want a good answer from the Minister. Why are there RIVM, health insurance companies, the guidelines, you name it? The product is admitted to the European market. And the product creates a problem. If it's a drug, you just stop taking that medicine. But this is an implant in your body; you cannot take action on your own and there are costs involved. Of course, these costs will have to be reimbursed, because the product was admitted to the European market. I would like a clear statement from the Minister on why, in addition to the Minister and RIVM and the guidelines, the patient himself is not allowed to say anything. If it turns out that there is something wrong with a product that has been admitted to the European market, then I want that patient to say 'I want it to go out' and then it will be reimbursed. That then the Minister will then recover the costs from the manufacturer is fine with me; but give the patient that opportunity. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister to that. Clearly, problems with implants have far more profound consequences than problems with medicines. I just told you, you can take off medication, or you can stop it, or you can replace it. An implant is in your body and can't always be removed. I still get stories in my mailbox from patients with pelvic bottom mats, with countless complications. They get re-operations, resulting in a painful, withdrawn and hopeless existence. I want action from the Minister. These types of plastic mesh mats are increasingly used, also for groin fractures, scars and stoma's. There is therefore no hesitation in dealing with it and it is not yet known whether these new products are safer. That remains to be seen, because the patient is a kind of guinea pig. The Minister said in the previous debate on implants that RIVM is currently investigating these mats, but they are widely used. They have already been admitted to the European market. Is the Minister prepared, as with the breast implants, to call on the profession to stop using pelvic floor mats, pending research by the RIVM? Is he willing to compensate the victims? Is he willing to side with the patient here, too? In case of pain, can patients have the mesh mats removed free of charge, as well as all post-treatments? Finally, Mr Van Gerven's amendment on the medical device assessment college. We also asked for this during the previous debate. In any case, we shall vote in favour of it. We hope that the Minister also wants to see that, just as we have a College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, we also need a college to assess the medical implants. It happens much too often that the horse is stretched behind the cart in a situation where medical implants have been inserted into the body and so people walk around with them, without being able to remove them themselves. Of course, that makes this situation very special in relation to, for example, medicines that you can stop with. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u53	Thank you. Mr Raemakers, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The care in the Netherlands is of an extremely high level. We want to keep it at least that way and, of course, wherever it is possible, we always want to improve the quality. Today we are talking about medical devices. These include implants such as breast implants and artificial hips, but also bandages, plasters and breathing equipment. In recent years, we have often debated this issue with each other and expressed our concerns. Recently, we were talking about implants in this Chamber and the broadcast of Radar. People got sick from leaking breast implants. There were major problems with joint implants and pelvic floor mats. It is therefore a good thing that we are back here today, now to strengthen the quality requirements for medical devices. That is what we do with a law that also implements our European obligations. Mr. Chairman. Everyone here will support the importance of a high-quality clinical underpinning of the performance and safety of medical devices. According to this law, the manufacturer may no longer use the clinical data of another product to demonstrate that the product is safe and performing as intended. Does this requirement also apply to the registration of the development of an already existing product? Are the authorised devices all being re-examined on the basis of the stricter requirements? If so, how many tools are involved? We often hear that number of 500,000 resources, but are there now 450,000 or 600,000? When do they all need to be re-evaluated? Is there a time frame for that, too? Mr. Chairman. We want to make sure medical devices are safe. To this end, we do not simply take manufacturers' word for it. They are interested parties. The so-called notified bodies, the notified bodies, will decide on the authorisation of medical devices. Are there enough of those notified bodies? Are they equipped with the task ahead of them, which is to re-assess all resources? What about independence? These bodies are paid by manufacturers to assess their product. What guarantees are there that this will always be done independently? The notified bodies will need sufficient qualified and independent staff. I tabled a motion on this last month; that was a proposal from D66 and the VVD. That motion has been adopted, but I think it is important once again to point out here that capacity in the Netherlands needs to be closely monitored and that we should encourage European cooperation between notified bodies wherever possible, so that in future this capacity is sufficient to ensure proper supervision of all medical devices. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I am pleased that there will be an evaluation of the operation of the Transparency Register in the summer. As of 2016, relationships between healthcare providers and manufacturers of medical devices will be investigated. So that evaluation comes in the summer. It is important to discuss the results with each other quickly and to take action if necessary. This is an appropriate point for D66. Mr. Chairman. It is also a good thing that with this bill the manufacturer has long-term responsibility for the safety and quality of his product throughout the life cycle of that product. I am pleased that the Minister has already indicated in response to questions in the written round that the inspection will monitor the measures taken by manufacturers to ensure that there is sufficient financial coverage for damage caused by defective devices. Thank you for this. Then there is the availability of tools. Most of the in vitro diagnostic medical devices used in laboratories will be classified into a higher risk class. Has the Minister received any signals that manufacturers will no longer be offering their products for this reason? If so, will there be sufficient alternatives on the market for those who need it? Is there a risk that manufacturers will decide to restrict the supply of these medical devices as a result of stricter quality requirements? What risks does the government see for products developed for small groups of patients which may be less profitable for this reason? And how can we overcome these risks? Mr President, I will conclude. We still have a few questions, but all in all, D66 believes that there is a good law in place to provide better protection for patients who need medical devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u55	Thank you. Finally, Mr Rutte of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. On Thursday morning, 21 March, some people were still a little stunned because of a long election evening, which preceded that, the Chamber debated the supervision of medical implants. This debate was in response to the intrusive report, to which several colleagues have referred, on the so-called Implant Files and the serious abuses that have arisen in that report. I ended that debate by expressing the importance of the new Medical Devices Act being dealt with quickly. That call is being answered today, because that is the law that is before us today. This is an important milestone, as this law contains important new safeguards for the safety of medical devices, implants and in vitro diagnostics. Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the substantive treatment of the law, I would like to outline what extremely important medical devices we are talking about today. When I think of medical devices and implants, the first person to come to mind is someone who has been active for years as a driver within the VVD. He was a medical specialist who stood in the middle of life but was affected by Parkinson's disease. He had to withdraw completely from public life because of that nasty disease, while he was very active in it. Normal functioning was no longer possible despite heavy drug use, but after an operation where two electrodes were placed in his brain for so-called deep brain stimulation, he has his life almost completely back. That's impressive. Another example. Last weekend, at my mother-in-law's birthday party, I saw a two-year-old cousin hovering around, playing and babbling. The same guy had become deaf more than a year ago due to a very dangerous virus infection, but thanks to a so-called cochlear implant he can now hear again. It is virtually impossible to imagine what this means for its quality of life, now and in the future. Thanks to the implant, he can hear, learn to talk much better and much faster, and much easier to participate in society. His parents expressed the hope that future innovations in this area could further improve their son's hearing capacity. I share that hope with them. Also think of women who lose a breast, part of their breast or both breasts after treatment of breast cancer or for cancer prevention. For them, the possibility of breast reconstruction using breast implants can be crucial in order to recover and recover life as well as possible. That is a hugely important step in improving the quality of their lives. At the same time, however, several colleagues have already referred to this........................................................................................................................................................................................... It is precisely around silicone implants that a number of problems have arisen in recent years, seriously affecting the health of women. Once the damage has been done by an implant, the road to recovery is very complicated. I shall come back to this later in my speech. Mr. Chairman. These were three very recognizable examples of medical implants. Today's bill, however, deals with many more types of devices, implants and medical diagnostics. In total, more than 500,000 medical products are involved. At first sight, that is an incredible number, but if you realize what is covered by this law, you may have some understanding. Because the law not only monitors complex implants, but also, for example, sutures, medical staples, artificial hips, surgical tongs, dialysis fluids, mouth caps, etc. An almost infinite list, which thus adds up to about half a million. All things that are extremely important to provide good medical care. Given the great importance of these tools and the fact that the Netherlands is only a very small country, it is also good that the regulation of these devices is regulated at European level. With the new Medical Devices Act, we are implementing two European regulations. During the negotiations on this regulation, the Netherlands has always sought the balance between security, extremely important, and innovation, also extremely important, as I outlined at the beginning. I fully endorse that balance. On the one hand, it is crucial that new innovative medical implants and devices that can contribute to the quality of life of people are readily available in the Netherlands. At the same time, the implants and medical devices must be safe. The Dutch government's commitment to security has had a visible result. It is a good thing that medical devices become more traceable, that stricter requirements are imposed on risk classifications and that checks can also be carried out after market authorisation. Post-market surveillance, it's called in English. It is also very important to oblige manufacturers to monitor devices and implants after market authorisation and to identify side effects. For the sake of safety and the new risk classification, previously authorised medical devices and implants should be re-evaluated. This is done by those notified bodies, often referred to in English as notified bodies. This re-evaluation leads, partly because of Brexit, to all sorts of headaches. Many of these notified bodies are located in the United Kingdom. The approval of an implant or a device by a notified body from the United Kingdom would, after a hard Brexit. the danger has still not passed............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the available capacity of notified bodies on the European mainland, as Mr Raemakers has already referred to, is under enormous pressure. I am getting reports that the capacity of the notified bodies is already fully booked for the next two years and that, in particular, the smaller suppliers of implants and devices are currently in no position to obtain a timely assessment of their products. Now, of course, if producers have been lax and let it go, we should not help them. I get that. But the signal that the assessment capacity is too small structuralally and that therefore crucial tools can get in the way of, think of producers of dialysis fluid; if it is no longer there, you can't dialysis......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The VVD therefore wants the Minister to consult with his European colleagues in order, if necessary, to create the possibility of using perseverance power when national health is compromised to give priority to the assessment of a device or implant in a notified body. This would enable the Minister to prioritize in case of emergency, which would make devices of major importance for public health more readily available to patients and would not endanger public health. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State or how he's gonna handle this. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Government sought to monitor the balance between innovation and safety during the negotiations on the Aid Regulation. I told you. Those who demand 100% safety smother virtually any form of innovation. But those who do not have sufficient attention to safety allow implants and devices that can cause major damage to people. We have heard a number of compelling examples here. Think of the misery with the pelvic floor mats, very intriguingly outlined by Mrs Agema. We heard about the metal-on-metal implants again today. And so there are many more. In general, the VVD considers that the balance between innovation and safety in the present law and regulations is well maintained, at least much better than in the past. However, there are still a few questions, in particular those concerning highly innovative implants, which are custom made or printed, such as in the Dutch university medical centers. From the umc in my own hometown, Groningen, I received a few compelling signals that the new European regulation and the present law could lead to problems. Let me give you a few examples. Umc's make up part of the implants and tools themselves. That's what they do to size. This is increasingly happening with new techniques, such as 3D printers. If an umc makes a custom implant for one's own patients, it seems to be allowed within the limits of the regulations that exist, the Medical Device Regulations, also called MDR, since it would be a custom-made implant or tool, as it is called. My first question to the Minister is: is that correct? Can an umc make such a tool for its own patients? Is that okay? These same umc's also make these kinds of implants and tools for other healthcare providers. That makes sense, given the specific knowledge that umc's have in that area. However, it seems that this MDR regulation requires that the implant or device should, in such a case, still have to obtain CE approval from a notified body. In practice, this is not feasible. You create a unique implant and then have to be approved by such a notified body. If that succeeds in terms of money and administrative burdens, then you're years away. This is therefore impossible in practice. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. Is that indeed the case? And if that's true, does he see ways to keep the customization of an implant or device by umc's for patients at other healthcare providers in a practical way? I would like a reply, because there is in practice unrest and ambiguity on these points. This unrest and uncertainty will lead to fewer people being helped tailor-made. That seems undesirable to the VVD. In addition to making or printing an implant or tool completely customized, you also have the practice of "at least" there was so far "that an existing implant or device gets a small adjustment, so that it suits a specific patient or a specific healthcare provider." It seems that the MDR Regulation no longer allows this procedure, since after each adjustment a new CE approval has to be collected from a notified body. My brief question to the Minister is: is that correct? And if that's true, is he willing to look together with the umc's to see what executable solutions can be found for this? And if it isn't true, then how is he going to get rid of this misunderstanding and get rid of the unrest? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of safety, I would like to come back to the breast implants that we have a lot to do at the moment. France had a specific type of breast implant removed from the market. Several colleagues spoke about this. It's the macrotextured and polyurethane coated breast implants; let's call it the macrotextured breast implants. These are breast implants that are specifically used in women who want to undergo breast reconstruction. At least that's what they're most used for. In the debate on 21 March last, a number of Members here in the Chamber have already asked for this ban to be introduced in the Netherlands, as in France, even though France is currently the only country in the European Union that has issued that ban. On 4 April, the Minister announced that he would like to have further research carried out by the RIVM. Pending the results of this, he went into consultation with plastic surgeons with the request that these breast implants should no longer be used in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. This is a complicated case. I'll tell you why. It is also very relevant to this debate. I will explain that too. If you only look at safety and there are safety risks with these implants, then it is very logical that you say: we should not use them at the moment; we wait for the investigation and if they really remain structurally unsafe, we take them off the market. It could be. But that ignores the problems that are caused by this in practice. Through a colleague of mine I received the following message the day before yesterday, a whatsapp sent by a woman who is waiting for a breast reconstruction with pain: "In the hospital they did not know how the implants will end. I'm scheduled for the end of September. If there is a ban, I hope it will be after September. Because I want that ribbed, that macrotextured, because the plastic surgeon over the years has the experience that these are best accepted by the body. The smooth, the alternative, cause problems with rejection and embossing. Then maybe I've been in pain for a year for nothing. If it envelops, it's over and out. And that for 1 in 7,000 over 75 years." That 1 in 7,000 over 75 years of age is that increased risk of that particular form of lymph node cancer. There's an increased risk, and that's what it looks like. See here the dilemma in practice. Because what's better for this woman's quality of life? Is that a ban on this particular implant, because there is a risk, with the risk that the alternative implant she chooses will be sealed up and she may lose the breast permanently? Or is that to allow this implant in the knowledge that there is an increased risk of lymph node cancer? Isn't that exactly an example that makes it clear that, above all, the side effect and the risks must be clearly identified so that the doctor and the patient can decide together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u57	What Mr Rutte describes must be a terrible situation for women who are awaiting surgery. The same applies to women who have just had surgery and who have had implants. Mr Rutte called for openness on side effects and incidents. I very much agree with that, of course. Does he agree with me that the problem with which these women are now dealing is, of course, ultimately caused by manufacturers and by the system of notified bodies, which means that there are implants on the market that are not safe enough or of which we do not know the side effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u58	In any case, let us be clear that with the law now before us and the new regulations, there will be much more insight into side effects and that this is very much needed. It is good to know what the effect of a product is, but also the side effects must be mapped very well. So that's gotta be better. The new law, which maintains the working method with the notified bodies, will still work with notified bodies, but it will still be much more visible about the side effects. That's what I'm supposed to do. Higher demands are also made in advance. That's point one. It's very important that we know that. What I'm touching here is this. If, as is the case with medicines, you know more and more about side effects, preferably even before you allow anything to come to the market, new dilemmas arise, namely precisely these. This woman knows the risks. She knows that. Her doctor talked about that very well with her. She still knows that. She also knows what the alternatives are, but she says: I am now being deprived of this choice; I am willing and knowingly prepared to take this risk and I know exactly what I choose to do. You could also say, if there's a risk, take it off the market. I would like to outline that dilemma here, because I honestly believe that we are not just getting out of it. You can't cut that with scissors right now. We must be very aware of the following: the more we know, the more we run into these kinds of dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u59	This is a bit of a curious reasoning, because this does not work at all in medicine. Mr Rutte says it would be good if we knew more. He also says that there are dilemmas behind that. But he supports the law that gives more insight. Aren't we the right thing to do for all patients to have all the information made public? Mr Rutte spoke about Deep Brain Stimulation. It is very nice that his friend has so much benefit from this, but we don't know anything about the side effects in the Netherlands. In the United States, yes. That's where they're reported. Does Mr Rutte support my request that all information, all investigations, all side effects and all incidents be made public to everyone, to patients and doctors? Can he say yes to that? Because then we can ask the minister together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u60	In any case, I have heard Mrs Ploumen's very compelling speech on this subject. I have also heard her talk about the enormous layering that seems to be present. Who has access to what information? I don't know if that's all black and white, but I do feel very much for her. If even doctors are unable to access relevant information, you may ask yourself whether there is sufficient openness and sufficient understanding of how it works and how it works. So I think we can come a long way with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u61	Finally. Thank you for that, because that also makes the dilemma less pressing. Perhaps the doctor who advises this lady didn't have all the information, but he should have. So instead of magnifying the dilemma with more information, you narrow down the dilemma in my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u62	I have a sequel to that. I spoke in my speech about the liability of the doctor when he uses a medical aid case, as it is called in legal jargon, in his work, for example an implant. The legislation says: "The risk arising from the use of a medical aid case should, in principle, be borne by the aid provider." Does Mr Rutte agree with this point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u63	That is the starting point of the law, so that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u64	The practice is different. In many cases, the doctor is, as it were, relieved of liability because, for example, he did not know the side effect. Then the problem will be with the patient again. Would it not then be better to assume that the doctor's liability is maintained at all times and that the unless provision, which is also in the law, is not applied or very restrictively?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u65	Before we turn this into a very extensive legal debate on liability law... That's very complicated stuff. I'll come back to Mr. Van Gerven's first question. The law applies, including in medical law. The law on liability simply applies there. I believe that I am even convinced that the coming of this legislation, of this regulation, will increase the knowledge of doctors. There will be much more information about how it works, but above all about the side effect. It's coming along the way. The doctor does have an obligation to know and discuss these side effects with his patient. Perhaps in the past a doctor could hide behind "I didn't know those side effects either, because they were not known." This made it difficult or impossible to prove the liability of that doctor. With the coming of this law, this is exactly what is changing. In itself we do not have to change anything in liability law, because the coming of this law makes a doctor who looks away from the side effects much more liable. In any case, that is my own legal conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr Van Gerven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, rounding it up. I think that's right. That's true. But I would like to stress that we cannot know everything. That's gonna stay. So new side effects will always come to light. But even if it only becomes known later, isn't the starting point that the doctor remains primarily responsible for the material he used? We now have a lot of discussions about all side effects being made public and patients being able to choose. But first of all, it is still the responsibility...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr. Van Gerven, could you cut it a little short?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u69	... from the specialist or the doctor to use appropriate material.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u70	That is, of course, correct. You need to use responsible equipment. The law of liability is more complex than that. The question is, are you responsible for what you used? That's right, but if you can't know that something is unsafe, because it will reveal itself later, the doctor can't be called upon to do so either. I don't think we're gonna change that right now. I do think that this law requires much more access to these side effects, not only when it comes to the market, but especially after that. Doctors need to verify that information. I think it is wise that this doctor should know, as Mrs Ploumen says, and that we should bring it together. This also increases the responsibility of the doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u71	I have a question for Mr. Rutte about that woman from that example, who was informed in advance about certain risks. What if at some point she decides she wants to get rid of that implant? Does the VVD then think that the removal should be compensated, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u72	It is if there's a medical need. This can be true if new risks are revealed, or if the risk that appeared to exist in advance, is revealed in practice. There may be all kinds of good reasons to remove the implant at that time. If someone then decides with the doctor that they have to get rid of it and they agree: yes, it will require a fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u73	But why only if there is a medical need? I don't quite understand. These products are, of course, admitted to the European market. It may have been said in advance that there may be risks, but what do you do if those risks do manifest themselves in the patient's sense, but not so much on paper? So the doctor does research and doesn't immediately find a medical need. That is, of course, extremely harsh when someone wants to get rid of something that is in his body. With a medicine, you can just stop. If you don't like a medicine, whether those side effects can be determined or not, you stop taking the medicine. But one of those implants... How do you get rid of that? So my question to the VVD is why that decision-making power does not really lie with the patient. Why does the VVD want it to stay with the minister, the RIVM and the Healthcare Institute and not the patient who wants to get rid of something from his body?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u74	That's a little too black and white. Of course, a very large proportion is also with the patient, so the patient who talks with a doctor says: I read this, I see this, there are apparently risks. Based on that conversation and what can be found in that patient, there can indeed be a medical need. So it does start with the patient, but it's not completely one-sided. I do not think it can be so, therefore, that I do not fully support the course that Mrs Agema proposes, that at the time something is placed in your body, sometimes because of a medical necessity and sometimes of cosmetic motive, and then you think of "maybe not, because I read things and I don't feel comfortable with them," which can indeed lead to psychological suffering, then you can say unilaterally as a patient that it has to come out and then there is always a compensation for it. It's not quite black and white. I already know which list Mrs Agema is going to read, because she has just done so in her speech. That list is indeed intrusive, but I think that list too black and white. I can imagine a provider saying that on these grounds there is no medical necessity, but that an individual assessment can be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Rutte mentioned the prevention of ALCL, which is a rare form of lymph node cancer. I would like to point out to him that he uses outdated figures on this. The Radar programme has announced in the last two weeks that instead of the 32 known cases, the number of cases has increased to 52 over the last two years. That makes the plea for security even more compelling as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you for that extra information. That does not make the basis of the plea any different, but it may make the weighting different again. So that's exactly what's going on here. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. We must be aware that, with the implementation of the present law and the very justified obligation to monitor and map the side effects of medical devices and implants much more intensively and much better, the dilemmas that are now occurring with these macro-textured breast implants are much more common. As with medicines, we will not only learn much more about the effects of implants in the coming years, but also much more about these side effects. This calls for consideration to be given to how this additional information is dealt with. In the case of medicinal products, although it is rare to take a drug completely off the market or only in specific groups on the basis of the knowledge about side effects, an adverse reaction is usually taken into account in the individual decision to use a medicine or not and is therefore part of the decision-making process. Think, for example, of whether or not you want to go through chemotherapy. That is also a treatment with medication that can have very serious side effects but can also have a lot of impact on prolonging your life or even possibly surviving. Also you can see that the weighting to do it or not is made between doctor and patient, but knowing what the risks can be and knowing what those side effects can be. I would like to hear from the Minister how he views these issues. Is there a decision framework for dealing with the known side effects of medical devices and implants? When is an update part of the conversation and thus part of that joint decision between doctor and patient and when should the supervisor or minister take far-reaching measures? I'd like to hear a clear answer. I'd really like to know what path we're going to take when we have this kind of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u77	Are you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u78	I've got another cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u79	I think the reasoning of the VVD is limp, though. Indeed, the risks of chemotherapy are discussed, but you can always stop chemotherapy; you have to finish that course, but you can stop medication. You can also choose not to start the second course or the third course, but an implant is in your body and it needs to be surgically removed. Does the VVD see that difference in reasoning and does the VVD agree with me that you should actually have different conditions when it comes to resources that you can stop with and resources that you cannot remove yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u80	Yes, I agree with Mrs. Agema. I draw a parallel because it's partly true. In the weighing whether you want to undergo something or not, you know the side effects very often with medicines. If there are side effects, it doesn't mean that a drug goes off the market by definition, but that you have a choice whether you want to use it or not and that you have a conversation about it. That's what I'd like with tools. But I am well aware that with a tool, the impact can be much more definitive. So that does matter in the weighting framework we put in. I want you to be able to weigh, because a risk-free implant probably doesn't exist. In the end, I think it is important that we consider it important to consider the risks at which an implant or device should really be withdrawn from the market, so that it is no longer available to anyone because it is unsafe, and at what risks we consider it to be part of the conversation, and that doctors and patients can take a decision on it in full knowledge of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yeah, but I find that very complicated. These medical implants have all been admitted to the European market. If there turns out to be something wrong with it later on, it is very strange that you have to meet all kinds of criteria and have a conversation and the RIVM will do that research. As a patient with an authorised product, you should be able to say that you want to get it out without other people, doctors and other medical authorities making a judgment? You should be able to say: it's in my body, I can't take it out myself, it was allowed into the European market, but there's something about it now? Then you'd have to be able to get paid to get it removed, wouldn't you? I therefore think that the Minister should come to the manufacturers and get the money from there, but you should give people the opportunity to get rid of something if it is not good, when it was allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u82	Then we are going to have a little bit of an interruption debate, but that can be achieved, I say to Mrs Agema. If something is allowed and by following, in this case, the implant there is new information showing that there are or are likely to be very serious side effects, I can imagine that on the basis of that information someone goes to the doctor and such a doctor says that on the basis of this new information it has to come out. Then there's just a medical necessity and it can come out. It does depend on the type of information and its seriousness. We won't escape that, because you don't know everything in advance. I wish. It is not for nothing that we are making increasing demands for this too. So the extent to which implants can enter the market becomes more difficult. And that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u83	Very briefly, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u84	Finally, Mr President. There are also implants, a quarter of which will leak within ten years. These implants were originally admitted to the European market, and women also received these implants. If you find yourself in a situation where the medical necessity has to be demonstrated, how is the doctor going to do that? By blood tests, or do I know what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u85	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u86	Investigate or take photos? But you're not feeling well. Then it must be possible for the person who has that implant to just say, "And now it's coming out?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u87	Same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u88	Exactly. That's what we just shared. I think it comes to that point very often, but the patient's one-sided desire is not enough. However, it is a very important step that needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u89	You will conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u90	Yeah, I'm gonna do that. I'm coming to the last block, more summary. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is clear that the VVD strongly supports the new Medical Devices Act. With this law, we are taking a very important step in getting securely available or much safer availability or keeping innovative medical devices for the Dutch patient. But with the adoption of this law, the medical devices and implants record is far from complete. More knowledge about the operation and update of medical devices and implants will create a completely new playing field, which will put us before many dilemmas. That's just what the interrupting debates show here. As far as the VVD is concerned, we leave considerations to the well-informed doctors and patients where possible, provided that they can be well informed. We have to make sure of that. Together they make the choice of the best intervention for the quality of life of that particular patient. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u92	I'm suspending 45 minutes. A quick calculation teaches me that this is until 1:40 p.m. After that, we will continue to regulate our work. And then the Minister's turn is for his answer.
