ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the debate on the purchase of Air France-KLM shares, including the incidental supplementary budget Air France-KLM (35148). I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u2	I give the floor to Mr Alkaya as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a crazy word market forces are. It suggests that something works without actually having to work. If the market certainly does not work, there are public interests in play that need to be protected, such as accessible care, proper postal delivery or a well-accessible country with an airport with sufficient destinations. Last week was therefore quite hopeful. We could all see that a number of parties who believed blindly in the functioning of the market for years now seemed more realistic. Ladies and gentlemen, public interests are not in safe hands with people who want to maximize profits. The fact that the market is being reduced in sectors of public interest is therefore simply sensible and I welcome it as a socialist. I therefore hope that buying a state interest in Air France-KLM is a trend break with the naive policy of previous years. If so, I'll ask the cabinet. And what does this mean, for example, for the planned privatisations? Think of De Volksbank, ABN AMRO or Eneco, the greenest energy company, which is also on sale. When I read the answers to our written questions about the secret operation of the cabinet, which only came in yesterday at 10:00 p.m., and when I put them next to the letters of the cabinet-Balkenende II, especially of the two VVD-persons of that time, Zalm and Schultz, I can only conclude that the Netherlands was naive when KLM was taken over by Air France. There has simply been gambling with the Dutch public interest. For years our interests were not in our own hands, but in the hands of the market and the French government. Only a few buttery agreements were the basis for this. Why was there no participation in the holding company at the time, in 2003, I ask the cabinet. The cabinet says in the written answers that this was simply not considered at the time. Is there nothing else known at the Ministry of Finance or at the former Ministry of Transport and Water State, today Infrastructure and Water State? Although things were bad with KLM at the time, I can't imagine that it wasn't considered at all at the time to take a share in the holding company. Therefore, I would like to ask you once again very sharply: in the run-up to the acquisition of KLM in 2003, there were no opinions or notes on whether or not to acquire shares in the holding company, and if so, what was the point of not doing it at the time? I would find it extremely strange and unlikely if this were not discussed at all in the ministries at the time. This is why I will shortly be proposing that a parliamentary inquiry be carried out into the situation surrounding the takeover of KLM in 2003. This must be prevented, at all costs, in the future. What is even more clear from the documents is that it was in fact the agreement to reduce the shareholder interest together with France. But if the French state is the only culprit, I ask the cabinet. Does the cabinet really think that the public interest of the Netherlands is safe with other shareholders, for example with state-owned companies such as China Eastern Airlines, which is already a major shareholder in the holding company? Or are other foreign shareholders or investors going to work hard for the Netherlands and the thousands of people working at Schiphol? Of course they won't. What difference does it make if the public interest of the Netherlands is threatened by a foreign government or by shareholders, by the market? Can we assume that this cabinet will always protect our public interests, regardless of who is threatening them, governments or market parties? Whether or not the government should intervene in the market is governed by the so-called Note Participation Policy. It dates back to 2013. In its written replies, the Cabinet states that it sees no reason to change this 2013 note following the purchase of Air France-KLM shares. A screening is only planned in 2020. That's way too late. I started by saying that thinking about the market, about what the market can and above all not, seems to be changing. Fortunately, the cabinet must learn from the mistakes that have been made in the past. A new and more realistic view of the skills and incompetence of the market must translate into new policies. For example, the 2013 Note Participation Policy states that making returns is a criterion for entering or not entering a business. But at Air France-KLM, that wasn't the trade-off, was it? It was all about the public interest and commitment in the company, wasn't it? That old policy isn't enough now, is it? I therefore believe that it is appropriate to review this policy as soon as possible and not to wait until 2020. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Finally, the exceptional way in which this Chamber was informed of the nearly 750 million spent. Mr President, you know better than I do: budget law lies with the States General. We have the right to assess state expenditure and then, if necessary, approve or reject it. Did the Chamber have the opportunity to reject this purchase in advance? I'm really wondering. The De Wit Committee was clear: the Chamber should be able to control these types of acute purchases in advance and afterwards. It is possible to choose the route of confidential information. This is, of course, quite understandable in this case, and this is also apparent from the written answers. But what if a majority of Members of Parliament had not agreed to the purchase of shares at the time? Could we then debate it beforehand? I doubt it. Members of parliament even had to sign a confidentiality agreement to get the information at all. What if MPs hadn't signed the statement? Could they have done their constitutional task at all? I wonder, Mr. Chairman. The way in which this process has been conducted is more like informing the Chamber, while this is really about the budget right of the Chamber. And although I understand specifically this purchase of the cabinet, I do not know whether I can support this method of working, this way of informing the Chamber. In any case, this should not lead to a precedent for the future; we must discuss this further in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and then draw our conclusions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has made a very exceptional purchase of shares in a private holding company, Air France-KLM. The PvdA will assess this exceptional purchase in the light of how we look at the economy and state participations. The PvdA Group, we Social Democrats, believe that public interests can sometimes be best served by state ownership. To start with the first question, we believe that Schiphol, KLM, is crucial infrastructure for our economy, crucial for our jobs and has a network function that deserves public protection. Secondly, we must establish that Mr Alkaya has just said that these public interests are not sufficiently protected at the moment. Too lighthearted a decision can be taken by another very bad decision which would cause a lot of jobs in the Netherlands, not only at Schiphol Airport but also around it, a lot of companies. That's not imaginary. We have seen this in other countries, also in the near vicinity. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, the method of achieving this. I have three basic questions. First of all, 14% of the shares in the holding company were purchased. That was bought for the 744 million. But what exactly was bought? What influence? What appointments can the cabinet make that would not otherwise be possible? Exactly what voting rights have been acquired, including in relation to the voting rights of the other shareholders? Of course, we have the French shareholder, but there are also a lot of private shareholders who can also have twice as much voting rights under French law. So in short, what exactly is secured by buying 14%? Are those public interests secured now? Mr. Chairman. The second part of the PvdA Group's questions about the method sees it secretly overwhelming the situation. The previous cabinet had a lot of discussions on this case, as is also apparent from the response of the ministers. The PvdA acknowledges that the French have also robbed the cabinet in various areas, especially with the equity interests of other large companies. Of course, that's not how it's done, so that was really a problem. But the great danger to the network function, to Schiphol and to KLM is not in the French, but in the tough competition of local carriers, private companies that undermine working conditions, and large international companies, often publicly funded, in Saudi Arabia, the Middle East and Asia. That's not the French. Does the Cabinet recognize that? The question then is whether or not we could and should have tried to take over part of the French shares together or to take an interest to serve the Dutch interests. I am not entirely impressed by once an angry reaction from the French people - we should not be guided by that - but we now have only one intention in terms of the subject matter of discussion, and where is that going to lead to? You are familiar with history, as I say to both ministers. With the intention to talk about something, about the governance structure, the public interests, we have not come very far to date. Why would I be able to do that now? Mr. Chairman. The third point, the budget right of the Chamber. As a Member of Parliament, I have had to experience this before, namely the nationalisation of SNS REAAL. Afterwards, the cabinet was accountable for when and how the parliament was informed at that time. That was a much deeper case than this, because if SNS went bankrupt, millions of savers would have lost their savings immediately. That's really different than buying 14% of the shares in an airline. I therefore believe that the cabinet should make a better argument as to why it has now spent 744 million without Parliament's prior approval. It is merely said that otherwise it would have been more expensive, which is, by the way, the question, because when this cabinet participation became known, prices fell. Private shareholders are not so keen on states that secretly bid against each other. It is also a question of whether this is sufficient to justify the budgetary right of the Chamber, which really is our most serious right in Parliament. I feel strongly about asking these questions, all the more so because I do not think that the cabinet has done well on three points. First of all, the recommendations of the De Wit Committee have not been complied with on two vital, crucial points. We were not allowed to inform our group chairman. We just agreed to do that. Then you can have your back as a parliamentarians. Then you can see what you think. The Minister has explicitly forbidden us from doing so. That is simply not according to parliamentary rules, if you choose to do so. I'd like an explanation on that. Why did that happen? Secondly, that has also been explicitly discussed, and that is not for nothing the Registrar of the Finance Committee should be present. Why? Because after having been informed confidentially, the Chamber may also request confidential information from the Minister itself. We also have support for this. Not only does the cabinet have that; so do we. Thirdly, we want to report on such meetings. That is not in the recommendations of the De Wit Committee, but that was expressed by this Chamber in 2013. Why? Because we in the Chamber also want to be accountable for what we have done there, because we are forced to be bound there. Why has the cabinet acted differently on these three points than Parliament wants? Finally, Mr President. This is a very unique step. But state participation policy and our economy will also lead to discussion of other crucial functions in the economy as to whether state participation would be a good method. I have already had the debate with the Minister of Finance on the money transporters. Recently, SecurCash went bankrupt. All our ATMs depend on that company. That really is a public provision. Do you have to leave it to a private enterprise? PostNL I will conclude, President.... is another example where you might not necessarily have to act directly with state shares, but with much more regulation. It's a private monopolist. On the other hand, there are state-owned companies operating across the border that you have to ask yourself whether the Dutch taxpayer should do so. I call an NS: more than half of the turnover comes from England and we already see the losses coming towards us. Mr. Chairman. This debate will take place here to the full in the future with regard to the PvdA as a result of this state participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Let me now give the floor... Oh, Mr. Nijboer, Mr. Van Raan was a little slow walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u7	I welcome Mr Nijboer's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u9	I do wonder how Mr Nijboer felt when he was informed and immediately heard: I am not supposed to do anything, in spite of the De Wit Committee. Can he say anything about that? I also have a second question, which I ask immediately. Mr Nijboer has spoken about industrial policy, but I have not actually heard anything about the harmfulness of aviation in terms of climate policy and the appreciation of the PvdA that the government is therefore investing in a sector which is seriously polluting and which should be phased out. I'd like to hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u10	With regard to the first: I was concerned about that, because I have, of course, experienced this in that previous period. I thought: I will certainly mention in the debate that I think that parliamentary budgetary law is really a very heavy right that should not be dealt with lightly. That is what I have just tried to highlight. On the second question: of course, aviation must be more sustainable. Of course you have to. We are also in favour of a kerosene load. That's what we're fighting for together. There must also be much more sustainable aircraft. At the same time, according to the PvdA's belief, it is crucial for our economy to have good links with the world. We're an open economy. I think that there are good rail links, and I am applauding Mr Van Raan on my side. I also think that good connections are good ways of getting there, perhaps less applause for.... but also good airways. That's a public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u11	But with regard to the first: getting the communication 'we're going to do this, but you can't say anything', especially in the light of what Mr Nijboer has already been through. Has Mr Nijboer not had a tendency to inform his group leader or to do something? In fact, he was sitting there in the same room as anyone who had been carried along in this game of the Minister.... as a mannequin with flour in his mouth. I wonder how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u12	Well, that's not how I qualify, Mr. Chairman. But I will leave that qualification on Mr Van Raan's behalf. I am always very keen on what exactly is the parliamentary position. On the one hand, we have the violation of the Court's budget law. I have a pretty firm judgment on that, as you can hear a little bit. That wasn't the case there at all. There was the issue of providing information to the Chamber, another fundamental right, namely giving information as quickly as the cabinet can. There was no agreement or discussion at all. You can ask questions, but that's not the issue there. I've been there before. This may be necessary in a democracy, for example, when a bank is falling over. That's what happened. The question is whether this heavy substance could have been used for this case. I've just asked questions about that. I always want information from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u13	Good. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was an unorthodox decision. For 740 million, we have now become co-owners of an international airline. After 30 years of privatisation and market forces, this could be called a turning point. Will we finally have the debate on the enterprising state? This debate is being held not only in the Netherlands, but also in Europe and in economic science. This is about what the public interest is and what the role of government is in it. In any case, this step opens up all kinds of opportunities for discussion about the postal, energy, the public bank, the care sector. I think it's important to mark that today too. I thank the rulers for the answers to the actual questions. I would like to focus my contribution today on a large number of political questions that I still have. The first block is about public interest. What exactly, according to the Cabinet, falls under the public interest of Air France-KLM? Does the government agree with GroenLinks that the public interest does not consist solely of the business interests of Air France-KLM and Schiphol? According to the cabinet, noise, air pollution and meeting the Paris climate goals are also under this public interest, and will the cabinet be sending them now that we have an interest in Air France-KLM? Surely this decision cannot in any way be an advance on further growth of Schiphol? Then there are the political questions about the options for steering. How much influence in Air France-KLM has this purchase actually brought to the cabinet? And how does shareholdership relate to the other management options of the cabinet to serve a wider public interest? Then you can think of the distribution of slots at Schiphol Airport, the taxes, the aviation tax and the flight tax, aviation agreements and laws and regulations. How am I supposed to see this stock purchase and the control we get with it in this mix? And is the ultimate goal in this mix that aviation must also contribute to combating climate change? How exactly is the Minister of Finance going to fulfil his role as shareholder? In De Financieele Dagblad, the minister said he wants to be an active shareholder where necessary. But I found the Minister somewhat reluctant in the written response, because in it it seemed as if he was saying that he was going to fill in his shareholdership very reluctantly. He said, "I'm going to encourage the board to run the company as businesslikely as possible." That seems to me to be a rather one-sided approach. It also raises the question of why the government has made such an unorthodox choice to then argue for a business direction. In my opinion, this intervention can only have added value if the government also wants to look beyond the business, purely business-economic approach. Does the cabinet agree with me? Will the Minister, for example, use his formal or informal influence to make the KLM fleet more sustainable? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the equity policy. How does this purchase relate to the 2013 National Government Participation Policy? Why does the Minister first want to wait for the 2020 State Participation Policy Review before looking again at the Note Participation Policy? I remember asking for a review last year. Would it not be a good idea to recognise that the public authorities should once again play a greater role in our economy and society, and should leave less to the free market when it comes to ensuring a public interest? Does the Minister recognise that this purchase is a change of direction in the equity policy of recent years, and that after all these years of liberalisation there seems to have been a change of course? Mr. Chairman. Then the decision itself. It's an unorthodox decision; I told you. It is at the expense of the House's budget right. Mr Nijboer has asked a number of questions about this. I understand the argument about the confidentiality of price sensitive transactions, but that cannot be the only argument. Has there been a fundamental discussion in the cabinet about how this transaction and the public interest involved relate to violating budget law? Has there been any legal or state advice on this matter? The purchase of Air France-KLM shares seems to me to be of a different order than saving system banks. Why was the protocol followed even stricter than the protocol that follows from the De Wit Committee? The chairmen of the political groups were not allowed to be informed. What was the motivation for that? Let me ask you a question about timing. Why the last few weeks? Why not a year ago, or two years ago, or next year? Why was there suddenly urgency to take this unorthodox step? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a somewhat more technical question about the state of the budget and the budget law which we must also discuss. I have seen that 744 million has been posted to the postal sector, but I do not think that the $1 million fee for ABN AMRO is on that post. Then where can I find it? Because it is EMU-relevant. I read in the written answers that 6.9% extra fee was paid for one large block of shares. How much money is that? Is the amount of money relevant to EMU? Where can I find it in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u15	Were you ready, Meneers Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u16	Yes, I am ready and waiting for Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u17	Yeah, okay. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u18	I have a short question for Bartholomeus Adrianus Wilhelmus Snels van GroenLinks and that is the next one. Actually, I've been filing motions for years. Here I come again, it's called "grausen" to buy shares from KLM. At some point I came up with a softer way, because I thought I would get GroenLinks with me. Then in 2016 I filed a motion to examine the possibilities to buy shares, an equal share package as the French.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u19	And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u20	I'm surprised... This is very exciting, Mr. Chairman. I need to get to a climax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u21	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u22	I am surprised that only the Socialist Party, the Animal Party, Mr Van Raan, may not be in favour of that anymore, and 50PLUS have supported that motion and no one else at all. And now I hear everyone saying that liberalisation is good and so on. But that is not clear from the voting day. I'd like to have a response, if you'll allow me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u23	Mr. Snels, how about it, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u24	That was well before I was a Member of Parliament, so I cannot judge exactly what was the argument in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. But I think this indicates that this step has been unorthodox. My group has always considered it important that we have sufficient guidance to curb the growth of aviation and to ensure that it is within the environmental objectives. I understand that the previous group has made the point that you should look at that in particular. In that case, it is not at first obvious to buy Air France-KLM shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u25	I ask that because they are now €12.35 and then €5.47. This means that we have now paid EUR 413 million more. This also means that public debt is now EUR 413 million higher. I think that's a bad thing. I warned you about this at the time. I said at the time about a parliamentary survey: boys, the French continue to be sick and go on, because they are French! They keep eating us the cheese off the baguette. I said that. I also warned in 2006. With the credit crisis I was right, so with the nationalisation of the banks. I have also been right with the energy companies and with the postal market. I said boys, believe me. And everyone was looking like a bump car, except for the Socialist Party, the Party for Animals and 50PLUS and of course the PVV. I therefore believe that this should be included in the parliamentary inquiry, because the Chamber is equally wrong. Let's make that very clear. I have never heard a journalist say or see anything about this either. I think that's outrageous, too. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say the following. I have been a member of the De Wit Committee almost for more than two years. In this sense, the Minister has already done what was our advice at the time, namely that prior information would be provided. The Minister has already fulfilled that. That's what I want to say. Then, at ABN AMRO, it all happened afterwards. But that's a whole different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u26	It is a privilege to be able to debate with Mr Graus for the first time. Now I understand where the term "grauses" comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u27	Mr Van Raan is also ready for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u28	I think it is a very weak and weak story of GroenLinks. On the one hand, we hear the group leader of GroenLinks singing in all keys what we should not all do for the climate. On the other hand, I hear the financial spokesman say: can we use the influence a little now to see how we can make things more sustainable? Like it's a couple of LED lights! This is so contrary to the mission of aviation to reduce CO emissions. So I wonder if Mr Snels can go into that further. It can't be that GroenLinks has a very weak story about the climate at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u29	I do not think Mr Van Raan has listened very carefully to my story. In my view, three quarters of my speech was about what exactly is the public interest. In my opinion, the public interest in the case of aviation is primarily about the contribution that aviation must make to achieving the climate objectives, one, and two in combating air pollution and three in combating nuisance. That is why I said very loudly to the cabinet: this should not be a harbinger of further growth of Schiphol! I think that is what three quarters of my speech was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u30	Then I've got it all wrong. Then I also think that GroenLinks is going to support the motion that is going to instruct the government to allow Air France-KLM, as far as possible, to do the maximum to stay within the 1.5 ̊C temperature increase. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u31	I look forward to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u33	Mr. Chairman. The wonderful feeling of being able to fly back after a long stay abroad with a familiar KLM device, with good food and a super nice crew, with about the best trained kites in the world, and then that music at the landing at Schiphol Airport: we are home again. The Netherlands is proud of the KLM. But of course we don't spend EUR 744 million on blue emotion. This concerns major economic interests for the Netherlands: 32,000 jobs at the KLM. In addition, the entire aviation cluster that has been built over the last 100 years is the hub function. Just say it's the center of the world. According to the cabinet, more than 100,000 Dutch people have well paid jobs. McKinsey, a completely different club, once even counted it on 300,000 jobs. Anyway, that economic engine deserves to be protected. The cabinet acted decisively. It has stood up for the Dutch interests and has made a fist against the unbalanced balance of interests made in Paris. In 2003, we found that these economic interests were best secured by a merger between Air France and KLM. Hence all these agreements about the continuity of KLM as a self-employed company and about the hub function. But our Dutch interests threatened to get snowed under. That is why there is the motion for a resolution - Remco Dijkstra c.s. from June 2018, in which we asked the cabinet to do everything necessary to defend the public interest. It was widely supported. Of course, the VVD has always been critical of the taking and holding of state participations. We believe that, in the case of a good market organization and a good market master, companies are generally doing what is good for the Netherlands. But in this case, it's not right. We are in an uncomfortable relationship to a friendly government that looks very differently at that government role and conducts a very active industrial policy. In this case, the VVD considers it very justifiable that the Netherlands should position itself as a full partner and use the same instruments as the French government. The cabinet has sent out a powerful signal. It believes in the combination Air France-KLM and commits to it. Mr. Chairman. We now have a 14% stake in Air France-KLM. The mutual ministers have expressed the ambition to make the company the leader in Europe, perhaps the number one. Of course, this requires a tight and very business shareholdership. The fixed costs of both Air France and KLM are worryingly high. The flexibility and efficiency of the price fighters in aviation are still far from being achieved by these colossians. How is the Minister of Finance going to make that move with his French colleague? Is there also the courage on the French side to contradict the trade unions and to take the necessary steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u34	The cabinet clearly states that the public interest was at stake here and that it has therefore intervened. The VVD indicates that the culprit really is the French state, because it made sure that the market could not function properly. But what about the other shareholders, such as China Eastern Airlines but also private investors? If these private foreign shareholders ensure that the Dutch interest is equally at stake, should the government not intervene? Is it really just the government intervention on the French side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u35	In this case, yes. It is about a very active policy in France, where the Elysée simply calls directly with Air France-KLM and imposes its will. That is at the expense of ordinary business decisions. I honestly think that we have this Anglo-Saxon shareholder with us if we just go looking for a well-run company that makes good margins and that is lean-and-mean and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u36	It is then noted: should the position of Schiphol and KLM be compromised by a private investor, they will not have to rely on the VVD, and then the public interest of the Netherlands will still be at risk. But when I look at the answers to the written questions, it says that in 2003 there was no consideration of participating at holding level. How would the VVD qualify? Because in 2003 it was just as well known how the French look at this kind of thing? Should we not call it "naïve" from the Minister at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u37	Of course, I wasn't there, at least not in this Chamber. I just think we had a completely different situation back then. We had a distressed airline who hadn't sung it on his own. Sabena went down in Belgium. Swissair went down in Switzerland. You're looking for a solution. Then you don't have it for figuring it out. And don't forget that the merger talks with the English and Italians had already broken. This was just a good sensible step at the time. And we made good agreements on that. Only the problem arose from 2010 when these agreements came to an end. And you know what? I understand your frustration about the process of that time. But we have a problem now, and I can only see that there is now a cabinet that is facing these problems and that has taken the necessary steps. I'm okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u38	Mr Alkaya's second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u39	Finally, Mr President. We do have a situation with which we now have to deal. It would only be really unwise if we did not learn from the mistakes made in 2003. Then I really want to know the following. Does the VVD believe it when the cabinet simply says that there was no consideration at the time to participate at holding level? Does the VVD believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u40	Personally, I believe that. I haven't been there in 2003, and neither have you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u41	Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u42	No, but the least the VVD can do is ask me the question again to the cabinet: wasn't that really considered then? Isn't there any advice at all? Is there no advisory paper at all setting out the advantages and disadvantages of holding participation? Then what was the point of not doing it? Because now there is only one sentence in the written answer. And the least the VVD can do is ask itself the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u43	What I know about that time is that there were aviation treaties back then. As a result, the entire interest could not be transferred to France, and the Netherlands continued to participate in KLM for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister of IenW: how is she currently looking at the hub function of Schiphol? 326 destinations, 70 million passengers and all those jobs: can the Minister indicate how much of them will be left if you lose those large intercontinental flights from KLM to Paris? There is now a press statement from the Dutch and French authorities, but how do you anchor that network? Or even more complicated: how do you anchor the position of Schiphol in KLM's corporate policy? Besides that I am also curious about the following. We have seen two ministers in the picture, one French and one Dutch. But I can also imagine that the Minister of IenW has had contacts with her counterpart. Maybe she can tell us about that, too. Did a press release come out of that too? We didn't see that. Can the Minister indicate to what extent landing rights are still dependent on bilateral agreements between countries? After all, KLM's current suspension is designed to have effective and substantial control in case of emergency. Is that still relevant? Mr. Chairman. What we have built in 100 years has proved vulnerable. It's worth protecting. "A vase," the Prime Minister would say. But in this case, more of a Delft blue cottage that we all have to hold. Because KLM is and remains a bit of all Dutch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u46	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Let me now give the floor... Oh, Mr. Snels has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u47	I have to ask that question, because this is about the definition of "public interest." Because that is why this decision has been taken. And I haven't actually heard the VVD define what the public interest in this transaction is for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u48	"The vase" is the easy answer. No, I thought I'd been pretty clear about it. I was talking about 32,000 jobs at the KLM and above all those 100,000 or perhaps 300,000 jobs that are directly and indirectly related to them. I think it's so ready that you're gonna stand up for that as a government. If that's not a public interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u49	Sure. That's why I find it so scary defined. I recall that last year, in the AA's Participation Policy, we called together for an adaptation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Participation Policy. In any case, the annex on the public interest of Schiphol states that Schiphol must ensure a sustainable, healthy and safe living environment. I haven't heard from the VVD about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u50	No, but that's not why we're building this interest now, I think. It is really about economic interests, but of course it is clear that we want to make Schiphol a better environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u51	That is strange.I think we are making such a big decision, which also violates the budgetary law of the Chamber, because there is a public interest for the Netherlands. This public interest for the Netherlands cannot be an economic interest alone. The VVD itself, I believe, has agreed to the memorandum on participation policy. That note states that the public interest is wider. I hope, however, that the VVD believes that all the instruments available to the cabinet, including participations, should be used to serve that broader public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u52	I would like to refer Mr Snels to the coalition agreement. That's where it's written neatly. We need a better living environment around Schiphol. We are going to do everything in our power to increase the number of flight movements. That is all well and good in the coalition agreement, but that is not what this is about. It is now about the economic importance associated with our airline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u53	I am happy in itself with the direction of the VVD that the State should occasionally use its shareholdership for public interests, but that is not necessarily very liberal. I am therefore curious to see how broad this view is with the VVD, both within the VVD and in relation to other sectors, such as the post office, the ATM delivery, which I talked to you about earlier, SNS, the Volksbank. The Scientific Council for Government Policy has recently issued an interesting report on this. Is that view shared more widely, or is it occasional, and is it just this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u54	First of all, the VVD wants a government that solves problems; let me start with that. We believe in an economy that you set up so that companies and professionals can do their job well and that the government is acting as market master. In an economy like this, you don't have to run a business as a government. But if those rules don't work, we just do what is necessary to defend the Dutch interests. Then that's a last resort. The reality is that we do that once every few years. This isn't new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u55	Mr Van der Linde says that the VVD wants a government that makes it work. No one here is gonna argue that he wants the government to make sure it doesn't work at all. Of course, that's not the point. It is quite a discussion of principle, including in this Parliament. When are you gonna take a state stake? When do you apply regulation? When do you take a small share in a company? I think that in this discussion, in this debate in this case, the VVD has quite a vague answer to the question of how it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u56	I repeat what I said about this in the AO State participations in January. That was literally that state participations are a necessary evil. You choose for urgent reasons and prefer to do so temporarily, you behave like a business shareholder and you keep a little distance. I can only apply that one-on-one to this. It has gone exactly the same with holdings that we have entered into in the past and we really do not need to go back in history for that. I remind Mr Nijboer of the importance of 1.7 billion that we took in KPN in 2001, under a VVD minister. I would also like to remind Mr Nijboer of the acquisition of DAF Trucks in 1995, also under a VVD minister. That is not a change of policy, that is to do what is necessary when it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u57	If we continue this reasoning in the opposite direction, then the NS may fear. It must then be brought to the market immediately. Foreign railway companies have also been brought to the market. So if you think this is a necessary evil and we need to get rid of it as soon as possible, I fear with great fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u58	We drove the N.V. Nederlandsche Spoorwegen in 1938. That was a rescue operation, too. We'll think differently about that too, but okay. We didn't bring them to the fair either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u59	"The State does what it needs to do when it's necessary." Aviation is a sector in the tail of its right to exist in terms of climate. That's the biggest task we've got. Den Uyl, the socialist, had the courage to close the mines in '68. What does the VVD do? It's going to invest in a fossil industry that's out of date. Doesn't the VVD also have a responsibility to a climate and b all the people who work in that sector, to guide them well and to prepare the transition to a future that actually requires less aviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u60	If Mr Van Raan means we're going to do exactly the same thing, but 500 kilometers away, he's gonna lose me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u61	I am triggered by the VVD's remark that the State must do what is necessary at the right time. During the contribution, the VVD indicated that something else happened between 2003 and 2018. I did think it was very fast about the period between 2010 and 2018. That was also a period in which the VVD had full government responsibility. What has changed compared to 2010? What has changed compared to 2011 and so on, which made it necessary to do this procedure at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u62	I think it was my colleague Remco Dijkstra, who is also in the Chamber, who tabled a motion in 2018 requesting that the cabinet do everything possible to secure these public interests. In fact, I think you supported that motion, but I don't have that right now. So we didn't see it coming? Yeah, we did see it coming. However, between 2010 and last year we hoped that it would work in a normal way with the French. And that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u63	So you can see it coming from miles away. So it took eight years for the VVD to realize that something had to be done. As a result, a motion was formulated so broadly that it could go in all directions. However, I believe that the arguments put forward by the VVD regarding employment and the importance of the Dutch aviation sector have not changed in the period 2010-2018. So I ask the VVD why it has not taken that responsibility before and waited until the very last moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u64	Because this is a necessary step and a state participation is the utmost you do. You try all the other ways first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u65	First, in other ways. Then I would like to hear very clearly from the VVD what efforts it has made over the last eight years. What efforts have been made? What did happen? What was done by the VVD? Eight years of government responsibility, but nothing concrete has happened. Just hope that the agreements with the French will be respected? Are you really so naive? Is this how you run the country for eight years? Is that how we deal with Dutch interests? Are they safe in the hands of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u66	Frankly, I think these are all questions you should ask the Minister, not me. I believe that we have been constantly discussing this in all the institutions, even when Mr Ton Elias was still an airman. This has been the subject of constant debates. I have not been there myself, but you know as well as I do that for seven or eight years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u67	Those debates have indeed been conducted in full depth. What I am asking is what concrete steps have been taken, such as the step that has been taken at the moment. Why did we wait eight years to do that? Why has there been a debate for eight years and has there been no progress at all, except that debates are being held and once in a while a VVD chamber member, Mr Elias, is tabling a motion that is so general that you can go in all directions? Very concrete: for eight years VVD. Eight years of VVD! For eight years, you had the opportunity to do something. And for eight years, you haven't done anything. You can admit it and say: we didn't do anything, sorry, I'm sorry; we won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u68	I'm only gonna repeat it once more. I think you should just ask the Minister the question. I think that we have had the debate in full focus and that at the moment that there were no other options, this option came into view. It's a good thing that happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u69	I do have a question for Mr Van der Linde. I was actually shocked by his remark that state participation is a necessary evil. Maybe it's not as common as it sounds to me. But does he call this purchase a "necessary good"? Then where's the difference between right and wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u70	Let me pour it into a metaphor. You're gonna play soccer at a good time. You're on the field and you notice the other side isn't playing football, it's rugby. Then you can do two things. You can stand aside with the rule book and say: you don't do it by the rules. Or you're in the rugby game and you're trying to win, even though you're actually a football player. I think that is exactly what these ministers have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u71	I'm trying to get a little carried away in the answer. I know a little bit more about football than I do about football. The French may know a little more about football than they know about football. But my question was: where do you find the difference between state participations, which, in your opinion, are generally a necessary evil? Is this a necessary asset? Where's the dividing line? What is the difference between good and evil in whether or not state participation is involved? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u72	I think that generally taking part is about the worst way to defend public interests, because there are so many other ways in which you can shape government policies. That is why I say this was the last step. It was also clear what the Minister showed: we are going to try to change governance first; we are going to try to improve public guarantees on the French side, and if all this does not work, we are going to take part. Then it's gonna be a little diplomatic power play, too. Of course, that's what happened. In that respect, it is a necessary evil, but now that we have it, we must use it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u73	You make it even worse for me by calling it not only "a necessary evil" but also "the worst way" and "the very last."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u74	In general.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u75	Imagine it's just special. Then you don't say anything special, but you say it in general. Then you'll make it much worse, won't you? You say "we should never do that in general" when you think this is a good exception. There are still too many examples in recent decades where the Netherlands not only took care of the store but took strategic decisions, either by buying or by selling. I will come back to that later. This is a very important issue: are you taking part or not? Then you shouldn't say: it's actually a necessary evil and the worst. Then, as a Chamber, we ask you whether you really mean that and whether you can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u76	What I am saying is that generally participating is not the right step to regulate public interests. Of course, you do that with laws and regulations or with contracts or with whatever. In this case, it was the only step left. I think it's good that the government is taking this step now. It was the only way to be taken seriously on the French side. I saw last Friday that that was the case. But that's different from taking part in it all the time. There are better tools to regulate public interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u78	Thank you, Mr President. To borrow 744 million euros to take a chance. Apparently, such an amount is easy to release for matters that the government considers important. From a climate point of view and from a financial point of view, this is a completely incomprehensible investment. The cabinet deliberately opts for shares in a fossil airline, while De Nederlandsche Bank notes in the Time for Transition report that the risk of investing in shares in the CO-intensive sectors, including transport, is substantial. So it is not the question whether the shares will be discounted but when. Then we may have lost millions of dollars to the government's totally irresponsible bet on investing in the fossil industry. They will soon be the so-called "stranded assets" of the old fossil economy. Does the Minister take account of these real losses? Why does the State invest such a large amount in a sector at the end of its viable phase? We find that irresponsible. Mr. Chairman. The climate targets require a drastic contraction of the aviation sector: from the roughly 12 megatons by 2030 that the sector wants, to 4 megatons, which is necessary to stay within the 1.5C scenario. This includes the additional impact that CO emissions have at high levels. So what are we talking about? We are talking about a sector that, supported by government policy, wants to grow to 12 megatons, while it can only emit 4 megatons. The Party for Animals is the only party in this Chamber to consistently stick its neck out for the necessary shrinkage and in addition to flight safety also for the impact on the living environment of humans and animals. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen has stated that Schiphol should grow and Lelystad should open. The interests of the aviation sector seem to outweigh those of a stable climate and a sustainable environment for the government. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen is irresponsible in her direction of growth. And Minister Hoekstra is now consciously complicit with the purchase of Air France-KLM shares. At the press conference the ministers drew their most decisive face, and that was quite good for them; that has to be said. But why is such action not visible in Dutch climate policy in any fields or roads? The Minister of Finance will have to acknowledge that with the purchase of the shares of Air France-KLM, a company that earns money by burning fossil fuels, he has taken an interest on behalf of all Dutch people in a company that contributes significantly to global warming. I'd like a response. It is clear from the answers to our questions that the State has taken no interest in using the shrinkage of aviation in the Netherlands or at all to use the increased influence to get Air France-KLM Parisproof. On the contrary, it is aimed at growth and becoming the largest. Becoming the largest means a race to the bottom in the case of aviation. How does the Minister of Finance explain this investment in the fossil sector to the young generation of climate strikers, students and students who see their future in immediate danger? What does the Minister think of the signal function of a government that invests three quarters of a billion dollars in a polluting sector such as aviation? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two further comments on the opaque process. The Minister claims that there has been a long preparation of this purchase and that there was no immediate necessary reason for it. Then why was this the time to take action? It could have waited two weeks. Why come out right before the elections with a rescue operation of "national pride KLM" and why come out only after the elections with the additional climbing measures for Urgenda, which we have been waiting for since 2015? I'd like a response. I would like to make a second point about the process. The Finance spokesmen were given the opportunity to be secretly briefed about the purchase and were thus involved in this deal, which meant that they lost their freedom of speech. They were not allowed, contrary to the protocol, to inform even their group chairman. What good is a protocol if you can deviate from it in such a way that MPs and group chairmen are prisoners and can't do anything? So there has been a time when a number of Members of Parliament had to talk with flour in their mouths, both to the public and to their direct colleagues and their group chairman. It's exactly the back room politics we need to get rid of. Shouldn't protocol be different? I'd like a response. Mr President, concluding. Why specialize in a non-sustainable sector? The government is actually less and less able to speak independently of an industry in which it has itself become a shareholder. It has put itself into a gap by taking an interest in the growth of aviation and emissions on the one hand and the necessary shrinkage on the other. I'd like a response to that new position. In our opinion, the cabinet gambles with money and with the climate. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has made a policy choice that we consider irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u79	I understand that completely from the perspective of the Party for Animals. I just don't think Mr Van Raan is so nice, and I'm not used to him being so used to funerals with colleagues who just do their parliamentary work. We got a call from the minister with a confidential announcement. It's part of the information system. There has been a parliamentary survey. We have had the De Wit committee, which has said how things can be done properly in Parliament. That's what colleagues have done nicely. They're making a trade-off today: for or against. So I don't think it's appropriate for them to take the measure. I ask Mr Van Raan what it is necessary for. He can just be very much against this decision, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u80	Two comments. First of all, I find it really shocking that the PvdA understands from the Party for Animals why we are not here for this. Because the PvdA should also understand from the climate why this is a totally irresponsible purchase. Anyway, that's how she is. Second. What has happened, above all, is that the Minister has made use of a protocol whereby, among other things, colleagues, I understand, have been imprisoned more or less in a situation where they cannot do anything at all. That is undesirable, because that puts colleagues in a position where they have to talk with flour in their mouths and in which they cannot inform their group chairman, in a situation which may not make it necessary at all. It is not so much that I take the measure of colleagues as that I do not think it is right for the Minister to put my colleagues in a situation where they can't do anything, once they have taken the bait. That's the point I was trying to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u81	That is another point. I have also asked the Minister critical questions about the process being followed. I'll share it with you. But I really understood that you said to the colleagues: you are not doing well that you have been there, why did you do that, you put yourself in a position that looked like nothing. That's exactly what you did to myself in the event of interruption. If you did not mean to do so, this has been clarified and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u82	I'm just checking my lines. I don't see that in it, so it's not meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u85	I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u86	Mr. Chairman. The French spoke of an unorthodox robbery. I would like to speak of a failure to agree, and there is not a word of French to that. Many Dutch people have the feeling that the French get a taste of their own dough here. I didn't look up the French version of our Dutch proverb. Before I go into the purchase of the interest in Air France-KLM, I would like to comment on how some predecessors of the current Minister of Finance have acted in relation to companies of great strategic importance to the Netherlands. After all, the future has a long past, including in industrial policy, and I can talk about it. Former Finance Minister Dijsselbloem says in an opinion article in last week's Financial Daily: "If the public interest threatens to come into one hand, it must be in public hands." He points out inevitable monopolies such as Schiphol, TenneT, the railways and the Gasunie, and he all calls them top companies in full public ownership. I would like a response from the Minister to this remark from his predecessor. He also advocates putting PostNL back into state hands: better than a merger between PostNL and Sandd. My question to this minister is: are the lights on orange for market operation? In other words: not always the green light for market forces? The minister of care had concerns about home care, to name but another example. I was talking about previous finance ministers. Oude-VVD Minister of Finance Zalm wanted to divest a minority stake in Schiphol in 2006, but of 49%. It is good to remember that here; it may be. The municipality of Amsterdam has, with a veto, fortunately blocked privatisation, I would say now. I guess salmon could use the profits. No vision, short-term and money-grubbing. Not long after, another Minister of Finance, PvdA'er Wouter Bos, watched the Netherlands waste a large bank, ABN AMRO, on three Musketeers from abroad. That was a denial of the public interest of ABN AMRO. We also bought back part of that company quite quickly. According to 50PLUS, the Dutch Bank and the Ministry of Finance could and should have refused a so-called declaration of no objection, or the green light for the takeover. That was a big and unforgivable blunder. ABN AMRO became a prey. The question to the Minister is whether he may continue to hold the refusal of a declaration of no objection in the future as a heavy weapon. Mr. Chairman. What happened at both Schiphol initially by Minister Zalm and by Minister Bos at ABN AMRO I actually call amateur work on the top shelf and a bad turn from the Ministry of Finance and De Nederlandsche Bank. I can't say otherwise. It takes too long in this short period to go into detail on what is a good policy regarding state participations and the preservation of strategic companies and crown jewels in Dutch hands. The question is always which companies belong to it. Think of ASML and Philips. We also remember the tumult in this Chamber last year at Akzo and Unilever who threatened to fall into foreign hands. Mr. Chairman. I'm on Air France-KLM now. This cabinet has pursued a coherent and well-considered policy in the Air France-KLM case, which has necessarily led, after long and careful consideration, to the purchase of the same interest in Air France-KLM as the French State owns. This cabinet was able to do so partly because of the long preparation by the previous cabinet. That has to be said here. In fact, the Minister has made this quite clear. The question arises as to whether this interest should not have been acquired earlier, which would also have been possible at a much lower price, but that was discussed afterwards. I would ask the Minister first of all to answer the question: it has already been asked this evening why it was not considered at the time to buy shares in the holding company, as we read in the letter in one sentence. I also have the following questions to the Minister. 1. What does the Minister think of Dijsselbloem's view of "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem" - "Dijsselbloem"? 50PLUS also highlighted the limited impact of the package in the written pre-consultation. We believe that more influence on the boards of directors and Commissioners is much more important. In these two councils the strategic decisions are taken and, according to the Minister, increasingly there. If the purchase of the 14% interest can make an important contribution to this, 50PLUS will have a successful operation. The intervention of the Netherlands could also lead to the abandonment of influence by the French state, because more state influence is of course not a recipe for more success of the company, whether this influence comes from the Netherlands, France or both. I'd like a response from the Minister. 2. Another aspect of governance is the question of whether the Netherlands can regain a deputy CEO in the holding company. Let me rephrase the question: how is the influence in the management of the holding company strengthened? The Minister has a choice of two questions to answer. 3. Can the Minister explain again how the acquisition of influence and formal control in the holding company is obtained at the highest level, as I read from the letter? At the end of the letter, I read that the Minister calls the acquisition of the interest a final piece. Should I conclude from this that he does not seek further formal control in the holding company? If it's not the beginning, that's my question. 4. The Minister's letter remains vague about the governance, the state guarantees and the strategy of the holding company. He says: we like to stay in conversation. And, I say, there will be a working group in June. But what indication or, rather, guarantee do we have that the discussions at this new stage will suddenly lead to results? 5. Can the Minister explain in detail what was not done in the letter, and I understand that, but that is all the more reason to ask it now: what was discussed last Friday during the extensive long debate and above all what was agreed, and what results are to be expected? I had a little impression, especially at the press conference, of "been de se trouver ensemble," if you know what I mean. The question I heard here and there was: was this an agreed play? I don't think I should call it that, but there were people who were wondering if it was all agreed as it was that Friday morning. Finally, two more questions. Did you, as a merchant, point out to the French colleague that KLM's commercial and financial outperformance against the weak-performing Air France certainly justifies these wishes on our part? The blue Dutch swan flies better than the French rooster crows. Some of the State guarantees expired in 2010 and some have been extended. But these can be unilaterally cancelled by Air France-KLM with a period of nine months. Is that possibly a time bomb? The cabinet wants to strengthen these guarantees, is in conversation and hopes to take steps in the coming period. How does the Minister intend to achieve this better than before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u87	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u88	Thank you, Madam President. It may seem very annoying over and over again, that 'grausen', which we have just talked about, but I honestly mean it: although I still hate a political party or a Member of Parliament, if it turns out that a Member of Parliament has been right over and over and over again, over and over again, over and over again, then people should once again ring a bell. 'Cause it can't be a coincidence anymore that what I predict comes true every time. I just mentioned it: the postal market, the energy companies, all of them. I mentioned it all. So it doesn't even have to do with aviation alone. I think we should give each other a little more apart from the political party. I'm not looking at who's filing a motion. I'm looking at the operative part. I look at a request and then I advise the group. Then I don't look: oh, that's the asshole of that party; then I don't do it. It just doesn't work that way. We need to look more closely at the content and the national interest. Indeed, in 2016 I already have the Graus motion (31936, nr. 360) tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I have always said: go buy shares; go increase it, certainly equal to that of the French part. That didn't make it over and over again. That motion with the operative, that request, didn't make it. Then I started to fuck her up and it became some kind of PVV-light motion. Then I went to ask: have it examined. I find it really strange that everyone who is suddenly in favour of it did not support it at the time. It was an investigation: "research the possibilities." These ministers cannot help it. I want to make that clear here too, but it was also said bilaterally: no, we are not going to do anything about it. Then I think, "Why not?" You just almost have a concrete plate in front of your head when you know it could happen, don't you? I think that at that time it was also largely party politics. If such a request comes from the PVV, you just don't like to support it, because that would have gotten a lot of publicity and that would have done us a lot of good. You can't do that. You can't do that. Now it could have been done earlier, even with this government, but the explanation given by the Minister of Finance means that I can understand it afterwards. I would also like to congratulate him on the way he has put the story everywhere. I followed him. I think he has brought the story everywhere very well and clearly, for everyone to understand. I also understand that sometimes he stood back against the wall, even when it comes to secrecy, information sensitivity and all that. I understand. I would like to congratulate him on doing exactly what the De Wit Committee asked for, because he informed the Chamber beforehand. That did not happen with ABN AMRO at the time. That happened afterwards. So we should not just sit here all the time pissing vinegar, because good things have happened. I'm happy about that. It was not timely, not too late; I said it. If the cabinet had previously listened to the PVV, the shares are now €12.35 apiece and during filing that motion only €5.47 a month, the purchase price of the shares would not have been 741 million but 328 million. This would have saved the government 413 million euros and would have reduced public debt by 413 million euros. Those are quite a number of sums, which we in the Chamber should all have watched over. So MPs have also failed here. We can't just put everything in box K all the time. That's not fair. Members of parliament have also been sleeping. With all due respect, as was shown by the De Wit Committee, there were also dumb people in the Chamber. We should not always just point to the ministers or the government. I think that's really unfair. I would like a response from the Minister. Why hasn't the Cabinet acquired that share interest in Air France-KLM much earlier? Why hasn't the PVV been listened to before, I'd almost like to say. Then I come to the influence and control. The Dutch State has now acquired almost as high a share stake in Air France-KLM as the French State, but the French State still has twice as high a vote. The French State has 24.4% of the shares compared to the 11.9% held by the Dutch State. I'd like a response to that. The 19th-headed government is still dominated by French. For example, the board counts eleven French versus four Dutch. Does this mean that the Netherlands will have more board members? I would also like to ask the Minister. I'd like a reaction to that. We can remember that Air France and KLM had an open conflict last October. Yes, there have been so many conflicts. That was also about the administration, where there was disagreement about the division of power. If that's gonna be different now, I'm gonna ask the Minister. How will the Minister ensure that the Netherlands gets more board members? And will the Minister further ensure that the Netherlands gets more voting rights? Or does he intend to do nothing from now on, to give the French some rest, now that they have reacted so excitedly again, and to wait until the Netherlands also gets a double vote? To Mr. Alkaya of the SP, I would like to say about this parliamentary survey: I think we need to go much wider. The sale of energy companies is also very wrong. We are instantly dependent on abroad; affordability is at risk, the security of supply of a primary life need when energy is at risk. That is also what we tried to stop, only with the SP. I think we should go much wider. How will the Minister ensure that the commitments made in 2015 are guaranteed? Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has also adopted a motion on this subject, which I myself supported: no transfer of jobs, divisions and the cash, and guaranteeing the state guarantees. Do me a favor, I ask the Minister: let us not, and I have said this many times, let us eat our good Dutch cheese with "sch" cheese from that cork-dry French baguette! We just shouldn't let the French get in our necks, because that really hangs me up to here. I also want to end with a compliment to KLM. I think KLM, together with Coca-Cola and Michelin, is a top company. Yeah, Michelin, too. In terms of marketing and logos and everything, I think that beautiful companies, and our KLM certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u89	You're not allowed to advertise for free.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u90	But I'm allowed to do that here, right? I deliberately also mention a few other companies, otherwise they will blame me again for being a Dutch cheese head. KLM has been around for 14 years - that's what I want to say to Mr. Van Raan; I don't know how many cabins Mrs. Thieme has already flown together for KLM one of the most sustainable airlines in the world. Twelve times they've become number one. And we're trying to punish them here, too. I'm proud of KLM. This is one of the best airlines worldwide, regardless of all the national, social and financial-economic interests that the Siamese twins KLM and Schiphol have. Madam President, that's all I'm gonna say. I assume the Minister will answer everything neatly. Then we're happy again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u91	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u92	Mr. Chairman. Although my group also has questions about the purchase of Air France-KLM shares by the Dutch State, I would nevertheless like to congratulate the directors, Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen and Minister Hoekstra, for this piece of music which they have secretly prepared and successfully completed. The way in which the procedure has been carried out and, ultimately, the intended interest has been secured in a short period of time is evidence of rigorous and thorough preparation. So congratulations for that. That is what the procedure is about. I am also positive about the role of the government in this. Several reports show the important contribution of Schiphol and KLM to the Dutch economy. Air transport and airport activities in and around Schiphol alone represent an added value of EUR 9 billion and 113,000 jobs, as estimated in 2013. The importance of KLM for the hub function of Schiphol has been confirmed several times. That is why the CDA Group understands the inconvenience that has arisen in recent years, when the most important decisions that KLM also took at the holding level were taken. The government of the Netherlands had checked. By buying the shares in Air France-KLM and thus getting a place at the table, this cabinet shows that it stands up for the interests of the Netherlands and all Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. That also raises some questions about the future. What does this mean for the question of whether the public authorities should enter the market more often or should intervene if it threatens to go wrong? For the CDA, the free market has never been sacred. Over the past few decades, we have seen the excesses of unbridled market forces, for example in healthcare, as was rightly pointed out last week by Minister De Jonge van Volksgezondheid. It also reminded me of the motion I tabled in connection with the URENCO screaming. I made the call to find out if a majority stake in URENCO could be acquired in order to safeguard our interests. Does the Minister share my analysis that the government can play a more active role in such scenarios if it is in the Dutch interest, or do I really need to see the purchase of the Air France-KLM as a one-off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u93	It is really nice that the CDA is showing its anti-capitalist side and also advocates more government intervention in sectors where the public interest is really at risk. The concern itself gives you an example, following the example of Minister De Jonge, who said something about it last week. What does the CDA think of the way this was financed? How should we use it in the future? For example, we also see that hospitals fall down and education needs money. Every time the SP comes up with proposals, other parties look at us like we're walking on water, because where's the cover? But if such a public interest is in danger as it is now at Schiphol Airport, then apparently there is money. So we can raise money from the market and just make such an investment in the public interest. Can this also be done in other sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u94	It's possible. I just gave the example of the motion on URENCO, which I believe we have tabled together with your party, with the SP. We ask the government to look closely at these interests and to look carefully at whether it is not wise to ever acquire a share in URENCO. So yes, there are examples to mention, but for the CDA, buying an interest is not the goal. The goal is to defend and defend the interests of the Dutch. When buying shares is the best solution, you do, but you weigh it at a time. It is not a general aim to do so in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u95	No, you don't always have to do it in all cases, but the CDA never did it, in none of the cases. When hospitals collapsed and market forces were just introduced into care, the CDA was also in the front line. May I finish this, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u96	Yeah, yeah. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u97	That is why I find this encouraging. I would like to congratulate Mr Ronnes. It is noted that when the public interest is threatened, it is no longer the budgetary rules that we must abide by. So we no longer need to cut back on education in order to invest in health care. Apparently, at a time when money in the market is almost free, it is possible to attract money from the market and invest in the public sector. I would like the CDA to do so a little more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u98	I would just like to comment on the point that the CDA should do so more often. We are not interested in buying more state participations, purely in order to increase interests. We are concerned that it really serves a purpose. When it serves that purpose, we are in favour of it. Mr Alkaya now says: it is good to hear that the CDA is so in it. I would just like to point out that Martijn van Helvert, for example, said on behalf of the CDA in 2015 that we are very much in favour of buying shares in Air France-KLM. So it's not from yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u99	Same thing. I feel that Mr Ronnes of the CDA is skipping a step. I welcome his story that the market is not sacred and that we need to look at what is necessary to serve public interests. There could be a role for the government in that. But my main question in this debate, and actually broader about market forces and the role of the government, is: what exactly is the definition of the "public interest"? What, according to Mr Ronnes, has been the public interest in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u100	The question is how, as a Dutch state, you can properly defend your interests when you see that KLM and Schiphol are at risk because agreements that have been made in the past are no longer properly applied. In his letter, the Minister explained in detail the options that had been reviewed. He has also indicated how alternative paths have been followed in the past. This has not led to any results. That is why this option has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u101	That answer disappoints me somewhat, because I believe that it is now, as with the VVD, a matter of purely economic interests, both business and economic interests at KLM and at Schiphol, and therefore also of macroeconomic interests. I believe that the debate is also about the residents of Schiphol or the climate and environmental boundaries. The Minister of Finance will find it interesting: I have just added Roel Kuiper's report; the parliamentary inquiry in the Upper House. He puts his finger on the sore spot. This is because, in the case of privatisation as well as in the case of self-determination, there is now no clear definition of the public interest and the impact of measures taken by the government, by the State on citizens or on the residents of Schiphol. I think that needs to be solved first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u102	We can have a very wide-ranging discussion about it. When it comes to the sustainability debate, I can say that at least the CDA itself made the proposal to work with biokerosine, for example, at Schiphol. I think the Minister will be coming to the Chamber shortly with a report on this. It is really not that we do not think this is important at all, but this choice was really about the economic consequences for the Netherlands if this goes wrong in the future. In order to establish that position in the best possible way and to gain that strong position, it has been chosen to acquire the shares in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u104	Finally. It is therefore concluded that, according to the CDA, this measure of the Cabinet has no meaning whatsoever for Dutch aviation and that it remains within the limits of environment and climate. According to the CDA, that has nothing to do with it. That disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u105	It is an implicit consequence that it has something to do with it, because the position of the Netherlands within Air France has become stronger. So that goes for the whole spectrum. We're not ruling that out. But if you look at why this move is so important now, it is really to safeguard those interests of Schiphol and KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u106	In this context, it might be appropriate to consider whether it is in the long term in the interests of climate and the environment to take a serious and deeper look at a variant of the airport Schiphol at sea. What do you think of that? In this discussion should you not only look at Schiphol as it is now, with all the limitations that have already been mentioned here, but is it not also a good idea to look at the variant of Schiphol at sea to alleviate those problems in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u107	It's very interesting what options are coming along here tonight. I think it's completely out of the question for the debate we're having tonight. It's not like the CDA is choosing an airport at sea right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u108	That wasn't my question. If you look at the long-term, it is also a long-term question, do you not think that should be investigated? That's all I asked. My group has always done so with D66 over the last few months. I have already heard from Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen that she will find something to look at. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u109	That is another discussion, I say to Mr Van Rooijen. Really. They are often other spokesmen as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u110	It's about Schiphol, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u111	I think that the President is sending a good signal: it is not the discussion at the moment. We can make a whole list of things we find and say: well, maybe we could take that with us. But that's not going to happen tonight. Tonight's stock purchase is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u113	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a single question about the procedure followed to inform the Chamber. An information protocol has been chosen for non-bank institutions, some of which have deviated due to the price sensitivity of information. This seems to me to be the right course of action. I do, however, have the question to the Minister as to whether the current procedures available are sufficient in his view to act, where appropriate, in relation to the national importance of vital sectors. Should we, as a Chamber with the Cabinet, agree on how to deal with these matters in future, or are the current tools enough for that? And is it necessary to create an information protocol for situations where stocks are purchased for strategic reasons rather than a crisis situation? That's an example. Finally, in the written replies, I read that the Minister considered the letter and the incidental supplementary budget to be an accounting memorandum. However, the written round gives a more detailed picture than the letter showed. Why wasn't the extensive process and method of operation part of the letter? Mr. Chairman. With regard to what this means for the position of the Netherlands in Air France-KLM, we must await the results of the working group set up by the Netherlands and France. Hopefully, this will lead to decisions that have been taken. Has the Minister considered what should happen if this working party fails to reach agreement? Finally, I would like to pay a compliment to ABN AMRO on the purchase and the acquisition of a significant interest in a very short time. The letters and reconstructions show how closely this all listened. If it hadn't been within the short time frame, the operation could have been destroyed. The fact that it has succeeded in such a short time deserves praise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u114	You can see that the carnival is still going on, because the polonaise doesn't stop at the CDA. But I didn't want to disturb her, so I thought I'd wait till the end. I would like to ask Mr Ronnes what this trend of the CDA is about. We have seen Deputy Prime Minister De Jonge, and we are now really hearing a chorus of praise from Mr Hoekstra for other sectors of society, such as the Volksbank. That also falls within your spokesmanship, so that's close. Do you also say: it should not be on the market; that does not really fit in with this time and with the CDA's vision of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u115	As I said in previous debates, we are not ruling anything out, but I am actually giving the same answer as I just gave to Mr Alkaya. Keeping with the government is not an end in itself. The aim is to serve the Dutch population and the Netherlands as a whole best. That's what you have to base your choice on. So I do not think it is right to use the question about the acquisition of shares at Air France-KLM as a kind of blueprint and to say that you should do so everywhere. But once again, the CDA is certainly open to looking at it very widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u116	I don't think anyone, especially the PvdA, would like to see it as a blueprint to take 14% participation everywhere and then hope that the influence will be all right. Of course, that differs from case to case. However, the Scientific Council for Government Policy and, rather, the Wijffels Committee have said: all banks make stock exchange listings, we should not do that again as a society. When I taste the CDA like that, it seems as if there is a different sound in relation to the Volksbank, for example, than with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u117	I would also like to have a substantive debate with you on whether or not to privatise banks. I have only replied that the options are wide open. There is nothing else I can say about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u118	Mr. Alkaya, you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u119	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I certainly have another question. I'm really hopeful about the CDA. I submitted an own-initiative paper on the public bank. The CDA has not yet said that we should or should not do so. That's what they're looking at with an open eye. The statements about market forces in care and today's attitude are also encouraging for the future. I hope that lasts. However, looking backwards, we can see that the Dutch State did not take a share interest in the holding company Air France-KLM in 2003. Does the CDA therefore think that looking back we should get the bottom stone in relation to that mistake and the question why that did not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u120	We can look back, but we have been working for a long time to strengthen the position of the Netherlands vis-à-vis Air France-KLM and especially KLM and Schiphol. Then we can look back to 2003, but I think the question should be right: how can we strengthen our current position towards the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u121	Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u122	Once, but in order to do that properly, we really need to be able to see what mistakes were made in 2003. The cabinet indicated that at the time it was not even considered taking a shareholder interest in the holding company. That happens now, years later, anyway. I wish we had done that in 2003. Does the CDA agree with me that we can at least conduct a parliamentary inquiry to see what mistakes were made then, so that we can now learn from them to do things differently in the future? That's what the CDA is proposing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u123	What we need to do right now is to see how we can strengthen the position of the Netherlands, of the Dutch citizens, when it comes to the importance of Schiphol and KLM. That lies before me in the future and not in 2003.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, these ministers surprised friend and enemy with their press conference on the secret purchase of 60 million shares of Air France-KLM. An emergency hold! An emergency hold of 744 million to safeguard certain public interests. It is a good thing that the cabinet, the first day after the crocus recess, is accountable for this, publicly. Because the spokesperson's state participations, many of which are here, were already surprised by the Minister of Finance in a confidential conversation on 19 February. We were not allowed to share this communication with anyone else, not even with our group chairmen. I understand that confidentiality given the price sensitivity. But the information protocol was already referred to a number of times in response to the De Wit Committee, which then borrowed the cabinet, intended to explicitly ensure parliamentary control in advance. Can the Minister therefore explain why he set the risky precedent by unilaterally amending that protocol at the time of its first application? Today, I would like to look back briefly and clarify the precise argument of the cabinet about this purchase and the follow-up steps that go with it. Last year, the cabinet considered the purchase of Air France-KLM shares unnecessary. The talks with the French were constructive and ongoing. Can the Minister explain his tour on this point? Why did you have to do this now? Could it have happened last year or next year? In order to properly assess future steps, it is important to know how the cabinet assesses the Dutch strategy from 2003 and, perhaps even more importantly, the one from 2010. What else could we have done to prevent this step now? I would also like to hear exactly how the cabinet defines the public interest that justifies the purchase of shares. Because a precise definition of it is important to have the confidence as a Chamber that this was truly a unique action, as the ministers write. The public interest of KLM and Schiphol are treated very easily by the cabinet in the argumentation as one and the same, I think. Can the Minister tell us more about these two interests and how they relate to each other? Because if these interests are no longer in synchronised but contradictory in the future, it is important to know that in order to be able to determine what is given priority. Mr. Chairman. The clear picture of the public interest is also needed to assess when the means, this State participation, have achieved its objective. I understand the cabinet in such a way that the main objective is to ensure the excellent hub position of Schiphol. Air France was able to cancel it unilaterally and was therefore vulnerable. Given the history, I understand that an equal position was necessary to safeguard this interest now. That is why I think the purchase is an understandable step. But for 15 years up to a few weeks ago, at least publicly, the cabinet had a target in which we would get that security without being a shareholder, but with, for example, state guarantees and other contracts in its pocket. Eventually D66 also prefers to see an Air France-KLM without countries as shareholders. So my question is: what is the exit strategy of the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Then the equal position. Are we really going to have two years from now, since the Florange Act has been adopted, exactly the same rights as France? In addition to a government representative, do we get those two board seats in the Board of Directors? The Minister writes in his letter that he wants to be an active shareholder, not passive, not activist, but active. It sounds very noble, but I think it's a very thin line. He wants to talk about the strategy of the holding company and the remuneration of the board, but does not make demands on the sustainability of the company. With this active split, I think we are about to try to get all 150 into the company's cockpit, and that is precisely one of the reasons why state participations are dangerous. How's the secretary gonna manage this? Then there is the first concrete step, which I believe will be a symbol of the implementation of this shareholdership, namely: what is the profile of our government Commissioner? The deadline for the current one on behalf of the Netherlands will end in May. Will his successor, or the one we seek for it, be someone who contributes to a competitive company, or primarily a representative of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u126	I thought it was good said by Mr Sneller: it is a very thin line of active shareholdership. I'd almost say there's no line in it. I'm a little afraid of that. I am in favour of the State, if it has shares, using its influence as well. You know the same thing about me at ABN. I think we should demand less returns. What does Mr Sneller think? Should this position be used, for example, to guide sustainability? It's important, isn't it? That really is the key question for such a company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u127	I would like to know what the primary objective is. In my opinion, the way in which you then shape the shareholdership should be in line with that. I find that too unclear for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u129	Finally, Mr President, a very brief dip in parliamentary history. I believe that the trauma of the RSV survey has been dealt with, but what lessons does the Minister take from it? We have seen over the past 15 years that the aviation market has been developing and that the fate of Air France and KLM, opposite each other and in relation to each other, can be very variable. So who knows what the company's gonna be like in ten years? Then where does the government draw the line? How do we guard that line together? Of course, it is better for these ministers to safeguard our public interests in the near future, so that the spokesmen can be invited back to the Ministry of Finance for a confidential briefing and then call their group chairmen to tell them the good news: the shares Air France-KLM are being sold again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u131	"A good move by the cabinet to take an interest in Air France-KLM. The public interest of KLM annex Schiphol is too great to be left to the French when it comes to it." That was my tweet last week and that's how I'm still in it. However, I do not think that a public investment of 744 million with such a limited text does justice to what has passed over the past week. So a few more words, but I won't finish the six minutes, Mr. President. Don't worry. I think we can say that almost the whole of the Netherlands, except those who were informed, was surprised by the sudden purchase of a substantial share stake in Air France-KLM. That's what others have said before. Not only in the Netherlands, but also in France, as we have noticed over the last few days, they were surprised. The SGP thinks it is a very good move to take 14% shares in Air France-KLM, because the public interest is just great. Let me make that clear again. In reply to the written questions, the figures were also set out neatly. It's 113,000 jobs. We are talking about an added value of 9 billion, a favourable locational environment and good accessibility. So in that respect, it's very good. The VVD itself referred to it before: in recent months we have often heard the VVD about the Netherlands as a Delft blue vase, a fragile and fragile property. Today we are not talking about that Delft blue vase, but, as Mr Van der Linde pointed out, about that Delft blue house, the status symbol of KLM. This also applies: let us be careful about it. 'Cause if you let it slip out of your fingers, it's just gonna be smashed. The fact that we have given KLM out of our hands in the past, for understandable reasons, is a risk. The big question is, of course, whether the Dutch interests are sufficiently protected by the stock package now purchased. EUR 744 million is a lot of money, but we are still only talking about 14% of the shares. If you just look at that numerically, that is a percentage that can easily be removed from the Netherlands. My question is whether the Minister can go into this a little more in depth. And have any other options been considered? I understand that it is not possible, but I think it is good to bring it back to the Chamber once more: has it been considered, for example, to buy KLM back? I think it's good to go public with that. Mr. Chairman. The answer to the written questions refers to State guarantees which can be unilaterally terminated with a period of nine months. My question is whether there are additional guarantees or instruments to protect and safeguard those Dutch interests beyond that nine-month period. I would like to hear more from the ministers. Mr. Chairman. It has been said many times today: it is striking that we are talking about a'state intervention', whereas in recent decades privatisation has actually struck the bell. We have, of course, had state participations recently during the banking credit crisis, but that was in fact quite a different order. So my question is also: if we look at this state participation, this state intervention, this state investment, how does the government view any other state participation? Is this really unique? Or can this happen more often in the future? And is it the intention to hold on to the state participation in Air France-KLM, or to reduce it in some time? What kind of scenarios are there? And do we, as I think D66 just mentioned, also have any exit strategy in mind? Mr. Chairman. I would like to reply briefly to what Mr Graus said about that time. After all, I have examined why we did not support the PVV at the time in something which seems to me to be very logical, namely an investigation into what actually happened. Well, I apprehended my predecessor, and he said, "You know what? We just didn't recognize that transparency of the PVV, and specifically of Mr. Graus." Even professors let that go, so maybe we should have just done that back then. But, well, after all, you always look at it differently. So with what happened tonight, you might have gotten a little bit right, Mr. Graus. Mr. Chairman. Again, as a SGP, this is a strong signal from the government that public interests are being protected. And if state participation is the best route for that, as it turns out, then it should be that route. But with this state participation, we hope that KLM and Schiphol will continue to stand in the Netherlands as a solid house on a solid foundation. Thank you very much. I have provoked something from Mr Graus, I believe!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u132	Thanks for the compliments, but here's what's important. I've known so many professors who are simply wrong. That turned out to be the same with the De Wit Committee. You always have part of the professors say that and another part says sister and stuff. You often just have to rely on your gut, and you don't have to have studied for that. Some people just feel like they can predict something or feel something's going wrong. That doesn't always have to do with a study. I always hate that. My dad went to elementary school for six years, and nothing else. But he was one of the best directors. From a lot of ideas that he worked up as director he worked himself up, later it turned out that other companies took over, while that man had not studied anything at all. He used to say, "Do you know what it's like with the economists and PhD students? They can tell you tomorrow what they did wrong the day before yesterday." We shouldn't always look at those titles like that. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u133	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u134	It was not a question, but I fully agree with Mr Graus: you generally have to do it with a healthy sense of farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u135	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Last week, Minister Hoekstra struck his political battle. Finally, he took care of the public interests of Dutch aviation. In addition to the 5.9% stake in KLM, the Dutch State now acquires a 14% stake in the holding company Air France-KLM. More than EUR 740 million of taxpayers' money was needed for this. Mr. Chairman. The first question. It could have been different if the minister's predecessor had acted differently. Indeed, already in 2015 and 2017 the cabinet considered taking shares in the holding company Air France-KLM. Since this could jeopardise the reappointment of the PvdA Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem as president of the euro group, we are told that this did not happen. The DENK Group wants this to be clarified. Can the Minister explain why, probably for a much lower amount, no interest was taken in Air France-KLM at that time? Was the personal interest of that PvdA minister above the public interest of the Netherlands? Why was the Dutch public interest sold in exchange for the plush? Now that we as a Dutch state are actively buying up shares...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u137	I don't have any part of this myself, but do I have to do this, Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u138	Is that what you decide, Mr. Faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u139	No, I'm asking you, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u140	And I'm asking you, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u141	What's the question, Mr. Faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u142	The question is whether these personal suspicions of someone who cannot defend himself here should be made if the question has already been put in writing and has been explicitly answered with 'that was not the issue'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u143	In any case, it is important that people are aware of this. Not everyone, like Mr Sneller, is so eager to go through those page-long answers. I think it's a very relevant question. It may have cost the taxpayer hundreds of millions of euros extra because we did it at the moment and not a few years ago. That is a very fair question. I do not really understand why Mr Sneller is taking such an offense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u144	I think Mr Kuzu understands. He himself, I suppose, has read the report of that written consultation. It would be a good thing for him simply to say that that question has already been answered and not to repeat the suspicion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u145	I had hoped that, when this news came out, Mr Sneller would have expressed himself so firmly in the same appropriate way, but, yes, he probably did not dare at that time; but that is on his behalf. I shall resume my speech, Mr President. Is the Minister, while we, as a Dutch State, are actively buying shares, prepared to take, for example, a state share in the merger combination PostNL-Sandd? The Dutch postal market is now in danger of being transformed into a private monopoly. In this respect, the interest of private shareholders can very quickly be at odds with the public interests of careful and frequent postal delivery at reasonable rates. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is the Minister prepared, for example, to take a state share in the renewable energy company Eneco? Clearly, if Eneco comes into the hands of Shell, the mother of all multinationals, it will soon be over with the sustainable energy strategy. Shell is not helping, and then the energy transition becomes even more expensive because more subsidies will have to be spent in order to achieve the objectives. Mr. Chairman. The purchase of Air France-KLM shares was a lightning action. If the cabinet is able to act so quickly, can it do so in other cases? The government still has a budget surplus of around EUR 10 billion this year. The cabinet also had a lot of money to save the banks in 2008 and 2013. But hospitals such as the Slotervaart Hospital in Amsterdam and the IJsselmeer Hospital in Lelystad simply let the cabinet go down. The same applies in the past to education and care institutions such as Amarantis and Meavita. What's with the double size? The essence of the problem is that for a long time naivety ruled over market thinking. Reagan and Thatcher started it in the 1980s. It skipped to the Netherlands in the 1990s. Privatisation spaus Hans Wijers, the D66 Minister of Economic Affairs in the 1990s, put everything on sale: mail delivery, telecommunications and cable companies, energy companies, integration, reintegration companies, rail, care, etc. etc. The result? In recent years we have been picking more and more sour grapes from this. Mr President, in any case, private property is not always easy to regulate with just paper agreements and/or legislation. Private parties have their own agenda with their own private interests, which can run counter to public interests. Legislation is slow as a means of steering and private parties can legally oppose its consequences by, for example, demanding damages claims if their private interests are harmed. State ownership can therefore be an important complement to legislation and agreements to safeguard public interests. This has been the starting point of State participation policy since 2007. Mr. Chairman. Back to Air France-KLM. We own as much as the French state now, so we're even now, you'd say. But that is not the case. There is still a long way to go in the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to use his influence as a shareholder to ensure more equal relations in these bodies. It is very naive to think that the paper agreements of 2003 and 2010 could guarantee the great public interests for a long time. These public interests are large and partly contradictory: employment, economic growth and international accessibility, but also flight safety, environment, air quality and noise reduction. The State Assurances, led by VVD-bobo Hans Wiegel, should oversee these arrangements, but little will come of them. I ask the Minister whether he shares this view and whether that might have been a reason to intervene through state ownership. Mr. Chairman. A number of great capitalists have become even more dormantly richer. For how did the State suddenly, within four days, get that jump from 5% to 12.68% of the shares? I see the name of Capital Group appearing. Has Capital Group offered its shares to the Dutch State? Mr. Chairman. I come to the biggest mistake of this cabinet. We do invest in multinationals, but we do not want to invest in the public sector. This cabinet often makes wrong choices. They opt for tax reduction for large companies and the increase of VAT for ordinary, normal Dutch. They opt for the reduction of corporate tax and for an increase in the energy bill for ordinary, normal Dutch. They are the leader of the Malie Tower; the influence of VNO-NCW on the coalition agreement is excessive. On March 20, the voter will finally deal with Rutte, the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. Rutte gets a red card and his majority in the First Chamber is no longer. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of talk about the vase. Rutte's vase is for many people a poison cup where they can no longer drink from. As far as DENK is concerned, Rutte's poison cup may break up into a thousand pieces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u146	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u147	Mr. Chairman. It was the nineties. The Social Democrats had found their third path, which, by the way, was suspiciously similar to neoliberal Anglo-Saxon capitalism. Also in the Netherlands, under the purple cabinets, the first cabinets since 1918 without confessional parties, the public sector was sold out to the market with almost religious fanaticism and for European troops. But already in the year 2000, the Volkskrant looked back on this and wrote: "Until recently, market forces and privatisation were important purple articles of faith. (...) But after some disillusions, the privatisation wave is clearly over its peak and the government seems to have been back away." Mistakeful results and unintended effects became visible. In those few purple years, when the market thinking of management gurus such as Gaebler and Osborne prevailed, many steps have been taken that have proved almost irreversible and that have not necessarily made the Netherlands more beautiful or better. Of course, not every independence, privatisation or market opening was bad, for example, the telecom market, but in a generic sense we lost a lot, especially control. And if something went wrong, the so-called responsible govern ment was still addressed in this Chamber, whether it was about the O.V. chip card or the energy companies, which Mr Graus also mentioned. Directors have been sweating for many hours in box-K, while the cockpit was essentially empty. After all, they were still system responsible but they were long gone. It was in the purple nineties that the Netherlands State sold most of its shares KLM. In 2012 the great Kuiper made a deal with Roel and not with Abraham Kuyper. His parliamentary committee of inquiry, which was at least under his direction, the first and so far only parliamentary committee of inquiry in the First Chamber, rightly asked in its final report the key question whether the government and parliament had sufficiently weighed all the relevant aspects in the wave of privatisation and independence. The Committee stressed in particular the importance of public interests and the need for market surveillance. Mr Snels also mentioned it. Today there is only one party left in this Chamber who still believes that the free market is the answer to everything. Fortunately, the Netherlands has come to its senses. Guarding a public interest is a public task. If public interests are already coordinated through the market, then a strong market master is needed to control the often impaired market. Of course, we also live in geopolitical terms in tilting times, not in a unipolar but in a multipolar world. The capitalist model of the free West after the Second World War with as much free world trade as possible is under pressure from increasingly mercantilistic power blocks. This includes a self-conscious and assertive Dutch government that guarantees its public interests and protects crucial sectors. Yes, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, that should be accompanied by a bit of chauvinism, with a bit of a healthy sense of Orange. The time when D66-minister Brinkhorst made Arie Slob scornful for someone with unhealthy Orange feelings, he did so about fourteen years ago in the debate about the liberalisation and division of our then Dutch energy companies. It is from these larger stories that I am taking the step of Minister Hoekstra to take a greater interest in the holding company Air France-KLM today as a historic step. Madam President. I have a few more questions. The Minister of Finance has indicated that the cabinet has taken these steps to serve the public interest, but he and the Minister of Infrastructure then confine themselves to the, otherwise justified, concern to preserve international destinations from Schiphol. This network of destinations is important for the entrepreneurial environment, but there are also other public interests that we should not forget: the importance of peace, the importance of a clean environment and the importance of well-being for the residents of Schiphol. Has the cabinet taken account of these interests as well? How is the cabinet going to use its increased influence to safeguard these interests as well? Aviation is important to our economy, but it is still one of the most polluting sectors. How does the cabinet reconcile this investment with its commitment to a sustainable society for our children and grandchildren? What will this state purchase mean for the development of aviation in the Netherlands? How does she fit into the aviation vision that Minister van Nieuwenhuizen will come out with later this year? Mr. Chairman. The step taken by the Dutch government indicates that this government is not powerless when it comes to supporting and supporting Dutch business. The coalition agreement also takes that direction. For example, we are working on a longer reflection period for listed companies in hostile takeovers. Apparently buying a share is no longer taboo either. Was this a one-time thrill? Or can we expect any more from this buying minister of finance? Does this provide a new way of looking at public transactions in relation to other vital infrastructures, such as postal services and our 5G network? Are we, like France, also going to introduce the possibility of a loyalty weight in voting rights for shareholders with the long-term perspective in mind? Mr. Chairman. All this must be taken into account and we must continue to strive for a sustainable future, in which the reduction of short flights and the promotion of other forms of transport and innovation in aviation are central. But I have to admit that at this moment the positive feeling prevails that the unique position of Schiphol as a single terminal airport, the KLM blue and the global network of destinations are longer and more secure and will thus remain part of our collective identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u148	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u149	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I can start by indicating how Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen and I would like to divide up the subjects. I do not do that until I have thanked the members of the Chamber for the many questions and comments and for their explicit and here and there more implicit support on this unorthodox dossier. Colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen will say something about the public interest and history in a moment. It will also consider the situation in 2003, the state guarantees and the hub. Finally, it will address climate and environment. Let me tell you about the decision-making on the purchase of the shares, the process, the working methods and the budget. In addition, I will deal with the way in which the shares are acquired, the timing and acquisition of the shares themselves, the relationship with France, the future implementation of the shareholdership and the participation policy in the broad sense. Then there are also a few questions in the category "other."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u151	Mr. Faster, an interruption already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u152	Precisely because it is a matter of state participation and it will soon become a separate responsibility in the cabinet, where the Minister of Finance is the shareholder and the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State has its responsibilities, do you both speak on behalf of the state participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u153	I think we're gonna try to talk on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u154	I understand that, but we're about to discuss the public interest: what do you do from the regulatory side, what do you do from the shareholdership? Those roles have been separated in all insertions. My question is how we are going to conduct this debate in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u155	At least I'll say something about that myself. I propose that Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen say something about it afterwards. If there are any items left that Mr Sneller or others think are in the field of either and perhaps primarily with me, then I will speak again in the first term. If I may agree with Mr Sneller in this way, I shall begin now. Mr. Chairman. Before I start answering the first set of questions in the 'decision-making' category, I would like to emphasise what our objective was. I have said it publicly a number of times, but I would like to repeat it in the Chamber. I have always stressed that this step shows our commitment to the whole company and ends the rest of the discussion that has been persistent in the Netherlands: shouldn't you be doing something else with KLM, shouldn't you pull KLM out? As far as I am concerned, this discussion is definitely over. The first commitment is really to make this company work better. Because let's be honest: the company is not doing well enough, especially if you look at the competition more broadly. The distance to Lufthansa and British Airways, for example, is large. This means that more needs to be done on the Dutch side as well. The company must therefore do better, but this must go hand in hand with ensuring the obvious vital interests of the French State and the obvious vital interests of the Dutch State. This combination has meant that we have taken this step. Mr. Chairman. In the decision-making process, it is good to stress once again that many of the Members have mentioned that as a cabinet we certainly did not go ice over one night. Both the present and the previous cabinet have been working very intensively on this dossier and have looked, among other things, at improving the state guarantees. Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen will say more about it in a moment. It is right that many Members have said that it is vulnerable that it should be unilaterally cancelled with a deadline of nine months. The Cabinets have also looked at governance, the administrative arrangements, where the conclusion must be that if you turn the film back, they are at least eroded. As a final piece, we looked at the possibility of buying shares. I have previously reported to the Chamber that an interdepartmental working group was set up in 2014 to look into the future. The aim was to see how the public interest of the intercontinental destination network could be better guaranteed. All kinds of scenarios have been analysed, but it has also been concluded that the combination of Air France-KLM is good for KLM and that we need to ensure that public interests are more widely guaranteed. On the three points I have just appointed, several directors of several Cabinets have been deployed, not least by Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen, the Prime Minister and myself. But the conclusion must be that, despite the repeated presentation of each of these subjects, also by the two of us personally, we have not got what we have been looking for. That made us decide to do so. Mr President, then to the more recent history. I realise that I am partly repeating what has already been said in the questions, but a number of Members have asked for them again. In 2017, the previous cabinet became increasingly clear that the decision-making took place less than before at the level of the daughters, but much more so at the level of the holding company. The illustration that served as a wake-up call for the previous cabinet was the moment when Air France-KLM entered into strategic cooperation with Delta Airlines and China Eastern. Neither the Dutch government nor KLM were consulted at that time. My predecessor was informed when the decision had been taken, so that he would not be informed through the media. That was the way things were going. That was the wake-up call that made my predecessor active at the time of the discussion on equity participation. Of course I was able to read all that back when I started in October 2017. Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen and I immediately continued to do so. I am truly convinced that it is a good thing to remember this; Mr Graus and others have asked that the previous cabinet made a great effort to improve the situation for the Netherlands and also talked very seriously about buying shares. But the reaction was also: no, later perhaps. That's how you sum it up, I think, and that's how it stayed. I want to correct something else. It is not that, if the previous cabinet had bought shares in the summer of 2017, it would have been much cheaper. Yes, it is true that the course has been very volatile. It has been below €7 and above €14. But in the summer of 2017, it was, just out of my mind, above the €12. So there was a big fluctuation, but it's not like it would have been a bargain at the time. I would like to add immediately that this is not about the exact amount. This is about strategic importance. This is about strategic added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u156	I really think €5.47 is a bargain. That was at the time of my motion. We checked all that out today, so that would have been a real bargain, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u157	I wanted to say that in the summer, when my predecessor talked to the company about acquiring shares, the price was in any case not below the €10 and I even thought above the €12. But Mr Graus is absolutely right: the share has been very volatile and there have been times when the share has been much lower. Then perhaps one last illustration, also towards Mr Snels. Mr Nijboer also asked. Over the past year, the French state has started talking to Accor about the possible rejection of the French interest. We have had to ask ourselves about this on the basis of press reports. On the one hand, we were already talking about our wishes at the time. I do not think that the tradition is that Dutch people generally do not make their wishes sufficiently clear. However, that has not led to us being involved in that process. We were informed about this through the press and then we asked: that is interesting, how exactly? This, of course, has meant that we have only intensified this. In that period I also once sat at the Dutch ambassador's house with the previous chairman of the board of Air France-KLM talking about the broader palette of Dutch wishes, but he left quite soon afterwards. The file stopped again for a while. Mr. Chairman. It was also asked, I thought by Mr Van Rooijen, what the process looked like in that last period. We have, of course, very closely monitored this dossier, even after the summer intervention. We have also been in regular contact with them, but in particular at the beginning of this calendar year we have intensified discussions between the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Infrastructure and myself. We have literally talked about it almost every Friday, about making a choice, about thinking through all the variants and about the pluses and the loves that are evident to all variants. In the end, we made a decision there and thought together about what would then be the route. I shall, of course, say a few words about informing the Chamber in a moment. We presented the decision to the Council of Ministers on 15 February and then came to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u158	Mr Van Rooijen, I will give you the floor in a moment. However, I should like to make a comment on the number of interruptions. The Court has held an extensive first term and it is also important that the questions raised in the first period be answered. Then we should not ask new questions after every sentence, because then we will be here until tomorrow morning. But you don't find that a problem at all, do you, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u159	No. That is true, but I hope I did not give that impression, and I will show it in the following moment. The minister mentioned Delta Airlines and China Eastern and then Accor. Do you have the impression that I shall be asking it prudently, because it is a very sensitive subject that your colleague Le Maire realized and understood, when you were confronted with the anger of the French side, that there was some concern on the Dutch side, I say it carefully about the fact that we had passed Delta and Accor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u160	This point comes back. That is what the Minister said at the beginning, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u161	Let me answer this question right away. What I have tried to do is to understand the Dutch situation. I have also tried to put it into words that this in no way leaves me to say that immediately here in this Chamber was directed against France. On the contrary, this shows our commitment to the company. But it is true that several leaders have struggled with the great desire in the Netherlands, the Cabinet and the Chamber, to see the vital interests better protected and that for a very long time this has not led to the actual improvement of the position. In my view, this is about the prudence that Mr Van Rooijen sought in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u162	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u163	I have not mentioned all the spokesmen in this chapter by name, but many have asked for this decision-making process. Maybe at all: I then informed the Chamber on 19 February. Members have quite rightly indicated that I informed her on behalf of the cabinet, but of course I did not ask for her consent. I also did not think that this was prudent, inappropriate and logical to the Chamber, because we realized that the Chamber would like to reserve all the rights to say something about it in a public debate. That evening we decided "we" was then the Prime Minister, the Minister of IenW and I, the three of us, that the purchase would take place the next day. That's how we agreed to it within the Council of Ministers. We had a mandate with the three of us and the exact moment would be up to us to decide. But it was no coincidence that we started on that Wednesday, because Wednesday was the day of the annual figures. That's a day with a lot of transactions and that means that on such a day you can start buying shares more easily without being directly in sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u164	Short question, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u165	I think we are coming to the real decision-making moment, but I would like to go back to the past and get some clarification on that. The Minister indicated that there have often been talks with the French, that the French have also been given indications that the Netherlands might think about taking an interest in Air France. Then I wonder what the number of people is, for example, at the Ministry of Finance, which has taken part in a possible step that has been prepared over the past two years. Has that been big? Was that a lot of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u166	I find that a complicated question: are there many or few? That seems, by definition, to me to be the one who understands it. However, in a number of steps we have made the group very much smaller. There is only a very small group of people involved in the preparation of the decision of the Council of Ministers. At the Council of Ministers, phones and laptops were dropped. The govern ments also had to sign a declaration there, precisely because of the sensitivity of the course. That's not because I came up with it myself, but because we have checked with various lawyers how we should do this in this complicated dilemma. Because, on the one hand, there was the desire for openness and, on the other hand, the sensitivity, which I come up with, with the Compatibility Act and the Court's information law, which, of course, is taken extremely seriously, but also with regard to the legally sensitive information. That was a much smaller group. Then an even smaller group, which had to sign an additional protocol, was mandated to actually determine the moment. But the actual formal decision-making moment has been that conscious ministerial council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u167	I get all that. The Chamber has also asked questions about this. That's about the information protocol and how it went. But I understand that this has been a much longer process, that the French have also occasionally received signals that this step could be considered, that two ministries have also been involved, so that in that long run ahead to this strategic decision many people were aware, apart from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u168	I don't know if that's true. As I see it, I can only assess it for the Ministry of Finance, it has been a relatively small group that has been working on this until the end. Let me give you a simple example. Of course, not all people who may have previously had to deal with communication about the State participation KLM were involved. That seems to me to be an obvious example. We have also looked at this dossier from the very beginning at how it could be done with as small a group as possible, but we have narrowed it down, also listening to the lawyers. Mr Snels will have noticed that. The minister of EZK was also involved in the preliminary process, but again listening to the urgent advice to keep it very small, we reduced the final decision-making time to three directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u169	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u170	I get all that. I understand that sensitivity, but this has been a very long process, which has already been initiated by the previous Minister of Finance: thinking, doing research, asking for information, letting the French know, and discussing with the Ministry of Infrastructure whether this could be a possibility. It is precisely for this reason that I wonder whether there has not been a moment during the last two years that the cabinet or the previous cabinet thought: perhaps we should be able to inform the Chamber in a certain way, and I do not know exactly how it should be informed that we see this as a possible step without any decision being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u171	On the other hand, we probably should have had a discussion with the Chamber on confidentiality in that consideration. I could imagine that, for example, Mr Snels and others in the Chamber would have found it much more uncomfortable, because then there would have been a much longer period in which the Chamber might have felt heavy to talk about it. That's the balance all the time. Mr. Chairman. I think I'll get to the protocol chapter almost automatically. The cabinet takes the right to information and, of course, the right to the budget of the Chamber extremely seriously. We have thought for a long time about the different variants and weighed them. We have also obtained legal advice on this. As I have just said, the lawyer who first informed us about this has repeatedly emphasised: a very small group. Then we also had a discussion with the national attorney about how we could put that hand in hand with the questions that might exist in the Chamber regarding information. We have also considered variants if the group chairmen inform. We have then said: they are probably less introduced on this dossier and will therefore have questions about the budgetary side or the state's participation side. We have been thinking, for example, about the committee secretly, with the disadvantage that some groups are not in it. That's how we've considered all kinds of variants. I will be the first to acknowledge that the ideal outcome does not exist here. That is why we have finally chosen to stay as close as possible to the De Wit Committee's protocol. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. What I would also like to emphasise, because Mr Van Raan remarked: we did not silence the Chamber, quite the contrary. The period in which the Chamber could not talk about it was exactly as long as that period lasted for the cabinet. I informed the Chamber on that conscious Tuesday. On Wednesday morning we started buying shares and a week later on Tuesday evening I informed all the members of the Chamber who had been informed confidentially the previous week and said: there is now a letter coming to the Chamber, which also relieves you of your obligation of confidentiality, because at 8 p.m. we are going outside. None of the members of the cabinet had the opportunity to discuss this before either. I think we've done that piece really nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u172	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u173	Among other things, Mr Nijboer asked about the De Wit Committee. Maybe I should start by noting that after exploring a lot of variants we have come up with that, because that seems to us to be the most appropriate. It is, of course, true that this protocol, the banking and the non-banking protocol, is actually intended for insurers. But all things considered, we thought that this was probably the best thing to do. Complicatedly, however, my predecessor sent a blue letter to the Chamber on his last day requesting that the protocol be formally adopted. That was because the Court had not yet reached a final decision on one point of the protocol. So we wanted to follow that as closely as possible, but that was also a difficulty on our side. So that's what's in the clerk's presence, for example. Mr Nijboer was right to ask. That's where we've been on this road, but I don't think that was new. I also see the point made by the chairmen of the political groups, but that is precisely because of the enormous importance of the kgi. Mr. Chairman. I should also like to mention one thing in relation to the others who asked for this. Why did that kgi play such a big role here? In some of those other cases, the Chamber was informed at a time that it was "less than 24 hours." Now it only lasted a week, but it could have lasted two weeks or a week and a half longer. This had significantly increased the period, but also significantly increased the risk to the State. So I'm not gonna pretend it's ideal, but this is what we thought, looking at all the variants and weighing all the pluses and minuses, weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u174	I'm sorry to say, but this is just bullshit. During the nationalization of SNS REAAL there have been several sessions with the Chamber for months. That was about a listed company. If that had become known, the savings of the Netherlands would not have been safe, but we could simply consult with the group chairman. It's not like the deadline was shorter. The Minister's argument is therefore not valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u175	No, because that was a different case. We, as a cabinet, made that decision and then I made it clear to the spokesmen too: we could not indicate exactly when we would start. But it was clear that we wouldn't wait weeks, months, for that to happen. I really have to say to Mr Nijboer: we have listened to the advice of lawyers on the kgi. We also wanted to make the period for the Chamber as short as possible, as I just indicated in the direction of Mr Van Raan. All things considered, this was wise. But once again, the De Wit protocol has yet to be formally adopted. Frankly, I would also like to ask the Chamber to do so. I thought Mr Alkaya's suggestion was wise to see if you would not want to anchor this in the CW at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u176	By the way, I don't know what a blue letter from the Cabinet to the Chamber is. I've never seen such a thing, but that aside. Maybe a formal point. Rule 37 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber states: "A closed committee meeting may be held only in the building of the Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u177	Yes, but it wasn't a committee meeting we held either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u178	Has the Chamber been formally informed? Because state law is so precise and because budget law has been violated, that is precisely what is happening. For example, what I myself found quite amazing is that you should know that the Minister has determined which member came from which group. It was a member of the Finance Committee. Mrs Leijten has said this publicly, but Mr Alkaya is the spokesman for state participation in the SP, not Mrs Leijten. In other groups it is the other way round. Mrs De Vries is the spokesman for finance at the VVD, she is Mrs Leijten's counterpart, but Mr Van der Linde is the spokesman for state participation, and he has also indicated that he was there. In short, the cabinet decided only a little on who was informed of which group, and it was not allowed to consult with the group chairman either. That is quite problematic when it comes to big money and such a big decision. That is why a clerk must be present and why a protocol has been drawn up for that purpose. In this way, as a Chamber, we must get our information from the cabinet. Quite a lot of mistakes have been made in the procedure here. I mentioned three in my term, and this is the fourth. I don't think that's very careful of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u179	I really think I have to fight that, because we have looked at the protocol with great emphasis. The protocol has not been formally adopted by the Court. The Court has not reached a conclusion on one of the points of the Protocol. That is why I welcome Mr Alkaya's suggestion. I think we need legislation on how to deal with this very precisely. But also take the point of the spokesmen. You want to keep the group as small as possible. In the end, you come to the conclusion that the financial spokesmen are more obvious than the group chairmen, because they are simply less well implemented. The Finance Committee also has an advantage over the spokesmen IenW, because it can also oversee the budgetary side. That seemed to me to be a prudent consideration, but we have also explored all the variants. I also understand that Mr Nijboer is asking for this. That's right, but we've done it really carefully. Then we looked at the question: what spokesperson, in particular, has gone into this area? But I also spoke with one of the Members about whether they were the most obvious person. I think it is also a matter of caution that I have asked all Members: I have confidential information; do you want to be informed, yes or no? Mr Nijboer will remember that. Next, almost all spokesmen said yes, but not all of them. So that's where I asked for confidentiality and ended the conversation. I then said to the spokesmen who said yes: 'The following is the case. There is a situation where kgi is in play. This means that you will receive more information if you decide not to come tomorrow. Then you will have to sign a statement." I then informed the Chamber, to the best of my knowledge, of all the details of this case. I really believe that, given the landscape as we have found it with the De Wit Committee's protocol and the status in which we have found it, with the committee secretly as an imperfect gremium, with the lack of specific legislation in the CW, after exploring all variants, after consulting the land attorney, after consulting another lawyer, we have done really carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u180	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u181	I agree that the Finance Committee has been informed. That's not my point. My point is that the Minister has decided independently on a number of matters that the De Wit Committee said. He said that the Registry should be present, because then you can discuss which Members of Parliament are most appropriate and then the Minister does not have to decide, and he said that there could be a split with the chairman of the political group. We're still having a discussion on reporting. The Minister is right that this has not yet been established. If the Minister says that there has not been a closed committee meeting in the past, it was in fact in the past; it was just a formal meeting in which the Chamber was formally informed, and it was kept on a list when you informed the group chairman, then the Chamber is apparently not formally informed. Because if that wasn't a closed formal Chamber meeting, as the Minister just indicated, then what is it? A consultation in confidence, invented by the Minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u182	No, it hasn't been an explicit consultation. That is also something I wanted to emphasise. I think that's one of the first things I said in my introduction there. I hope the members of your Chamber recognize that, too. I also indicated why we wanted to follow this path and why we chose, with all the ifs and buts attached to it, for the De Wit Committee's protocol. I also indicated that I wanted to inform the Chamber because the State of the Netherlands, the cabinet, has decided to take an unorthodox step. But the Chamber would, of course, take it for granted! All rights reserved. Given the circumstances, this seemed to us to be the best course of action. I would like to emphasise two more things. One. I really think we'll all be helped if the Chamber formally adopts the De Wit protocol. That hasn't happened yet. That has not happened since October 2017. I would also like to look in dialogue with the Chamber at how we anchor this in the Compatibility Act. Because although I do not agree with Mr Nijboer's shortcomings, I do think we are doing each other a favor by doing this for the future and possibly... Let me rephrase: you never know what the future will bring, but we would need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u183	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u184	Finally, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u185	Finally. The Chamber has a formal relationship with the Cabinet. If it wasn't in a formal committee meeting, I'm not sure what it was. The cabinet has decided to keep even the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate out in the long run to make the club as small as possible. I'll leave that at the expense and risk of the cabinet. I think that's rather... I find that very special, very special. But the Chamber has its own constitutional rights and information. That also means that if you agree that financial spokesmen are informed, they may also consult with the group chairman. That's what the minister took from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u186	I really think I have refuted that second point, but I am going to say a few words about that first one. We have also worked very closely with the Minister for Economic Affairs in this whole process. Of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs was also one of those who wanted to explain this decision to the Council of Ministers. In the end, the Council of Ministers also reached this decision. In choosing the exact timing, we have once again listened to the lawyer who advised us in conjunction with the Land Attorney, the Land Attorney, of course, we have also questioned, precisely on these points, also on the Compatability Act and in the way of informing the Land Attorney, and we have come to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u187	You're never gonna get this ideal, because of course the House's budget law keeps colliding with kgi and so on. I honestly believe that the choices have been made very conscientiously, which, of course, does not mean that it automatically feels good. I will refer to something that we don't normally talk about: the blue letter the Minister now mentions. This means that we have been urged somewhere and that we, as a Chamber, must look at ourselves why we did not do this. I wonder in what context that letter was written. Was that in a transfer file? I think we need to decide for ourselves where that letter landed and why we didn't do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u188	I can check that for the second term. I do not know other than that my predecessor pointed out to the Chamber on his last day that the De Wit Committee's protocol was not formally agreed because you were not yet out as a committee, as he probably wrote it down. There was still a discussion on one point which was apparently jumping in front of the Chamber. There was then no response to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u189	You will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u190	On the details I can possibly come back in second term. In addition, I have a look at the official's lodge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u191	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u192	I too am quite convinced that the Minister has done his best and consulted everyone, but he has nevertheless made a private assessment in which he asked: the spokesperson's finances or the group chairmen. The latter could have been informed, I understand from his words. They may not have been introduced in substance, but they can actually assess what it means politically what is happening. Since an absolute duty of silence has been imposed, you can also imagine anything at all. I wonder what a Member of Parliament or a chairman of a political group could have done. Nothing at all, nothing at all. What exactly was the Minister's intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u193	I just named it. We have also looked at the possibility of informing the group chairmen. We also looked at the variant where you would inform both committees, so the Finance Committee and the IenW Committee. That is, by the way, a variant that we have abandoned quite quickly, because you have thirteen political groups in the Chamber, with more than thirteen spokesmen per committee, although there is a bit of overlap. The explicit advice to us was: don't do that. The same applies to the variant that we have also considered, namely to inform the group chairmen and the financial spokesmen. In that quest, given the urgent legal advice "don't get yourself and the government into trouble, because there is price sensitive information in the game" and the fact that you can't stretch that group indefinitely. On the contrary.... we have come to this conclusion. I think we have weighed that up and I really stand for the judgment, but I admit to Mr Van Raan that it was a judgement call, because others might have come to the conclusion that it should have been the group chairmen. We have chosen the financial spokesmen because we have come to the conclusion that they are the best ones on this dossier and have the best knowledge to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u194	Then we agree that it was a judgement call; it was. But again, the question remains: what could those MPs have done de facto? Nothing at all, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u195	We wanted to inform the Chamber, precisely because this is such a sensitive point that it is, of course, formally difficult to cope with the Compatibility Act. That's uncomfortable. In an earlier phase we have of course also sometimes wondered what the consequences would be if you went through this whole process in complete disclosure. Our conclusion was that this would probably put the company in big trouble and bring what you're aiming for further away rather than closer. It could have been. In theory, you could have sent a letter to the Chamber and said: we intend to acquire 14% in the coming period. It could have been. You'd have done it formally right towards the Chamber. Then you could've had a budget conversation in front of the room. But we were certainly not convinced that then you could have achieved what you intended to achieve, because then everything would have happened with the price, within the company and in the various complex relationships. Of course, you have to take that into account. That is the balance that we have gone through. So we dropped that option quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u197	Mr. Chairman. This was my hink-step-jump through the block protocol, but I think I answered pretty much everything. Mr Ronnes asked why this did not appear in more detail in the questions last week. We'd be happy to. Maybe we should have. We came back from Paris on Friday afternoon. The officials spent the whole weekend working to answer the questions as best they could. So I hope I've made that up to you now. Mr. Chairman. Then there was one question from Mr Snels about the incidental supplementary budget and the budgetary consequences. He's right that the 744 million is a total amount. The observation of the cabinet is that of those 744 million only the transaction costs... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, something's not right here. My phone's ringing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u198	That's not good at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u199	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u200	Surrender!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u201	It was the alarm clock I had to go to bed. Mr. Chairman. I was with Mr Snels and the 744 million. We are convinced that only the transaction costs are relevant to the EMU balance and the rest of the amount is not. They are market-oriented. That is another point that is good to stress: we have done this very heavy expenditure, but that money is not gone. Mr Snels did not argue that either, but there is, of course, property, on the other hand. The value of this can, of course, fluctuate, but it does have value on it. In conclusion, I would like to say to Mr Snels that the final assessment of EMU balance relevance lies with the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u202	It was clear to me from the answers to our questions that at least the fairy for ABN AMRO is EMU-relevant. My very specific question was about the 6.9% that sat on that big stock package as an extra fairy. That's what I was working on, because I saw it in the answers. So that's not in the stock price. It seems to me, therefore, that this should also be done in a different way on the state balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u203	No, our estimate is that's market-based. In that piece a small premium of less than 10% has been paid. This is indeed seen as market-based. But once again, it may be that the CBS will make a different opinion on this later, but we do not expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u204	We'll get an answer to that later. I am curious to see how this is incorporated into the budget. It seems to me that this is also part of the transaction costs. I wonder how high that amount was, because I couldn't find it. It was 6.9% of a very large block of shares. Then all of a sudden you've got a lot more transaction costs than just that "What was it?" 1 million from ABN AMRO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u205	No, there are costs of the transaction itself. This includes the costs of ABN AMRO. There is another piece of pikari there, if I may put it this way, which we pay in France. Those are transaction costs, too. Then there are also the costs of the transaction itself. Of course, there's the part where you could say: you paid exactly the market price. There's a little mark-up on that relatively large piece that we were able to buy on that conscious Tuesday last week. But that's a delta of less than 10%. Given that delta, it is our belief that you should be able to call it market-oriented. I believe, moreover, that this amounts to a million or 25, but I should like to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u206	The minister said the money wasn't gone. That's a good thing, because otherwise, of course, it would be unwise. He did say in the letter that there was a loan on the other hand and that therefore the public debt also increased. May I point out to him that he knows that, but I think it is very spicy that the ING fine that was even higher, 30 million higher, has reduced public debt again? Perhaps the Minister could say something about this, apart from the fact that we do not get a dividend, but that he even gets interest on the loan. So he's got the ING fine he can cover for the sovereign debt, but he's even getting interest on the loan he's about to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u207	I think I should try not to mix these two files. Mr Van Rooijen is right that the interest rate, unlike what you might think at first glance, is of course so low for a triple A country like the Netherlands, that you have to imagine very little of the interest charges here. And that's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u208	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u209	Mr Kuzu asked about the jump. I no longer see Mr Kuzu, but I will answer his question. ABN AMRO was already hired in 2017 for the financial advice on this specific file. That was also the party that was ordered to acquire these shares. What is still good to name is that on Wednesday 20 February the limit of 0.5% was broken. That is relevant, as I said to the Chamber on that conscious Tuesday the previous week, because then a period of two and a half weeks will run, I believe, after which you will have to go public. On Tuesday 26 February, a week after informing the Chamber, the 5% limit was broken at the end of the morning. That too is a relevant fact, because after that you have four days left and then you have to go public. At that time, our conclusion was that this will be a press conference on Monday, yesterday. But then on the same day, precisely because of the large purchases I just referred to, we also went through the 12% limit and at the end of that first day we stood at 12.68%. Even then, we wanted to listen very carefully to the lawyers who advise us. They said: given what has happened now and given what will become public about it, you also have a responsibility towards the company and towards the stability of the system, because it may well be that this will lead to great speculation tomorrow and perhaps to the halting of the course, so our urgent advice is to go outside now. That was Tuesday last week. Mr President, that was Mr Kuzu's question. Then I come to Mr Sneller's question about the relationship with France. It is perhaps good to stress that there was a great deal of contact with the French state, but above all with the company, from various directors of this cabinet and previous cabinets, about our desire to see Dutch interests better safeguarded. I have tried to recognize my French colleague, and so has Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen, that it was uncomfortable, in a very open and good relationship, not to be able to share this in those last two or three weeks. That was just uncomfortable. How we did that, we thought about that in advance. The Prime Minister informed President Macron and then several ministers informed their French colleagues. Of course, I had great need of myself to explain why this story was. I also wanted to emphasise to my French colleague, but I would very much like to repeat this here, that France is a crucial ally of the Netherlands, which we are dealing with a great deal, on this dossier, but on many other economic and other important dossiers, and that we will therefore also have to continue working on that relationship, precisely on a smaller playing field, as a result of the Brexit. That is what Mr Sneller's question is about. Mr Ronnes asked if I had thought about: what if that working group is not established? The good news, as far as I'm concerned, is that we're in it together. We both want these vital interests of both our states to be safeguarded, but we also want that company to perform better. I do not repeat the exact text of that press release, but I say it in my own words, we have agreed that we will look without blinkers, with each other and also talking to the company, to what is sensible, how to think about governance and the conditions for success. By the way, in such a way that it becomes legal again that you do not do what is legally culpable, namely 'acting in concert', I have to say it in English, because that kind of conspiracy is not allowed. I am very pleased that the French have the willingness to look at this with us in this way. Mr Graus, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Sneller asked about the discussion on 1 March. I just indicated that we were both committed to making this a success. I also very much hope that this will work. A high French official and a high Dutch official will form this joint working group together. I am sure that my French colleague and I will be able to discuss this. That brings me to the block on the implementation of shareholdership. This was requested by the SGP, but also by the Labour Party, Mr Kuzu, Mr Bruins and others. I would like to stress that we wanted to acquire the 14%, precisely to have the conversation about everything that is important for the Netherlands. Acquiring this interest is a means and not an end. Mr Sneller said it in different words, but I think this is a very justified conclusion. We did this because we had come to the conclusion that without this step we simply could not guarantee those Dutch interests. There are, of course, formal rights, such as voting rights, the right to information, the right to order. And as a state, you can't just be bought out with this percentage. That is also very important. Where necessary, I'm going to actively fill out that shareholdership, but I'm not going to do it activistly. Some members asked if 14% was enough. Look, no guarantee is for now and for all eternity. I think we all recognise that there are listed Dutch companies with an activist shareholder who had only 1% or 2% in their hands, but who has already been able to fight the governance of a company. I would like to make it quite clear that this is not my commitment, but it does show that, even with a much smaller interest than what we have, you can do something about it. We have chosen precisely to go for parity, or for near parity, i.e. the 14% versus the 14.3%. And so we are going to talk to France about governance, and also about the Dutch representation, without blinkers. I think that's a good and decent way to do it. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Sneller asked if we'd all get in the cockpit together. Well, I've been through a climate cockpit. I didn't want to follow that model here. Mr Alkaya asked: is the public interest safe with other shareholders? He specifically mentioned China Eastern. That is, of course, a strategic partner of Air France-KLM. The same goes for Delta Air Lines. Mr Alkaya knows that there is a lot of traffic from America and Delta to Schiphol. In itself, the relationship with those shareholders is good. But we took this step, of course, because, given the constellation, given the vulnerability of the state guarantees and given the fact that, in our view, erode agreements on governance, the Dutch interest was not sufficiently guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u210	I do not know if it was entrapment to refer to that cockpit of the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u211	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u212	But my point was indeed the sustainability of the fleet. This is not something that the active shareholder interferes with, but rather with the strategy of the company. How are we supposed to distinguish that actively versus activist? And when will it be something the Minister intends to do, and when will it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u213	With that example of what some shareholders are doing with 1% or 2%, I think I wanted to indicate what some activist shareholders are doing, even with a very small interest. I think we have all seen recently how some Dutch companies were very impressed by a very vocal, not to say aggressive, shareholder who had acquired such an interest. Of course, I do not want that to happen. I want to do this in dialogue, I want that company to be able to undertake and I want the vital Dutch interests to be guaranteed. And I don't want to constantly interfere with everything. Also something like the replacement of the fleet seems to me to be a real business decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u214	However, reference was rightly made to how sustainable KLM is. Well, Air France can take steps in that too. And we say that this is something at holding level that is very important for the Netherlands. And we're shareholders. And it suits an active shareholder to increase those demands very high. That is not activist in the vein of that 1-to-2% shareholder, and it fits perfectly within the active shareholdership.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u215	Look, last week my colleague and I already agreed on a relatively rich and complicated basket to discuss and agree on. I really want to stay away from any further commitments that the Dutch State should or should not wish to exercise; I am not doing the company any favors with that. It does not seem prudent to me to do so, certainly not because that would also suggest a very far-reaching influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u216	I don't know if it would suggest that, or if this is just filling out what you want to do with that 14%. But the minister is addressing the problem exactly: that he himself has some ideas about what he wants with that share, while that just provokes... The board's reward will fall in. Well, we know what the next motions will be about that. The company's strategy is, of course, about how you see the future of the aviation sector, how sustainable it is, whether electric flying or not, an efficiency standard, you name it all. So with entering shareholdership and this state participation, that is simply the next discussion, and is it rather arbitrary to say: up to here and no further? That is not sustainable for the longer term, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u217	Yes and no. We can also see that in the case of several of the current state participations, we have entered into very different forms of shareholdership. And let us also acknowledge the following with each other. In this debate, but also in the media, it has been suggested: this is a watershed, we are now entering a new era. I would like to nuance that picture, because of course we had all that interest of 5% in KLM. We had that at first, of course, precisely because of those strategic reasons. It has only been found that this did not provide sufficient guarantees in this case. By the way, we naturally have interests in all kinds of state participations, sometimes for the full hundred percent, sometimes for a smaller percentage. We had an interest in KLM. Through IenW, of course, we talked much wider about aviation, about the people living around, about the climate. These are all very relevant themes. So that is indeed a political conversation, but that is not something I used to act activistly with those 5.9% at KLM. I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u218	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u219	Now the Minister says that that would be activist, when he just said that this is an expression of an active shareholdership, but not in the way he envisages. How am I supposed to weigh this? I agree that there should be no trend break with state participation and the question of how we deal with it. The Minister stresses so strongly that he wants to be an active shareholder, rather than any other form you could choose. So what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u220	I didn't want to put anything in Mr. Sneller's mouth. Of course, it's a sliding scale. But the more you rattle on certain subjects at the gate, the more activist that will be. Mr Sneller will agree with me. I also say that there are all kinds of public interest. That was one of the debates here. The public interest is sometimes specific to the economy. Sometimes it has to do with geopolitics. Sometimes it has to do with safety. This has all kinds of different forms, but think about dike surveillance and make sure that the water stays outside. The public interest has all kinds of forms and forms. The public interest is, of course, quite evident in the importance associated with the hub. It's an economic interest. This does not affect the broader, very relevant social discussion around Schiphol, which has to do with the climate and with residents. But that is quite different from the reason why we have taken this unorthodox step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u221	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u222	But that's an answer to the question. Then it's just that we need to get this company competitive. That's what it's aimed at. So all the things that distract us from that, we're not gonna do as a shareholder. We're going to do that through different regulations. We're working hard on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u223	If Mr Sneller says I should have gotten the answer sooner, I am happy to take that feedback. Mr. Sneller also asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u224	Mr. Alkaya is there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u225	For that little debate with Mr Sneller, the Minister once again, in my view, outlined in a clear and good way why the State has decided to intervene, namely because he is not known in certain decisions and therefore could not guarantee the public interest. That's clear. My question, however, was whether it was decisive that the main shareholder behind this was a government, namely the French State. Or could it also have been a private investor that was at stake in the Dutch public interest and had intervened with the State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u226	I wanted to point out that this was a matter of vital Dutch economic interests. We felt that these interests were not sufficiently heard, even after repeated pressure, primarily by the company. The conversation was also very often held with the company, for example on the state guarantees and governance, also very recently. My predecessor also spoke about the acquisition of shares. The total constellation with the vital Dutch interest has therefore made us want to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u227	I'll try to put it very sharply. Was it decisive that it was a government? Or could it have been a private investor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u228	I said it the way I said it. The constellation as it existed, with a combination of a number of large shareholders, a competitive hub elsewhere, the erosion of governance and the time and time again unable to improve the state guarantees, has led us to conclude as a burden resort, after a lot of talking and after a lot of asking for a discussion on each of the three topics, that there was no other sensible choice for the Dutch State than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u229	I note, therefore, that it was not decisive, because it was a coincidence. And then we have to deal with a lot of other holdings in public interest organisations, in which the shareholders are just private institutions. We are dealing with banks in which shareholders play a problematic role. And then I assume that the government also protects the Dutch public interest, and is not dirty of intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u230	Then Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u231	The outcome of the debate between Mr Sneller and Mr Hoekstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u232	Are you going to sum that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u233	Yes, because basically, the Minister says: the primary public interest of this participation is the economic interest. I think I heard right. Then I'm just gonna ask myself something just in case. In the basket of subjects there is not that other public task that is really much more important in the long term, namely CO emissions and the budget we still have for the Netherlands. Well, I guess that's not in the basket. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u234	But I just wanted to tear two things apart. We all see that in the 21st century several important issues often go hand in hand: the economic importance, the great importance of climate change, and in this case the importance of local residents. So that it plays a role on the wider aviation dossier, of course recognizes everyone, and without a doubt the cabinet. And not for nothing is my colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen extremely busy with that. But here, of course, the vital economic importance of the Netherlands was under pressure. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u235	I understand that, but the vital economic importance in the fossil sector is coming under much more pressure because of the need to reduce CO emissions. So that's actually the overarching interest. In our view, the Minister is ignoring that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u236	Yeah, but it was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u237	Sorry, Minister, but perhaps the following to clarify. So here's what we're talking about. Does the role and responsibility that we now have as shareholder also fit in that the Minister is going to talk to his partner about shrinkage scenarios for aviation? Is that on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u238	I've shown it the way I've shown it. And I would like to remind you that we also separated that in the situation as it was a week ago. Because we never wanted to take advantage of the 5.9% interest in KLM, too, and I think that is really right to have the debate that is indeed relevant. These are Mr Van Raan and I very much agree with each other, but it is part of the broader interpretation of my colleague's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u239	I understand from the Minister that this step, this unusual unorthodox transaction, has now been taken mainly because of the vital economic importance. At the same time, we must look at what the role of the State as shareholder means for the future. And then I want to go back to the note on state participation. It says that public interests can primarily be represented by other instruments such as laws, regulations and concessions..... I assume that the Minister of Infrastructure is going to say something about that......................................................................................................................................................................................... And if I combine that with the public interest as stated in the old note, namely that the public interest of Schiphol is to ensure a sustainable, healthy and safe living environment, then it must be understood that in any case GroenLinks and perhaps other groups want to know how the Minister will continue to play his shareholdership in the future. And this is not just about economic importance. That is important, but how is the Minister going to allow these other interests to play a role as shareholder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u240	I understand the question, but I really do believe that I have answered it. Once again, I can see the wider problem. I also hear clearly the word 'kan' in Mr Snels's list. I hope that I have been able to say enough that we have taken this exceptional step in an exceptional situation, because our conviction has finally become that a vital economic interest is at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u241	I think you've said that very extensively. I notice that we are repeating ourselves a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u242	I had been withdrawn by Mr Snels, so I can finish that. Then I think I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u243	I would, however, need that at a later date, perhaps in the aviation note or in an amended version of the memorandum of understanding that the cabinet is addressing these broader public interests. That is not necessary now, but there is a broader debate to be held. I'd like to feed that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u244	I've come up with the equity policy and the issues that have to do with it, and the discussion about when you're doing something like that. The 5.9% I mentioned. It is not for nothing that I have said in the answer to the parliamentary questions that this is not an atypical formula. I think that all Members have once again seen how many countries actually have quite a percentage, sometimes much larger than ours, in an airline. Mr Ronnes, Mr Alkaya, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins and others asked how you look at the market when you know that the answer is always: ça dépend, it depends on it. One case is simply not the other. The free market is an excellent starting point; I say with emphasis: starting point. All you have to do is recreate history on all kinds of other models that have been tried, and you figure out that you have to start here. There are, however, two important points which Mr Bruins has quite rightly made. As far as I am concerned, the first important comment is to have a strict market master. When I look at my own portfolio, I see two supervisors, DNB and AFM, who are badly needed to ensure prudential supervision and conduct supervision. A market master is therefore crucial. There is a second comment that fits in with it and which has played a decisive role in this case. A number of Members have rightly said: you should not be naive and you must be prepared to defend your silver table. The reality is that we are a small country, with a medium-sized economy, extremely international, trading abroad for centuries, with a number of very important assets, such as Schiphol Airport and the port of Rotterdam. Just a small country is much more vulnerable to losing that kind of assets than much larger countries like Germany or the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u245	I think you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u246	Well, Mr. President, you often think I'm making it too long, but I don't hear that very often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u247	Otherwise, your phone's gonna sign off on you to bed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u248	That joke wasn't entirely serious, Mr. Chairman. If you think I'm ready, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u249	No, no, you can finish your story. I suggest that you do so and that I give Members the opportunity to intervene, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u250	I believe that I have also answered Mr Bruins' question. So we are going to evaluate the participation policy again, but we are not going to change it acutely because of this exceptional case. Mr Bruins also asked for a broader review of all kinds of years, including the purple years. Others also asked for a review of what previous finance ministers have done. My perception is that, in every joint of time, one has always wanted to come to choices. I would like to make it quite clear that my predecessor has also made an extraordinary effort on this issue. He has worked very hard on each of the three themes that have already come along a few times. I wanted to make it clear, also with regard to the suggestions made here and there in the written questions and now in public, that that is the only correct conclusion. Mr Ronnes asked if we would take a majority stake in URENCO. The answer is no. Mr Alkaya asked what this means for the sale of ABN AMRO, the Volksbank and Eneco. This doesn't mean anything. PostNL: idem. Mr Snels asked if I would be prepared to examine the memorandum of understanding earlier. I think we had that debate once or twice. The more we have that debate, the closer it gets. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u251	I shall look at Mr Van der Linde or Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u252	Older people get to go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u253	Well, older...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u254	Maybe I'm a lot older than you think. I have asked the Minister about the content of the shareholdership. He answered that, but I also asked whether we now have the confidence that on the French side there is the courage to defy the unions, to take the hard hits needed to make this company lean and mean, to reduce overhead, to reduce personnel costs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u255	I really believe that the French want the first important issue I have always mentioned, namely ensuring a more competitive, better functioning company, just as much as we do. It won't be that easy, by the way. Mr Van der Linde puts his finger on the sore spot. If you compare the wage costs per employee of this company with those of many competitors in Europe, you can see that they are significantly higher. That's a fact. It is up to the company and, of course, to the board of directors to consider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u256	I had asked how the Minister was going to ensure that the agreements made were secured, which partly refers to the motion by my colleague Mr Dijkstra of the VVD, i.e. that there was no transfer of jobs, divisions and the cash. Apart from that, I would like to mention the state guarantees. I have asked questions about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u257	Perhaps I should have said that explicitly to Mr Graus. The discussions we are about to have on this long list, which has also been published in the press release, give room for each of these things to be implemented. Honestly, it will have become easier to talk about the state guarantees than it has been in the last ten years. At that time, the results of these talks were limited; let me put it this way. We will, of course, indicate to the company that I have done some of the same thing already that we expect to be able to reach other agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u258	What about the guarantee to stop the transfer of jobs? My trust's just gone. I'm sure they're about to try things again, even with that greenhouse. How's the secretary gonna bail that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u259	To be honest, I do not want to address very specific issues. What I want to achieve is that the company becomes more competitive and that we are able to safeguard the vital Dutch interests. This really is about the hub and, of course, about the jobs. That's what we're gonna have to talk to the company about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u260	Finally, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u261	Yeah, finally. It is a widely adopted motion and we have often tabled such motions. We're very worried about it. I think it is important that we can get a commitment or something on that. I have the feeling that the Minister does not consider this to be so important in the first instance, when it is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u262	On the contrary, I wanted to point out that we are going to go through the total palette of administrative arrangements, which are so-called governance and the number of people on the supervisory board. I do not think it is so neat to hit a few picket posts in the Dutch Parliament three days later. That's the caution here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u263	A brief question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u264	I have asked seven questions, which I have also numbered, and I feel that I have not received an answer to any of the seven questions. But perhaps it is because of the nature of the questions that I wanted to formulate prudently. Perhaps the Minister thought they were too direct, perhaps in the French way, to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u265	I honestly thought I answered everything. If Mr Van Rooijen says what things he has missed most, I will reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u266	You're not gonna read it to me again, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u267	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I just wanted to point out that I have clearly asked a number of questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u268	If you just give me a quick indication...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u269	That's a little tricky for me. I wonder if I can't do it in writing otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u270	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u271	Perhaps the Minister has experienced my questions in such a way that he should not say anything about them three days after, as he has just said. If he tells me that that is why he did not answer the questions, then I can still understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u272	You always get messed up in something you don't want to get out of. I honestly thought that many Members have asked similar questions. Slightly less than usual I have each time appointed person for person who has asked the question. I will change that recipe immediately, because I understand that this leads to misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u273	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am also grateful to receive the compliments that have been expressed towards Mr Hoekstra and myself. But I would also like to pass it on to official support. It has not yet been explicitly mentioned. Not only from the Ministry of Finance, Infrastructure and Water State, but also from EZK and AZ have people worked hard in recent times. I think they deserve a compliment, too. A question that was also a bit procedural, is: has the Minister of IenW also had contact with her French colleague? Yes, that's the Minister of Transport, Madame Elisabeth Borne. I've been in regular contact with her and the margin of Transport Councils and what's more. I also informed her about the unorthodox transaction, as has been mentioned a few times today. On the Friday morning that Mr Hoekstra visited his colleague Le Maire, I had telephone contact with Mrs Borne and explained it again. That was a very pleasant conversation, can I tell you, which was very sober and pragmatic. In addition, we have also noted that it is very important that we should like to move forward with the four of us in the process from now on: how do we deal with Air France-KLM together, how do we jointly ensure that this becomes Europe's top airline combination, what is needed for this, how can we help each other on other dossiers at the aerodrome? Let me give you an example. It may not sound familiar to the financial spokesmen, but a lot of airmen, whom I also see here, certainly do. A subject like the Single European Sky is also good for the climate; that will support Mr Van Raan: how to fly more efficiently in Europe and all that sort of thing. We can, of course, work together in Brussels. The same applies to how we deal with the new situation at Air France-KLM. Several members, including Mr Snels, have asked to what extent the decision to buy shares is linked to the decision on the growth of Schiphol. I can be quite clear about that: it has nothing to do with that. Recently, the issue of growth at Schiphol Airport has been discussed again. I referred there to what was included in the coalition agreement, namely that growth at Schiphol Airport is possible, coupled with interference reduction, and that is what the cabinet's focus is on. We are very ported from smarter, quieter and more sustainable aircraft. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. That is of the utmost importance when talking about the public interest. It has just been widely exchanged in the debate with Mr Hoekstra. In this context, jobs, added value for the Dutch economy, good accessibility, network quality and hub function were the main issues at stake. All these terms have already been extensively changed. Then there's the relationship with the climate forecast. Of course, we do a lot about that... I don't know if I'm gonna finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u275	Yeah, maybe it's a good thing you finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u276	The situation that has arisen with the additional shares we now have in Air France-KLM does not add anything, nor does it affect my efforts to make the aviation sector more sustainable. We are working on this at international level, in ICAO, and at European level, in EASA and with colleagues. I am there with my colleague, Mr Snel, you have to be very careful here with all those names in the process of getting flying taxes, preferably harmonised, in Europe. We are doing a great deal about this at our Sustainable Aviation Table, about which I will not be informing the Chamber for too long. We will come up with an ambitious package. This starts with the transport to and from the airport, the airports themselves, the buildings and the transport at the airports, where Schiphol already shows a very good example. The same applies, of course, to the airlines. Mr Graus mentioned it: KLM is certainly not the dirtyest boy in the class. In fact, it just looks really good. The CDA still talked about biokerosin. We have said many times that we think it is really crazy that KLM can only refuel it in Los Angeles and that we can't do anything about it ourselves, so we're definitely looking at what we can do there. At the NLR we try to stimulate everything that can be done about electric flying, even if it is only for the smaller aircraft in the beginning. All the little bits help. We're gonna bet on that for the General Aviation. With my colleague Van Veldhoven, I am of course looking specifically at substitution. You have today adopted a motion in the Chamber concerning the short-distance train. We are talking to both Schiphol and KLM and NS to see how the train product can be improved and how you can arrive at the possibility of booking together, for example. I will just mention one thing: a Mexican who wants to go to Brussels and does so via Amsterdam cannot book that trip in one go from Mexico via NS International or the Thalys. We also specifically look at that kind of thing, at how you can improve that product. We are also, of course, looking at broader aviation and what we can do there. For example, what can you do with the electric taxiing? A large Boeing consumes 200,000 gallons of kerosene a year only to taxi. What if we could make that electric? For example, there are many things we are actively working on. How is that going to translate into that shareholdership, I see Mr Snels thinking. I think he himself is actually making a very good suggestion for that. We are engaged in an extensive participation process around the Aviation Note. That is what we are going to do, by the way, on the advice of the Chamber, Mr Kröger, who has worked most hard on this by means of an EIA plan. If we have all adopted a vision for the future of aviation in the Netherlands, I think it is logical that we should all stick to it and that ownership should not deviate from the policy that we ourselves have in mind with aviation. I think it's really good if we put it in that light a little bit. I also see here that we have a general consultation on sustainable aviation on 4 April. Hopefully I will have been able to send you the letter on climate policy in the aviation sector. I have been asked whether I can indicate what the consequences would be if Schiphol's hub function disappeared and whether there are any examples in Europe where that happened. SEO calculated this and according to that research, the international accessibility of the Netherlands would significantly deteriorate. We can actually all imagine that. 40% of traffic would disappear, and this is also particularly true of intercontinental destinations. As regards other European airports, the same investigation also showed that: Some of you mentioned the examples of Brussels and Sabena, and Zurich and Swissair. Not only did you see that much has gone missing, but also that they have not been able to regain that hub function. In the first five years following the disappearance of the hub function, the number of flights at those airports decreased by an average of 20% to 30%. Then another airline was asked if it could take over KLM's hub network, should KLM drop. It is virtually impossible for another airline to take over KLM's role as a home carrier/hub carrier. There are several reasons for this, including traffic rights. Only EU carriers based in the Netherlands can benefit from the traffic rights in the approximately 130 bilateral aviation conventions that the Netherlands has concluded with third countries. Furthermore, obtaining a comprehensive and coherent package of slots would be a very important reason, as the slots of the vast majority of flights that take place at Schiphol Airport, for example, are in the hands of KLM. With those slots, you get historical rights. If KLM were to go into bankruptcy in a worst-case horror scenario, all these slots would have to be freely distributed by the independent slot coordinator. So you'll never get that strategic concentration together again. Then you would have a huge fragmentation where no airline could get enough slots to get the required amount of optimal connecting flights. Then you talk about investment costs, ground handling facilities and so on, which would make it all very complicated. The question was then asked as to what progress has been made in trying to reconfirm and strengthen the State guarantees. What is still the case with state guarantees? The 2003 State guarantees were valid for five and some for eight years. On the initiative of the Dutch State, the most important state guarantees from 2003 were extended for an indefinite period by a MoU from 2010 but, as some of you have already mentioned, with a notice period of nine months on the French side. The Chamber has already been informed of this in the past. Important guarantees that still apply today are that KLM stays in the Netherlands and has its home base here. KLM holds existing operational and other Dutch permits and is committed to maintaining existing route permits. Air France-KLM operates with a multihub system that is a very crucial thing with Schiphol and Paris Charles de Gaulle as cornerstones. As Mr Hoekstra has just mentioned and we have written in the letter of the Chamber, we are now discussing the strengthening of these state guarantees with Air France-KLM. I very much agree with Mr Hoekstra that we now have a more solid position at the table to talk about this. I hope that we will be able to tell you something more concrete about this sometime in the summer. I cannot anticipate that too much now, because that would disrupt the process. We just need to have these conversations together. How does the cabinet assess the 2003 and 2010 strategy asked Mr Sneller. Couldn't we have done better afterwards? The Dutch State attached conditions to the approval of the merger in 2003 to safeguard the public interests involved in KLM. Those were temporary appointments. On the initiative of the Dutch State, a number were renewed in 2010. We must also be aware that the circumstances at the time were difficult. It was not a luxury position from which KLM entered into the merger. Mr Hoekstra has already outlined this. That was certainly not the upper party; let us put it this way. During the period afterwards it was also found that the guarantees were sufficient in recent years, because the merger with Air France has also brought KLM, Schiphol and the Dutch economy much good. As a ministry, we bring SEO's Network Quality Monitor and State Guarantees to the Chamber every year, and that shows it; that monitor was sent again today. The most obvious example of this is the results of KLM. The merger has generated many additional customers and resulted in a bit of cost savings. That does not alter the fact that both KLM and Air France will have to continue to do so. In recent years we have found that existing agreements offer too little certainty for the future and we simply have too little influence to be able to defend the Dutch interest properly. The example of the accession of Delta Airlines and China Eastern has already been sufficiently exchanged here. Mr Alkaya asked why in 2003 no consideration had been given to taking an interest in the holding company. Are there any notes on that? During that period, as far as we have been able to figure it out, you never know what has been going on in people's minds, of course, not considered. At that time, both France and the Netherlands were thinking more about reducing the share interests in Air France and KLM. That was also agreed upon. France went from 54% to less than 20% and the Netherlands went from 14% of 5.9% in KLM. The social trend was therefore strong in the direction of privatisation. In the context of a WOB request in 2015, we have already examined whether or not an equity interest in the holding company Air France-KLM in 2003 has been investigated. So we haven't been able to find anything on that. One more question from Mr Kuzu. I do not see them in the Chamber anymore, but I shall answer the question. He asked another question about the State Assurances Committee chaired by Mr Wiegel. Why didn't he act to defend interests? Then Mr Kuzu misrepresented what the State Assurances Committee should do, because it should act precisely when the Dutch State brings a case in which the State considers that Air France-KLM does not comply with the agreements. This has not been the case so far, as Air France has complied with these state assurances and complied with them. This is reflected in the fact that the KLM network at Schiphol Airport has grown much stronger than that of Air France at Charles de Gaulle in Paris. So the committee simply did not have to take active action. It does meet every year with representatives from the KLM and Air France-KLM summits to discuss developments. There is therefore an annual report, but no further action has yet been required. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions, as far as I'd gathered them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u277	I thought Mr. Sneller... No? That's what you do in second term? That's what I like to hear. Then Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u278	Thank you for the commitment to include the State as shareholder in the Aviation Note and where it is given in the aviation policy. In fact, the Minister himself gave a very good example following that motion adopted this afternoon to seek alternatives to those short distances. Those talks with KLM, with Schiphol and with the NS, of course, the minister is the shareholder. I actually think that is a good example of how you, as a shareholder, can have discussions with companies to safeguard public interests. I understand that the Minister of Finance is waiting for the policy review for the Note State participations. I can understand that. However, I would ask for the commitment to include this very specific new shareholdership in Air France-KLM in the Aviation Note and in the public interest involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u279	Now Mr. Snels is turning it around a little bit. I can see how he's trying to do that, but I think the right order is as follows. First, we must jointly define the policy in the Aviation Note. I have said that it would be very strange if the shareholder, in this case the Minister of Finance, were to act in a different way than we have all agreed as an aviation policy. But you're talking, for example, about the replacement story with the train versus the plane. That's not what the shareholder does. Mr Hoekstra is not involved in this. I do that from the aviation policy for which I am responsible. The Secretary of State is doing this because of her involvement in the rail file. That is what we are doing from the point of view of policy. I think that's the right order, too. We first determine the policy with each other, and I assume that the shareholder will not suddenly behave quite differently from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u280	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u281	That seems to me to be a rather curious argument, because in the Aviation Paper you will also have to define in the policy the instruments you use for this purpose. The shareholdership could be one of the arguments. So it seems obvious to me to pay attention to this at least. I thought I had that commitment, but it's being withdrawn a little bit, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u282	You keep trying very creatively. No, of course the way you intend to implement the policy is part of the aviation policy. If the result is that the shareholdership is in any way the most appropriate means of doing so, we will of course follow that up, but we will follow that up in the next one. For the time being, we do not have an aviation note saying that, so it would be a little strange if Mr Hoekstra had already been sent out with messages that have not even been established. But the fact that it can be discussed as an instrument seems fine to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u283	A brief question, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u284	We had asked for the aviation conventions in the written preparation. We received the following reply: "The EU has concluded several EU-wide aviation agreements with third countries. Under these conventions, flights and landing rights could be transferred from Schiphol Airport to Paris, as these air transport agreements are more flexible." I'm not going to quote the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u285	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u286	Mr President, I shall be very brief, as you will notice. My question is, how big is the risk? One can then also shift flights among themselves so that Air France takes them from KLM. You can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u287	Indeed, many bilateral aviation conventions now contain EU provisions on ownership and control. With some countries, there are now EU aviation treaties instead of bilateral ones, but there are also important aviation countries that continue to demand national ownership and control. Russia is an example of this. For example, this would make flights to Asia from Schiphol across Russian territory impossible for a foreign company. It is therefore still very important that we maintain these national treaties, because, once again, EU law with EU treaties is not really an alternative to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u288	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u289	These EU treaties with third countries make it possible and allow these shifts to take place. My question is whether that is a risk that the cabinet takes seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u290	We are, of course, constantly looking at all the issues of subsidiarity. We have also looked very closely at this recently in the context of the Brexit. Then you will find that there are also very important national competences at the aerodrome that we would also like to retain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u291	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All in all, it is nice to see that the sacred and naive faith in the market in this Chamber is diminishing. Now that the left, the PVV and the confessional parties are making critical comments on the market, there seems to be a majority in the Chamber for that. That's nice. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the withdrawal of many companies in which the State used to have a share, such as Postbank, PostNL and KLM, did not bring the benefits that Cabinets were expecting at the time;]] [[considers that the public interest should be guaranteed by the State;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent further privatisation of state participations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is necessary to clarify the state of play and the consequences of the merger of KLM with Air France in 2003;]] [[considers that it is necessary for the Lower House to gain an in-depth understanding of the role of the relevant directors, private actors and its own role in this;]] [[Notes that a parliamentary inquiry into the association of KLM with Air France should take place;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of the research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a policy review of the budget article on state participation will not take place until 2020;]] [[Considers that the criteria in the Authority's 2013 Participation Policy should be updated;]] [[calls on the Government to review the State Government's Participation Policy 2013 and to send it to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-5]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-6]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u293	Thank you, Mr President. I have already indicated in the first term that the public interest for the PvdA Group would be leading this discussion. According to the PvdA, there is no doubt about this in terms of employment and the importance of the network, so we will support this participation. As far as the budget law and the information position of the Chamber are concerned, I do think that the cabinet has dealt lightly with these serious matters that lie with the Chamber and that it is not up to the Cabinet to judge them. We've seen a lot of state-law novels. I would not add the blue letter to the Chamber, which the Minister mentioned. I really think this should be better and more careful. The Minister here claimed that there had not been a formal committee meeting, so the Chamber could not have been informed while at the same time claiming that it was. Group chairmen were not allowed to be informed, the Registrar was not present, colleagues were invited who would not otherwise have been invited and vice versa. In short, I think that the Minister has been too guided by lawyers and market lawyers and too little by parliamentary relations. That should be different. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the budget law and the provision of information to the Chamber are basic in our parliamentary system;]] [[Whereas not all parts of the information protocol of the De Wit Committee were followed by the Cabinet;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives has also repeatedly expressed the wish of confidential committee meetings to have a report drawn up;]] [[invites the Cabinet, where appropriate, to closely observe the information protocol and to report on confidential committee meetings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u294	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u295	Do you have a question about the motion, Mr. Van der Linde? Then you may now ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u296	I'm having a bit of a hard time with it. Somehow I would like to support this motion, especially the idea that we are making a report and that the Registrar will be present next time. It is only with Mr Nijboer's statement that the Minister came lightly to this decision that he makes it very difficult for me to support this motion. If Mr Nijboer wants to give it up, I'll have it a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u297	The motion sees future cases, so as far as I am concerned, you do not have to read that in the context of the motion. "Lightful" is not in the motion either. However, I do think that I should have an opinion as a PvdA on the performance and choices of information provision. I have indicated that I see a very big difference between saving a bank, working on it for months and how it has been carried out, also in connection with De Wit Committee, and taking an interest in an airline, which I really think is a different order, which the Chamber has been informed about. I have given this "lightly" as a term. That term is not in the motion. As far as I am concerned, you do not have to endorse this term if you want to support the motion, because that motion is only about future cases. But it is my judgment on how this process went down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u298	Then I'll wait for the Minister's response first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u299	Proceed, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u300	The motion doesn't change anything else. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, following the purchase of shares in Air France-KLM's holding company, a broader discussion on State participation policy is desirable;]] [[Whereas the economy is changing, as is the vision of the role of government;]] [[Whereas, in addition to regulation, state participations can also be an effective method of safeguarding public interests;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to draw up a new memorandum of understanding policy and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u301	When I walked here, I thought: this motion is quite similar to Mr Alkaya's motion. But, of course, I didn't know in advance that he would file it. So maybe we'll put them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u302	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u303	'Cause double motions don't make us all so much progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u304	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u305	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u306	Thank you. Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that this debate, apart from air transport and air France-KLM, was actually about two terms. Firstly, we were talking about economic dogmas and whether we said goodbye to them. Mr Bruins had a wonderful first term, from the history of the Purple years to Roel Kuiper's research in the Upper Chamber. In my view, it has also been a political dogma that market forces are always better than state action, because economic science is based on the fact that the market is not working properly. But I understand that there is some hesitation in the Chamber as to whether we have finally said goodbye to it. I think the debate on economic interests is more important, because that is what the debate is all about. I believe that this is precisely the political debate that we should be having, because economic interests are too narrowly formulated as far as I am concerned. It is about the public interest, and what is a public interest, that is what we should debate here in the Chamber with everything we have in our midst. I believe that this is also quite hesitant. I therefore have the next motion for a resolution on this case. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Government has acquired Air France-KLM shares to serve the public interest;]] [[considers that the public interest consists of more than just the business interests of Air France-KLM and Schiphol and more than just the macroeconomic interests associated with the position of Schiphol;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to the other instruments it has, to use its role as shareholder to help Air France-KLM and Schiphol contribute to the sustainability of our economy and society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Kröger and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u308	Can I have one more... Sorry, Chairman. I was interrupting you. Can I ask one more specific question? I was a little unsatisfied with the answer about the 25 million, that 6.9% fairy that was paid for that big package of shares. Now the Minister does not necessarily have to do so in the second term, but I am curious as to who has been paid, whether that is EMU-relevant and how it will be in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u309	Perhaps that can be done in writing, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u310	Yeah, 'cause 25 million is a pretty good amount anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u311	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u312	Mr. Chairman. We are deciding this evening on an occasional supplementary budget amendment on a special transaction, a transaction that has the full support of the VVD; I would like to repeat that. That makes it no less important that we have this debate and that we talk extensively about all the implications of what is now before us. There are two more points I wanted to zoom in on. One is that information protocol. I told you, it's never gonna be ideal. The Minister had to make a few choices, and I think he has done so with great integrity, and certainly not lightly. I think it is right that we are going to do some homework with each other on this point. This concerns in particular the report and the position of the Registrar and the blue letter that emerged out of nowhere. I hope we can get a copy of that. I have said before that state participation is a necessary evil. It's not your first choice. If you do it, there must be an urgent reason and it should preferably be temporary. You act like a corporate shareholder and you keep a little distance. As far as temporaryity is concerned, I fully understand that the Minister of Finance does not yet want to take a look at a simultaneous exit with the French. But let me put it this way: the VVD likes to keep that perspective in mind, as with all the other state participations. On behalf of my colleague Remco Dijkstra, too, I would like to pay tribute to the officials who have worked on this, of all three departments. I know better than anyone what it's like to work on the hawiewawie deal. And then once you're done and you've opened the champagne, you're gonna have to answer some tough parliamentary questions all weekend. I have an extraordinary respect for that. That's what I want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u313	They're nodding yes, so apparently it's recognizable. Something about champagne? No. Mr Van Rooijen, oh no, Mr Van Raan. It's your turn, Mr. Van Raan, on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the many answers. We have invested in a fossil industry that is in a race to the bottom with a carbon footprint that is not decreasing, but rather increasing and in a sector that is focused on growth. That's what we find an irresponsible purchase at the end of an era. That's why I have three motions. Maybe there'll be time for a few words, but I doubt that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands must make a maximum effort to limit global warming and to meet the Paris Agreement's objective;]] [[noting that the Dutch State has spent EUR 744 million on shares in a polluting airline;]] [[calls on the government to use its influence on Air France-KLM to encourage the company to take its social responsibility and to make a maximum contribution to limiting global warming to a maximum of 1.5 °C,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u315	If I understand correctly, but that goes very quickly when reading such a motion, Mr Van Raan asks the cabinet to use shareholdership to keep Air France and aviation at environmental and climate limits. That was in the motion, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u316	Yeah, I guess you can put it that way. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u317	That means, therefore, that I have just tabled my own motion that Mr Van Raan also ultimately supports this step of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u318	No, it's like this. We find the purchase irresponsible. I explained that. It's a wrong investment. If you have that influence now, you should use it. Have your cake and eat it! I hear that being said in the Chamber, and I can support that. If you do have that shareholdership now, even from a fossil company, wouldn't it be really weird if you didn't use that influence to limit the growth of that sector? That is what the next motion is about, because that is what is needed for the climate. I think GroenLinks agrees with the Party for Animals. GroenLinks is not yet so far away that she would think of shrinking aviation, but she will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u319	The difference is that I'm trying to be consistent. If you instruct the Cabinet to use the shareholdership to serve a public interest, then I think you will have to agree to the fact that the State takes a share in a company. Because then you're consistent and consistent, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u320	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u321	Good. Then the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u322	And I don't agree with it either. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, under unchanged policies, emissions from the aviation sector will increase in the coming years;]] [[Considering the need to reduce emissions from the aviation sector in order to minimise global warming;]] [[Whereas a reduction in the number of flights cannot be excluded in order to achieve sufficient emission reduction;]] [[calls on the Government to use its influence on Air France-KLM to encourage the company to prepare strategically for a scenario in which the aviation sector faces a shrinkage in the number of flights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u323	I think this is a little weird. I say in my speech that KLM has been one of the most sustainable, clean and best airlines for 14 years. They've become 12 times number one in the world. It's kind of weird, isn't it, that we're just gonna turn KLM's thumb screws? I'd say, Mr. Van Raan, go to China and take on those Asians and those camel lands, but just leave KLM out of this. I think this is really crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u324	Yes, again I have not heard a question; at most an incentive to move. But I won't follow this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u325	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u326	But I would also like to take it seriously. Look, the fact that you're first in a whole polluting sector doesn't tell me that much. It still means you're in a polluting sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u327	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u328	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u329	Please continue. Final motion. Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u330	If the sector were so polluting, Mr. Van Raan's fraction wouldn't have flown so much around the world. I don't believe that. I mean, they wouldn't have done that. I know Mrs Thieme, and she would never have done that if such a plane were very polluting. She'd never have flown so much, never.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u331	Again, we are not arguing for a ban or for abolishing that you can fly. In fact, we in the Netherlands will have to deal very carefully with our carbon budget. Flying, there is actually no alternative to that in a number of cases. So that's what we're going to have to reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u332	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u333	Mr President, I also had a compliment I wanted to give, so perhaps I could reserve some time for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch State has spent EUR 744 million on shares in a polluting airline;]] [[calls on the government to release EUR 744 million for additional investment in rail,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35148-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u334	In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, was this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u335	Well, when it comes to compliments, you'll get some extra time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u336	The only positive thing we see from this action, and I quote Mr Van der Linde: do what is necessary when it is necessary, is that the cabinet has shown that it can act very quickly. That's what we're going to need on the upcoming climate issues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u337	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of 50PLUS. I see you don't have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u338	Mr President, I have no motions. I would just like to thank both directors for their great commitment, and yet also for the implicit response more than explicit. 50PLUS fully supports the cabinet's proposal to purchase. After all, it is a very effective way of ensuring that the employment of both the employees of KLM and Schiphol is as secure as possible for the longer term. This also gives me and my group the confidence that this cabinet, not only these two rulers but the whole cabinet, has a constructive foundation, and Mr Hoekstra will certainly recognize this term from a longer past of his party........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u339	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u340	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the two directors for their comprehensive reply. In the first period I also discussed the procedure, with the De Wit Committee. The debate has actually shown that it is necessary for us as a Chamber to do our work, and yet to look very carefully at the procedure and the protocol underlying it. I also understand that the Minister really wants to think about it, and this will apply to both ministers in order to get the experience of this case well incorporated. We're gonna have to pick up that glove. The second point I would like to touch on is the official working group. We still have to get a very clear picture of how we, as a Chamber, will be informed and taken into account in the future, or at least in the developments that are to come. A third, actually final point: the discussion of just about sustainability. I think we should also be proud from the Netherlands when companies at world level are doing their best. And if you see that KLM has been in the top three of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for airlines for 14 years, then we may also appreciate that, instead of considering that as something negative. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u341	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't let it leak: it's possible. But just because of that long preparation, I thought this is what I was thinking. So you've informed the French. You've informed Air France, but the Chamber at no time. Somehow, during that relatively long process, you will find that the information protocol is not sufficient for what you ultimately want to do? Then it is surprising that the last signal given to the Chamber dates from a year and a half ago. If the cabinet had come to the conclusion that it did not work out, we could have picked it up again in the meantime. State participation is a means, not an end. But I still miss the vision of that exit strategy. What's it gonna be? Periodic evaluation seems to me to be lean. I asked if we had the same rights as the French. I assume that the Minister will take as a result of the discussions that we will have two directors and a government commissioner. I also asked what the intentions are with the government commissioner, whom we are now indirectly appointing through the French. I hope that no decision will be taken without the intervention of the Chamber. I also asked how the interests of KLM and Schiphol relate exactly to each other. They are quickly thrown into one pile, in terms of jobs and locational climate. Finally, for me it remains a little confusing what is active exactly. I think that's asking for a lot of hands on the handlebar. That clarification seems welcome to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u343	Thank you, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u344	I'd like the motion on part number one. 9, which I would like to add to Mr Alkaya's motion. Then the Minister doesn't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u345	Since the Nijboer motion (, 31936, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u346	Can I make a textual change for a pure judgment? That is a slight change in the operative part of the motion in part No. 7. This will then be: "Asks the Government to review the Note Participation Policy Government 2013 as soon as possible and to send it to the Chamber this year, and proceed to the order of the day."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u347	The Alkaya motion (, 31936, No ) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer and reads: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a policy review of the budget article on state participation will not take place until 2020;]] [[Considers that the criteria in the Authority's 2013 Participation Policy should be updated;]] [[calls on the Government to review the State Government's Nota Participation Policy 2013 as soon as possible and to send it to the Chamber this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 7 (, 31936).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u348	I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps a few brief comments in advance on the questions that had remained. Mr. Sneller asked about the exit. I find it a little complicated to reflect on that already. I insist that, in my view, we should do this proper process in the coming months, and have exchanged views that these shares are a means but not an end. The hub and employment are, of course, the objectives. Then to the Supervisory Board. That's one of the things on that list. On the one hand, of course, we also want to have exactly that influence, but frankly, I am impressed by the complexity of governance. There's just a lot of people meeting with them. So that is not what we propose to a classic board of Commissioners. So that also raises questions about how to organise it effectively. Towards Mr Snels, I can maintain my first-term reply on the EMU-relevant part. So it is true that we have indeed paid a small mark-up to one party, of which we have bought a very large pick. But because it is common practice, this also applies to market conditions. It is therefore not relevant to the EMU balance. Mr. Chairman. Those were the points I had left. Then I'll make the motions. On a few motions, I would ask Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen to take care of them, at least with your permission, Mr President. The motion in part No. Five, I have to dissuade. It has been put very abruptly. And there is already a good framework for equity policy. The motion in part No. 6 is addressed to the Chamber itself. At least that's how I understood it. The motion in part No. Seven I must advise against. I do understand the wish. I would, however, like to say to Mr Alkaya that I can already share the design of the evaluation with the Chamber on Princess Day 2019. But these are really very long stretches, where preparation alone has taken months. So we're really gonna get out somewhere by 2020. But I'd like to promise him that I'll be part of the million-dollar bill. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 8. I would like to add a few things to that. I was honestly happy that after so much emphasis on that careful consideration, and after weighing all the pluses and minuses of the various variants, I think many in the Chamber have recognized that we have tried to do so with all due care. All the pluses and minuses add up to this. I would like to stress once again that, of course, the cabinet has done so, precisely because we take budget law and information law so seriously. So we not only tested that with lawyers, but we also asked the national attorney to help us turn the kgi interests against state law. So I would really like to insist that we have done so with all due care. I think it would be wise and would help the cabinet if the Chamber also had the final piece of the protocol. That was precisely the issue of reporting. So one of the points Mr Nijboer was critical of is also one of the points where we can help each other for the future. We can still work on that. If I can give it that coloring, and that explanation of how my belief is that we did, then I can go on with much of what's in that motion. To be honest, I would also like to add something to that. In addition to the fact that I would like to leave the opinion on this to the Chamber, I would consider a report from us, the Ministry, to be excellent. But I have, given the state of the crop, not felt entitled to do it. I would also like to add that I would like to talk to the Chamber about whether we can find a way to tackle this problem in the Compatibility Act. Then there will probably be a case that is just another thing, but the more solid it will be for all concerned, precisely because of the care and also because of the great importance that the cabinet attaches to budget law and the obligation to provide information. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 9 has been put together with the above. That's what I answered. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 10. I have just tried to outline that I want to separate the holder's role from the broader sustainability interest, but I also understand that Mr Snels is trying to reconnect these two, so I would ask him to hold the motion for at least some time, because I think he sees with me that we are really going to have a very complicated period with the company, in which a lot is asked about what the shareholder really thinks is important. Then at least we should have arrived at a new Aviation Note and probably a little further along the route, I think, before I take this on my shoulders as well. So I would really like to buy a considerable time and ask Mr Snels to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u350	I'm prepared to do that, so the motion is being held. It would be nice if the Minister could give an indication of when the time has come to hold this debate and present this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u351	Well, that's up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u352	I am told that the aviation note will probably be adopted this year, but given the sensitivity I do not dare to say that the motion will automatically be put to the vote, because I want to take very specific account of the state of the crop in the company. I hope that Mr Snels understands that of me too, because I can only meet him as far as I do now and really not go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u353	And the Chamber is about when the debate takes place or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u354	Sure. So I'll keep the motion on and I'll keep an eye on when there's an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u355	At the request of Mr Snels, I propose his motion (35148, 31936, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u356	Mr President, the motion on item No. 13 is mine, too. Shall I do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u357	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u358	Then I'm gonna move away from the order. The Van Raan motion in part No. 13 is about investing in the railroad. I must advise against this, because additional investment in rail must be balanced in the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u359	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One more question had been asked by Mr Sneller. So I will come back to pulling apart the public interests of KLM and Schiphol. I thought I had gone into that quite extensively, but I would like to say it very clearly once again. The public interest here was, of course, mainly the hub function. Let it be very clear that there is no hub function left without KLM. I specifically mentioned traffic rights, as well as the final regulation and the historical rights that KLM holds. They are so clearly connected, despite the fact that each has its own role in it. Then there's the motions. The Alkaya motion in part No. 6 is about a parliamentary investigation into the merger of KLM and Air France. I would advise against this motion, because the documents have always been shared transparently and the Chamber has been properly informed, both in 2003 and later in 2010. So it's not advisable. Then I come to the Van Raan motion on part No. 11. It calls on the government to use its influence on Air France-KLM to encourage the company to take its social responsibility towards Paris proof, for short. That is the same as what Mr Hoekstra just indicated for the motion on item No. 10. I do not think we should get ahead of that, so I would advise against the motion. Then I come to the Van Raan motion on part No. 12, inviting the government to use its influence on Air France-KLM to encourage the company to prepare strategically for a scenario of shrinkage. It will not surprise Mr Van Raan that I also advise against this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u361	Thank you. You may ask one question, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u362	Madam President, something is not clear to me. I assume Mr. Alkaya made that request for a parliamentary inquiry...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u363	That motion is addressed to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u364	Yes, but the Minister is in favour of transparency, but it is also, of course, about the amounts for which KLM has been squandered. That is what this is all about, as well as the fact that KLM has been sold at all. I think that's what Mr. Alkaya is referring to. It is not so much a question of transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u365	Mr. Alkaya, a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u366	Of course, Mr. Chairman. The bottom stone has to be upstairs. The request has, of course, been made to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u367	Thank you. It's up to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u368	Of course, that's always the case. It's up to you. I merely point out that, as far as we are concerned, the information has always been shared transparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u369	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u370	On the motions tabled and the supplementary supplementary budget Air France-KLM (35148) we will be voting next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State and the officials, who I understand have done a great deal of work to get it done. Of course, I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u371	Since this issue concerns the budget right of the Chamber and we wanted to have this debate today, I can imagine that the First Chamber would like to deal with it quite quickly. I can imagine that we will be voting this week. Since we already have a vote on Thursday... For budgetary expenditure, I think that is so purely national law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-29.u372	I see no one has any objection to that. Then we'll vote on Thursday. I would also like to thank those who have followed this debate in one way or another and close the sitting.
