ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. Let's start with the first question. It is from Mr Wilders to the Minister for Justice and Security and deals with 200 death threats against Mr Wilders. Mr Wilders speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	"We're gonna kill you, cut your head off." "You will be slaughtered." "Inshallah, we'll put 27 bullets in your body and stab you with 27 knives." "We'll butcher you like a pig." "You can count it down to your death, 'cause we're on our way." Mr. Chairman. Hundreds, maybe a thousand more of these kinds of threats have recently been thrown to my head by angry Muslims who want me dead, and we have seen them last year.Sometimes we are really willing to come far from abroad to Holland to stab innocent people with a knife or to look for me to do even worse things. Mr. Chairman. It's unbelievable that these people aren't being tracked down and prosecuted. The Public Prosecutor is now sending me notes saying that the people who want to kill me quote 'probably not living in Europe' and 'there are no concrete indications that they will come to the Netherlands'. And so those hundreds of death threats are being wiped out in the trash by the state's attorney's office. How can the Public Prosecutor know that they won't come to the Netherlands if they don't know who these people are? Mr. Chairman. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Because when I had the honour last August of unfortunately getting a fatwa from a Pakistani clergyman, Mr Khadim Rizvi, who called on Muslims in the Netherlands to kill me in my home, I do believe that a request for legal aid has been made to Pakistan. So I ask the Minister why not now? Why aren't we trying to find out at least the identity of those hundreds of bereaved persons by approaching Instagram, Twitter, Facebook to find out the identity and then making legal aid requests to Pakistan, if only to find out at least the identity of all those bereaved persons? This allows them to be registered, so that a light goes on as soon as they come this way or want to apply for a visa. In this part of the oral questions, therefore, I have only one question to the Minister: are you prepared to instruct the Public Prosecutor to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by making it clear once again that it is of the utmost importance that politicians can function in full freedom in our democracy. Last year I was very attracted to the fact that your Member, Mr Wilders, during the time he announced a cartoon competition, was frequently threatened in a tasteless and often horrible way and was treated through social media. I find this unacceptable in our democracy. The Public Prosecutor, as well as myself, takes every threat to Mr Wilders or to any politician very seriously. I repeat: politicians must be able to function freely in a democracy. The reports of threats here are being dealt with by the Team of Threatened Politicians of the Police Unit The Hague. The Public Prosecutor's Office then assesses whether there is a criminal threat. If so, the report is being processed and that team is actually going to work to track down the sender of the threat. Then every detection will be followed up. And indeed, last year we actually said: we are going to submit an international legal aid application to Pakistan, given the detection indications that were raised there in that very bad issue. What is very frustrating is that we are dealing here with threats via social media, where the public prosecutor and the police are pulling everything out of the closet, but at some point they have to find that they are not getting any further on detection indications and that these are threats that are happening outside the EU. That does not have to be decisive, as Pakistan's example points out, but that may mean that at some point it does not make sense to continue on those particular threats via the Internet, no matter how horrible they are. I would like to say out loud that I find that extremely frustrating, especially for Mr Wilders himself, but he can be sure that we are very committed to defending democratic freedoms for any politician and that this kind of anti-democracy can be pursued.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	So I can't count on that. I wish! 'Cause there's not going to be everything to catch these people and go after their identity. The Minister needs a lot of words to actually say the same thing as the D.A.'s office tells me, which is that he's just not gonna do anything, nothing extra to find out who did this. And you can do something. You can ask Instagram and all the other social media to find out the identity, and you can use those IP addresses in the hand to request Pakistan to at least find out the identity. Why don't you? Why do you accept that the Public Prosecutor's Office is waiting for the people to come to the Netherlands? We saw last year that could go terribly wrong. That is an unacceptable risk, that this minister and the prosecutor run with a lot of innocent Dutchmen. It's not just about me. Mr. Chairman. So more needs to be done. I'm gonna ask the Minister again to find out who did this. It is also not possible for the Public Prosecutor's Office to tackle hard block fries, heroes of the Netherlands, and even make available capacity to take their DNA and that the same Public Prosecutor's Office, for many years, is suing the judge for asking a question about fewer Moroccans, leaving these hundreds of death killers alone and then simply misering those threats in the trash can. What are these priorities? Threats from politicians here, from any party, whether it's my party or the CDA, the SP or anyone else, you should be after them. You can't take one and leave the other alone. That's a disgrace. This is called Minister of Justice, but by not doing everything possible to identify it, this Minister of Justice sends out the message that may threaten it. A big bonus for this minister's Muslim radicals. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. I hope that the bad guys will not take action, because then it can be too late for any random citizen and for myself. It can't be! You can't do that! Then the whole of the Netherlands knows that you, Mr. Secretary, could have done more and should have done more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Last year, in response to the indeed disgusting threats that came to Mr Wilders in connection with the announced cartoon competition, I expressed very openly in all media that we do not accept this and that we will really go after the people who do. I have just explained to you that at some point it is also necessary to look at whether the detection indications are sufficient to carry on. If that's the case, then I really want to assure your Chamber that the Public Prosecutor is on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Let me start by repeating how horrible I am that in this country you are simply not allowed to be politically active. Politicians are threatened. They're not safe their lives. The questions put by Mr Wilders are therefore quite right. My specific question to the Minister is: is it not true that we are not really capable of doing anything at all against everything that is happening online, in the digital world? And two, we simply don't have the capacity to detect this? So is it not just a matter of not having any leads, but also of not having any capacity to do so at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	First of all, on the subject of Mrs Kuik: in a European context, after initial agreements have been made with Internet companies to remove certain content online, we are already very far away from cooperation in criminalisation, so that it is regulated uniformly across the Union. There are certainly still steps to be taken. It is right that Mrs Kikken should touch this point, but I am working with my European colleagues to ensure that our criminal law will receive adequate resources for this in the near future. And then the capacity. There is indeed a capacity in the police and the prosecutor's office to detect and pursue these cases. This also requires that a decision should be taken at any time as to whether the detection indications are such that it really makes sense to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm going into the same point. Members of the PVV Group, in particular Mr Wilders, are threatened by social media. That's the big common denominator here. However, I would like to hear more clearly from the Minister what his agenda is and what timetable he envisages in order to make the social media much more aware of their responsibility because of the threats that are taking place there. Because Facebook, Instagram and so on are of course not above the law, but it sometimes starts to look a bit like that. That's what worries us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	Let me start by saying that we must realise that the providers and the social media are not limited by the Netherlands. So you will have to deal with this at European level. As I have just said, we are now quite far away from regulation at European level which limits freedoms in a certain way. Of course, we also run into discussions with parties who think that you should stay away from that and that it is freedom of expression. My personal view is that we need to tackle this type of threat through social media with all possible means and that social media itself should play an active, cleansing role in it, if I may call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	A second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	In addition. The interpretation so far given publicly by the Public Prosecutor about the lack of further action is rather modest. Is there no more explanation by the Public Prosecutor as to why no action has been taken and why more requests for legal aid have not been made? On such an important subject, which touches the heart of our democracy, it appears to be a rather tricky interpretation. Is that better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	The word "karig" is a value judgment I can't go along with. The Public Prosecutor's Office must at some point justify, and has done so, why, in certain cases, however frustrating, there is insufficient evidence of detection. That's a trade-off that the state's attorney's office is making, which I shouldn't get involved in as a minister. But, of course, there must be sufficient detection and evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	For so many years I have seen that Mr Wilders has so many guards, even here in the building, even here in this room. I also hate to hear what he's gotten into his head with threats. If someone makes such a threat, even if it is outside Europe, it leaves all sorts of traces. They're digital threats. I wonder, where's the D.A.'s office going? Is that with the Internet companies? Is that with those countries? I cannot imagine that the secret services cannot play a role here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	At some point the trail is dead for all kinds of reasons, that is to say it cannot be found with the perpetrators of these actions. Hence the in itself understandable question of some of your members about the facilitators, the providers, the social media companies. In the area of terrorist content, we are now very far away. In the area of this type of content, I believe that we should reach better agreements in the foreseeable future, given the scope, the dissemination and let us be honest: the abuse of these social media too. At some point, the Public Prosecutor's Office in conclave with the police must conclude that they do not move forward on the issue of determining the offendership, or that they do not have sufficient further evidence. That is a technical decision which I cannot state on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	A lot of people, aldermen, mayors and others, are being threatened in a terrible way. Fortunately, it is possible for Mr Wilders to appeal to the Minister. Someone else is left with only Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is important that Mr Wilders has been able to do so here. But my question is how many other people are so easily told that there is no detection, especially when it comes to those digital threats. Can the Minister make that clear in another letter to the Chamber? I also see, and I get that back from other victims, that it is too easy, that they almost receive a message by return mail that there is no trace. As far as we're concerned, we really need a tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	In that letter, which I hereby undertake, I will show you what that looks like. I will also point out that it is not as short as it has just been suggested that people receive a simple note: we have no indication. Well, there's definitely a prior consideration to detectives or detectives. But I'll give you that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	How much indication do you want, if you're threatened with death via social media, you'd say. I think we're able to take people off their beds based on an IP address in our own country. That happens in the short term. That should be possible in Pakistan, you might say. My question to the Minister is whether he has done the best he can, in the cases we are talking about now, in Pakistan, because I think that is what it is all about, and that is what it is all about. They can help or support us in that, can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	A specific question, a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	The D.A., which I'm responsible for, is pulling everything out of the closet, even in such a case with Pakistan, to help the court find out, so just the prosecution. I cannot go into the details of that process, because then I am going to talk about an individual case. That is a process that I cannot go into in detail here, because then I am going to talk about an individual matter and I am not allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	You know, letting people know you're on to them sometimes helps a lot. I agree with the Minister that finding justice is important, but prior to that you also have a research trail and can indeed show people that you are conducting an investigation. Then you'll light them off their beds, and in this case it'll be far overseas and outside Europe. I understand all that, but let me ask you this: perhaps the Minister in the letter he sends can also comment on how we deal with this in countries such as Pakistan, but that also applies to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	On the contrary, I cannot go into what is happening in individual cases. And on the question of bed-lighting: if we make a request for legal aid, we will do so to the investigating authorities on the ground. And then, of course, it is up to the regulations and directives of theirs to determine how they are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yes, but Mr Drost also asked this in a general sense, not only in Pakistan but also in other countries, and whether this can be addressed in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	But then I have to tell all the countries of the world how to deal with requests for legal aid. Well, if that's what you want, it'll take a little longer for that letter to arrive. I think that is a very general request, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Drost may explain it, because I think this is a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	...very general.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	No, that wasn't so common. I don't count this as a question, Mr. Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this is about countries from which death threats are made to politicians residing in the Netherlands. That's what it's about. And that, I think, is rather limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	But it is precisely not the countries where we see these threats coming from, where we go after, for example, through such an international request for legal aid. I think that I will then go into the individual case when I tell them what is being done on the ground, at least until the trial takes place. And I don't want to go in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	I do not think the argument that we are too much involved in an individual case is entirely justified here. That would be the case if there was one threat and a review of how it is being followed, but if there is a large pattern of hundreds of threats and no action has been taken on them, then there is something structural. I thought it was a good point from Mr Wilders: how do you know that the odds are low, that people don't take action if you don't know exactly where the threat comes from? Then you can't make an assessment. There are insufficient detection indications, but the point is, of course, to what extent there is a sufficient search for those detection indications. That's what everybody's worried about, I guess. I'm stuck with those IP addresses, too. Is everyone really trying to cover everything up? Or are they there, but are there not enough resources to find out exactly? How, for example, will there be cooperation with organisations such as INTERPOL?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	There is extensive cooperation with INTERPOL, as well as with Europol, when it comes to matters within the European Union. That's one. Two, these are cases where there is no fairly clear indication of detection. An IP address is, of course, a fairly clear detection indication. I fully agree with the questioner. By the way, there is not always an identifiable perpetrator behind the IP address. But it's not like the police or the D.A.'s office, after looking for it, say, "We're not doing anything with it anymore." Of course, it's being re-created. And at some point one has to find that one doesn't get any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you.
