ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u1	The next item is the debate on the Kingdom Disputes Act, Document 35099. I would like to welcome the members of the House of Representatives. I would also like to welcome the special delegates appointed by the States of Curaçao, Mrs Pauletta, Mrs Moses and Mrs McMc. William and the special delegates appointed by the States of Aruba, Mr Thijsen, Mr Tjon, Mr Sneek and Mr Arends and Mrs Lopez-Tromp, who have now taken their place in our midst. For the people who watch and think "gosh, I see new MPs": they are the Statesmen of Aruba and Curaçao. They have also taken their seats in the Chamber. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. At the same time, the Minister responsible for Saint Martin, Mrs Wuite, and the Minister with special responsibility for Aruba, Mr Besaril, took their place in trade union K. I would also like to welcome them and their colleagues, Mrs Duijf, Mrs Voges and Mr Kock, all of whom have taken part in the President's Lodge. Finally, I would like to welcome the authorised Minister of Curaçao, Mrs Eisden, who will support the members of the States of Curaçao, as well as the Deputy Minister of Aruba, Mr Paris. Let me give you a few practical messages. They've been e-mailed, too, but I'm gonna say it again just in case. Since it concerns the treatment of a national law, both the special delegates and the authorised ministers have the right to speak. I have drawn up a list of speakers, on which the Dutch Members of Parliament will take the floor alternately with the Members of Curaçao and Aruba. The authorised Minister of Saint Martin will speak after the first term of office. In accordance with Article 17 of the Staff Regulations, the contributions of the Deputy Minister and those of the Special Delegates shall have the character of providing information. In view of this, I will allow only clarifying questions if necessary. I see Mr Bosman looking a little disappointed. I will allow any clarification questions at the end of the contributions of the special delegates and the authorised minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u2	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u3	Mr. Chairman. We have disputes in the Kingdom about the dispute settlement. We're fighting in the Kingdom about how to fight with each other. Today, there's a bill in front of it that nobody's actually happy with. Aruba is not happy with it, Curaçao is not happy with it, Sint-Maarten is not happy with it and I am not happy with it either. I am afraid, Mr President, that you will all hear speakers who are not happy with it in the next three hours. The President may be wondering, but what are you doing here? I'll get back to you on that. Let me first try to explain how it has happened in recent years and what my purpose of this debate is. I think that if we in the Kingdom make a dispute settlement with each other, this should be a dispute settlement that we are all enthusiastic about. I hope that today, with parliamentarians from all countries and their duly mandated minister, we can try to create a dispute settlement that will make us all happy. If that does not work, I think we will have to give an order to our governments, to all four governments, to do so. I would also like to draw attention to something else today, not how we settle our disputes, but how we prevent disputes. How do we stop us fighting? It goes back a long time. After World War II, Indonesia became independent. Apart from the CPN, all political parties in this House of Representatives had great difficulty with that. India lost and disaster was born. Then it was thought from the Netherlands: how can we keep Indonesia with us for as long as possible? At that time, a plan was made in which the Netherlands would guide former colonies to independence and in which the Netherlands could intervene if necessary. If countries were more independent, the Netherlands would have to intervene less, and if countries were less independent, the Netherlands would be able to intervene more. But when it was, it wasn't put on paper. That had to stay open. When the Statute for the Kingdom was drawn up in 1954, Indonesia had long and broad independence. At that time, that Statute was to apply to the other areas. New Guinea became part of Indonesia in the 1960s. Suriname became independent in the 1970s. In the 1980s, Aruba retired from the Netherlands Antilles. In the 1990s we all hoped here in the Netherlands that Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles would become independent. That didn't happen. Aruba decided to become an autonomous country in the Kingdom. This example was eventually followed by Curaçao and Sint-Maarten in 2010, after which Saba, Statia and Bonaire became part of the Netherlands. I voted against it then. I was at the 2010 debates on the new state relations. Mr Thijsen, my comrade, was there too. We had nice debates back then. But I voted against it then. One of the reasons I was against this is because the relations within the Kingdom were not clear. It was unclear in 2010 what exactly were the responsibilities of the new countries, the autonomous countries, and what the Kingdom's responsibilities were. We didn't do that homework back then. The Statute was once intended to guide countries to independence. I believe that this ambiguity in the Statute, particularly in the guarantee function, cannot exist anymore when countries indicate that they wish to remain part of the Kingdom. In 2010, we agreed that there should be a dispute settlement. It is only when the Statute is so unclear and the responsibilities in the Kingdom are so unclear that it is also very difficult to clarify when we have disputes about that Statute. This is evident in recent years, at least since 2010. For five years, the governments of Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands have tried to settle disputes. That didn't work. In 2015, as parliamentarians at the IPKO, the consultation for parliamentarians from the four countries of the Kingdom, we made some arrangements, a kind of framework within which we thought that a dispute settlement would work best. This is an independent body that can give binding advice on legal interpretations of the Statute. We've recorded that, and that's not what's going on today. There's something else in front of it today. It is not binding in the sense that it is always taken over. I think it is right to ask questions at the institute that is going to do so, the Advisory Section of the Council of State. And there is always the question of what is legal, because in recent years I have learned that in the Kingdom few things are purely legal and that there is always a political dimension. In the end, it is in the current arrangement that the National Council of Ministers decides. I can imagine very well... I am not happy with this proposal either. I had hoped that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin would come up with a joint proposal, an amendment that could excite us all. But I see now that there is an amendment tabled by Mr Thijsen and others. I also see that there is an amendment tabled by Mr Bishop. They both do something. Mr Bishop's amendment makes the opinion almost binding, but leaves it to the Section to advise. Mr Thijsen's amendment makes it completely binding and puts the opinion, or rather the opinion, before the Administrative Court of the Council of State. I note, however, that these two amendments cannot be combined. I am also very curious to see how that is going to work today, whether we can all come up with something to support an amendment that will ensure that this dispute settlement becomes a settlement for all of us. However, I do not yet know whether the current amendments will be able to do so. I am very positive about Mr Thijsen's amendment, but I would also like to know what the Secretary of State thinks about it. I am also very interested in the opinion of other groups in this Chamber, because once again, I think that a dispute settlement can only work if we all support it. We do not have much of a dispute settlement of a number of countries or groups. We have here the authorized ministers of Aruba and Saint Martin. I am very curious whether these countries are really willing to cooperate. I am also seeing all kinds of developments today on St.Maarten. It seems that ministers from prison are going to be exchanged who want to cooperate too much with the Netherlands. Perhaps the Minister-in-Office could also comment on this. Can we still work with Saint Martin from Parliament, but certainly from the government? Will there be any ministers there who want to cooperate with the Netherlands? Or have all these ministers been replaced in the meantime? The most important question I would like to put to you, perhaps, in the second term, is: how can we prevent disputes? Because, of course, it would be best to have a Kingdom where there is no need for a dispute settlement. As far as I am concerned, as far as SP is concerned, all four of our governments, and those of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, should perhaps be given more orders than those of the Netherlands. Why don't you go do your homework? Go do what we should have done in 2010 or what we should have done in 1954. Why don't you take a look at the responsibilities within the Staff Regulations? What are the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin responsible for, and what is the Kingdom's responsibility? And if something is a responsibility of the Kingdom, how can we ensure that the Netherlands, as by far the largest country, can help and support it without constantly getting into a fight and hassle? We saw that on Saint Martin, hit by a disaster. I think that despite all the mistakes we have made, of course, from the Netherlands, we have sincerely tried to help. We have made available more than 0.5 billion, i.e. 600 million dollars. We have a lot of knowledge and skill. We have made concrete proposals for the airport. You can see it's being boycotted; it's being made impossible for us. So we need to talk about legal disputes in the Kingdom, but I think we will also have to talk about how we will work together in the Kingdom. How can we ensure that the Netherlands is not always blamed for everything? Because we are doing a lot of wrong here from The Hague, because we often do not understand what is happening on the islands, because the islands are so far away. Even though we have been together for so long, the cultures and also the administrative cultures are different. However, I would very much like us to break the automatism that drivers on the islands make mistakes and not learn from those mistakes, but blame the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Mr Drost has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u5	I have a clarifying question to ask Mr. Van Raak's opinion perhaps a little more. What makes this evening's debate difficult, in my view, is the balance that we have to make between the legal side of this matter, which is constitutional, or indeed statutory, and on the other hand the administrative reality that we have. You outline the administrative reality and I can actually agree with that; you have a lot more history on this file than I do. But if I look purely at the state law as it is now, and in the light of the history that exists, we can only see that the Secretary of State actually does so in his report, rather than that it does not quite match what we had in mind in 2010. How's your assessment of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u6	It has to be independent. I can go a long way with it, but I think that the Advisory Section of the Council of State is vulnerable, because it can also give its opinion at an earlier stage. We must avoid getting into the situation that the same institute is also going to give advice. So that's what I find vulnerable. I think it's only legal matters... I do not think there have been many cases within the Kingdom since 1954 that are merely legal. I think that the disputes often take the form of a legal conflict or a legal interpretation, but almost always there is a political conflict behind them, or at least there is a political interpretation of the relations in the Kingdom. Well, that's hard for me, too. If I were a member of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, I would find it very difficult to tell what is purely legal and whatever is political. On the third point, the binding one, I go very much along with Aruba, which says it must be binding. That is what we agreed as a parliament in 2015. But I can also sympathise with Mr Bishop's amendment, which says that there must be a tiny hole left. What the Secretary of State is doing is to invest this with the National Council of Ministers. I also understand the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State and I also welcome the fact that he has taken a step. Since the treatment he has also said that there must be very serious reasons to deviate. He has mentioned a number of examples of this. I don't think they're all very wrong. I think the mouse hole created by Mr Bishop is perhaps even better. But like Mr Drost, I am not happy with what is lying there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u7	Mr Drost, a short question and then a short answer, because we have 19 speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u8	Yes, you're right, Mr. Chairman. I'll hold back a little bit. Mr Van Raak wants to steer: we should not fight. I agree, but also in the most utopian situation where we would never have a fight, it is good to have a dispute settlement. I think it is important to look at the dispute settlement in this debate in this way too and to keep it pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u9	I have my personal preferences about what the dispute settlement should look like. I have all views on the extent to which it is binding and on what I think would be best. But most importantly, I think that there will be a dispute settlement that we all get excited about. I do not care whether it is advice or administrative jurisdiction, or whether it is binding on the Secretary of State, the binding on Mr Thijsen or the binding on Mr Bishop. I can live with all three when we can think of something here that we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Pauletta of PAR Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, good afternoon. With your permission I use this moment to briefly reflect on the Day of the Flag, Dia di Bandera, which is celebrated today on Curaçao. In the year 1984 2 July was declared a national holiday. Today, Curaçao raises his flag for the 36th time. On behalf of the Curaçao delegation, I would like to congratulate the Curaçao people on this happy day. Un pabien na kada un yu di Korsou, na Hulanda Korsou i Around Mundu ku ta celebra dia di Bandera. E bandera ku ta simbolo di nos union kom nashion. Simbolo di nos identidat, huntu ku nos idioma, himno i e eskudo e ta para tambe pa nos identidat como suidadano di Korsou.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u12	Except for "Hulanda," I didn't understand. Maybe more people can't follow this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u13	It is a bit what I have just said: it is a congratulation in Papiaments for everyone who listens to us and understands the Papiaments. So as a last sentence: ban pa un korsow fuerte Huntu, apesar di Retenan nos lo lo logra pa nos generashon i e generashon nan ku ta bini. The flag of Curaçao is blue with a yellow stripe and two white stars at the top of the hoist. The big star stands for Curaçao; the small one for Klein-Curaçao. The blue represents the sky and the sea, separated by a yellow ray of sunshine. But blue and yellow symbolize more than just the sea and the sun, which are abundant on Curaçao. The colour yellow also symbolizes the happiness and cheerfulness, or warmth, of our population and the color blue symbolizes the loyalty of our people. Symbolism and values that we as a people are proud of. Values which are precisely the reasons why I am standing here today as a special delegate. A very esteemed colleague once said in this Chamber that the Kingdom is not a non-binding latting relationship, but a family. No deal per partner, no supermarket model where you can pack whatever you want. The rule of law is important, as well as good rules, good enforcement, decent legal aid and independent justice. After so many years of thinking about the need for a dispute settlement, it is indeed necessary to make choices now. Obama said it best: "We came here not to fear the future. We came to shape it." The proposed bill does not meet the wishes of the four countries of the Kingdom. In the Van Laar motion, the House of Representatives, with the approval of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, indicated a clear line. The current draft applies to legal disputes. This is one of the principles, as agreed in the IPKO context, which can be appreciated. However, this is not consistent with the choice to leave the decision on the dispute raised to the final judgment of the National Council of Ministers pursuant to Article 8 of the draft. That is why I ask the following question: why was it chosen to appoint the National Council of Ministers as the final evaluator? Does this rhyme with a well-functioning rule of law? If the scope concerns purely legal disputes with regard to the interpretation of statutory provisions, the final decision lends itself to a review by an independent body, which is required to give a binding opinion. Several experts have expressed their views on this issue: Professor Van Rijn, Professor Hoogers, Professor Hirsch Ballin and our own state law expert, Mrs Camelia-Römer. All indicate that, in the spirit of Article 12a, the intention is to create a dispute resolution procedure with an independent judgment. Although the wording, explanation and explanation of the State Secretary in the note following the report indicate that, in principle, the opinion of the Council of State should be followed by the National Council of Ministers, it is not inconceivable that there should be a derogation from it. Look how quickly there is a deviation from the advice of state bodies, professors, professors, experts, the four parliaments and the government of the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom on the submission of the current bill alone. Who guarantees that the same will not happen if there is an actual dispute? In such a case, the country that raised the dispute will be left empty-handed and will underline the democratic deficit. Once again, I quote a colleague: the Kingdom is not a supermarket relationship, in which you can take what you want, depending on the partner. Clear and justly defined rules ensure that there is no arbitrariness. Our citizens deserve this. Rich or poor, large or small, 160,000 or 17 million: the rules should apply equally to all of them. It is precisely the unwritten open measure that provides a great deal of resistance to the countries of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. As experience has shown, purely administrative disputes between Dutch authorities do not occur very often, at least where the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State is already competent to judge them. Nevertheless, it must always be borne in mind that every dispute is too much and must be avoided as much as possible. In addition, the scheme completely fails to achieve its objective when a final decision on an existing dispute is taken by the same body that is party to the dispute. In practice, this contributes to more disputes. At the very least, the meaning, i.e. the legal basis, of the decision on the dispute as a result of Article 8 of the proposal may be questioned. In accordance with the explanation given in the note following the report, that decision is to be regarded as a decision having internal effect. It is binding only on the members of the National Council of Ministers itself. The binding for Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten is established through the authorised ministers. Article 1 (2) opens the possibility for the President of the National Council of Ministers to reject the request of the authorised Minister if a major interest of the Kingdom so requires. Where this is done, there is no judicial procedure against that decision, since that decision is not a decision within the meaning of Article 1 (3) of the General Administrative Law Act. So I have one more question. Is it intended that the National Council of Ministers should continue to exercise control over the way in which disputes arise and its judgment, because the National Council of Ministers wishes to maintain some political space in the matter of differences of opinion within the Kingdom? There are fundamental objections, among other things, to the way in which the draft dispute settlement has been set up. Reference is made to the views of different experts. If so, it must be concluded that the proposed amendments cannot be implemented by means of a regular national law procedure. For the stated long list of reasons, Curaçao does not agree with the current bill. It would be fundamentally wrong and against our Statute to allow this law to continue as it is today. I quote Obama one last time: "Change will not come if we wait for some other person or some other time. We are the ones we've been waiting for. We are the change that we seek." This is our moment to change what we want to see differently. As representatives of the people of the Kingdom, we are now their voice. What do we want to see in the history books for a few generations? We define our relationship within the Kingdom of four countries ourselves, together. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u14	Thank you, Mrs Pauletta. Mr Van Raak has an informative question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u15	I was very critical of the Dutch Government because there is no proposal for a dispute settlement that is supported by all four countries. Mrs Pauletta is also very critical. I want to see who she's critical of and what she wants today. The first question is: is she critical of the government of Curaçao, which, like the Dutch Government, has not managed to settle disputes? The second question is: what should such a dispute settlement look like? What alternative would Mrs Pauletta or Curaçao think we should make today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u16	Those are different questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u17	And not at all informative. No, Mr. Van Raak, they're not informative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u18	You are asking me what a dispute settlement should look like. We have already indicated this: independent, binding in the event of legal disputes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u19	Thank you, Mrs Pauletta. I now give the floor to Mr Thijsen of MEP Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u20	Mr. Chairman. It is my honour and pleasure to be present again in the Lower House of the States-General. I say this in particular because of the subject under discussion today, namely the proposal for a national dispute settlement law. In April 2010, I was here as a special delegate to the Aruban delegation and, together with my former colleague, Mr Wever, I tabled an amendment on Article 12 of the Statute, which was adopted by a large majority of 140 votes. It was the beginning of a trip that took a long time, sometimes in bad weather, sometimes in good weather. We're approaching the final destination now. It was a journey that took a great deal of time and effort, but I am convinced that we are very close together more than ever before to reach consensus on the settlement of disputes. I hope for a favourable outcome of today's debate, in the sense that a dispute settlement is agreed which enjoys broad support and provides an adequate provision for the independent settlement of disputes on the legal interpretation of the statutory provisions agreed jointly by the countries of the Kingdom. Over a period of nine years, two official attempts have been made to arrive at an adequate and effective dispute resolution system. First by former Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Ronald Plasterk, and last by Secretary of State Knops. None of these attempts, however, comply with the agreements made between the four Companions of the Kingdom. There was no other way. Both attempts are mutually exclusive. Neither take into account the agreements agreed in the IPKO and subsequently in this Chamber in the Van Laar motion. Because of this shortcoming, the present legislative proposal lacks support, not only from the Caribbean Kingdoms but also from its own Dutch political officials and legal experts. The Secretary of State admits in his note following the report that the present proposal of the State Secretary of State does not meet the agreed conditions to be met by an adequate and effective dispute settlement. I quote: 'As explained above, I believe that the Van Laar motion is in many respects respected by the government by the present proposal'. In many ways is not enough. The government does not have the free choice to determine what requirements it must meet in order to determine that the proposal of state law complies with the Van Laar motion. The opinion of Aruba is that the present proposal is not compatible with the text of Article 12a of the Statute or with the wording of the Van Laar motion. Mr. Chairman. Article 55 of the Staff Regulations requires that the content and interpretation of the Staff Regulations are not freely available to either the Kingdom Government or the State legislature. In implementing the provisions of the Staff Regulations, the government and the state legislature must respect the history of the individual provisions of the Staff Regulations and must respect the wishes of the Caribbean countries expressed in the Staff Regulations. As part of these changes to the Staff Regulations, two important amendments by the Aruban States have been proposed and accepted. As indicated above, the importance of these amendments cannot be sufficiently underlined, as the Statute and therefore Article 12a Statute are an expression of the will of all countries within the Kingdom. This will must be respected by the government and the state legislature in the implementation of the Statute. The possibility initially created by Article 12a of the Statute to settle disputes between the Kingdom and the countries by national law has been transformed by the amendment of the Special Delegates Wever and Thijsen of 12 April 2010 into an imperative obligation to make such a provision. The explanatory memorandum to the said amendment expressly stated that, in order to ensure adequate provision within the meaning of Article 12a of the Staff Regulations, an independent provision for the settlement of legal disputes concerning the interpretation of the provisions of the Staff Regulations should be established. The fact that, under Article 12a, it should be expressly concerned with the settlement of legal disputes by an independent body was also accepted by the Second Chamber at the time, in 2010, by special delegates Yrausquin and Herdé. In view of the above, the dispute settlement system must comply with three principles of principle: jurisdiction over disputes should be conferred on an independent court, that body should be able to deal with legal disputes and, in particular, the interpretation of the Statute and the Staff Regulations by the Kingdom bodies, and that body should give a final opinion on the constitutional, statutory or legal dispute. In May 2015, the IPKO, building on the January 2015 consultations, also established that delegations would give consideration to three important principles regarding the settlement of disputes to the Kingdom Conference of Governments, namely that whether the High Council or an independent Common Dispute Resolution Court or a High College of State would be entrusted with the resolution of disputes by the Kingdom, that such dispute resolution should be carried out by a binding ruling of that body, and that dispute resolution would extend to strictly legal disputes relating to statutory provisions. In October 2015, MP Van Laar tabled a motion in the Lower House to include the aforementioned principles of the IPKO in the implementation of a dispute settlement. This motion was accepted by the House of Representatives on 13 October 2015 by 94 votes in favour, so the current proposal of the Kingdom's Law does not give substance to Article 12a Statute. If Article 12 of the Statute is to be implemented, it should at least confer on an independent court capable of making binding decisions a dispute settlement power of constitutional and legal disputes. Of course, the underlying proposal of state law cannot be enough. Article 12a of the Statute still needs to be implemented. To this end, Article 12a of the Statute even requires that there be an obligation to settle disputes. On this basis, we have tabled an amendment to implement Article 12a of the Statute. Mr. Chairman. Since 2005 I have been a member of the Aruban Parliament. Within the IPKO, at the time POK, I met many Dutch colleagues. I am therefore convinced that they are consistent and consistent in their positions. In 2010, the House of Representatives adopted the Thijsen/Wever amendment by a large majority. In 2015, the Dutch MPs adopted the Van Laar motion by 94 votes. This confirmed once again that there are three essential points, namely independence, bindingness and strictly legal disputes. I am therefore convinced that in this case the amendment, which is supported by both Curaçao and Saint Martin's colleagues, will receive support, in the interests and well-being of our Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. Let not politics divide us, but let justice unite us and unite us. I have every confidence in my Dutch colleagues, who at this historic moment will not only cast the voice of the Dutch people, but also those of the Aruban, Curaçao and Saint Martin's peoples. Living together, working together, deciding together and taking responsibility together; one Kingdom. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u21	Thank you, Mr. Thijsen. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This plenary debate is of a special nature. I am glad that people from all parts of the Kingdom can express their views here today. Mr. Chairman. I do not believe that I can put it more beautifully than the Statute of the Kingdom itself: to declare the countries of free will to accept a new legal order in which they represent their own interests independently and provide common interests on an equal footing. It's in the Staff Regulations. But these fine words are open to many explanations, which means that the discussions in this house are mainly about who is responsible for what now, rather than about how we can jointly and equally deal with the major problems facing the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Above all, we must look at what unites us in our Kingdom and take it as a basis for a common approach. I am very sorry to say this, but I can very well imagine that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin have missed that equivalence in the formation of the Kingdom's Law, which is before us today. Because no matter how you turn or turn it, with the current procedure, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, keeps the last word in all circumstances. The direction on the whole remains with the Dutch Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. On several occasions, the common preferred principles for the dispute settlement have been established. We want an independent body that supports the Kingdom and makes binding rulings on disputes between countries. The Court confirmed these principles in October 2015. To my great surprise, there is now a draft national law in which disputes between countries can always be settled in the interests of the Netherlands: not independently, not judicially, but politically, in the National Council of Ministers, whose voting relationship is established in advance. The majority decides, so by definition the three authorized ministers are in the minority. It is also painful to note that the countries have not been sufficiently heard in the preparation of this draft national law. The proposal that has been put forward and reached the Chamber does not meet the expectations that have been raised in the past in terms of process and content. In short, it is about the countries, but it is not about the other countries within the Kingdom itself. I ask the Secretary of State if this is the way to achieve a shared basis for a dispute settlement. How does he expect a final decision to be implemented in one of the other countries? I am very concerned about that. It promises little good that the settlement of disputes has already become a dispute in itself. Under these circumstances, it would be wise to start over, as the various experts also advise us. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The legislative proposal itself leaves little room to resolve disputes outside the proposed lines. According to the answers to my questions, the Secretary of State does not want any interference from third parties and therefore sees no reason to include mediation in the bill. That sounds like a huge loss to me. This cabinet, through the Minister for Legal Protection, proposes to everyone to resolve conflicts as far as possible outside the courts to resolve them. It's called dejuriation. Even Dutch municipalities have more legal and practical possibilities to counter national policies under the guise of deregulation, possibly with the intervention of the Council of State. At the same time, this is another good example of how this government cabinet itself judges its conflicts and draws its resolution towards itself. It does resemble the butcher who approves his own flesh. Mr. Chairman. I share the vision of statesman Hirsch Ballin. He says that a dispute settlement must establish peace, not be a mechanism of dominance and not a unilateral decision. Conflicts you talk out, possibly with the intervention of a third, independent, trusted person, a mediator. To this end, together with Mr Diertens, I propose an amendment to the Chamber. Finally, Mr President. GroenLinks is very critical of this rich proposal and is difficult to convince that this will prove to be the way out for Kingdom conflicts. I urge the Secretary of State to start over and jointly look for a broad-based proposal. The foundation has been there since 2015. I call on all the countries of the Kingdom to come up with a peaceful settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u23	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mrs Moses on behalf of MP Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not a coincidence, I think, that we're standing here on the Day of the Flag of Curaçao. It's a day we've been celebrating our flag for 35 years. A flag symbolizes a nation and its territory. With the birth of the four new countries within the Kingdom, we are talking about Curaçao, Aruba, Sint-Maarten and, of course, the BES islands that joined the Netherlands at the time. Of course, there is more cooperation, because these are countries that are autonomous. That is why the consensus has been reached on the need for a dispute settlement. That is laid down in Article 12a, because Article 12 did not actually work. It is more logical that in 2015, when there was consensus between parliaments, we expected it to continue. We are surprised to see that the government unilaterally takes a decision on its own dispute settlement. However, that is a dispute settlement that has led to disputes. Professor Oostindie also made a comment about a dispute over the dispute settlement: you should not bring that up. We think so, too. This unilateral decision, without taking the parliaments... I must say that without a parliament you have no democracy. Democracy is the only thing you have with parliaments, with the peoples. We would have preferred to do it together, especially since there was already consensus. Going back is not an option; we simply need to move forward in this whole development of realising within a Kingdom and working together as equal partners. What are we doing it for anyway? We do it for the people, not for ourselves and not for politics. If we really want to oppose this with political will, then we should start talking to each other, at the table, in order to reach consensus. The government is bringing this forward without the support of the countries. It is more than logical that we from Curaçao cannot agree with this. We do not support this proposal either. I must say that the proposal contains a number of positive points. Of course, we can't break up the whole proposal. We agree with the fact that these are legal disputes and also the assessment clause. Our proposal is: just start by consensus, start with the proposal that was on the table for 2015, binding and independent in legal disputes. That's where we found each other. The peoples have found each other there, so let's start there. We've been going on for nine years, a long time. It is not a waste of time, because we have gained experience at this time. If there is real political will, we can come with a shortcut. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u25	Thank you, Mrs Moses. I now give the floor to Mr Tjon van MEP Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u26	Mr President, good afternoon. Anyone following us, have a good afternoon. I would like to start with the wise words of Mr Van Raak: we must prevent the Netherlands from always being blamed. I think this is a very good time for us to come to terms with that. I will be brief and not go into legal arguments as to why the present proposal does not give substance to Article 12a, because I think that, after reading all these different position papers from respected experts, this is clear to everyone. Moreover, this is also the conclusion that can be drawn from the discussion which the Committee on Kingdom Relations has had with experts on the dispute settlement that we have before us today. I would like to stress the importance of achieving a just settlement, a regime that reflects the origins and the long path that has been followed by all four parliaments of the Kingdom. I therefore see this moment as an opportunity to strengthen and improve the ties, an opportunity to revive the Kingdom. After nine years, as representatives of the people, I think we should do what we have said. In 2010 we, as representatives of the people, adopted an amendment stating that we need to settle disputes. We, as representatives of the people, then laid down in a motion the conditions to be met by this dispute settlement. In 2015, the former group of the current Secretary of State also agreed that the independent body that has to settle disputes should issue binding advice in the event of legal disputes. In view of the fact that the Council of State, professors who took part in the round tables in the House of Representatives, and even the Secretary of State himself, in his note on the report, states that the present proposal does not meet the conditions previously mentioned, we have nothing but an amendment to table. I refer to Mr Thijsen's amendment, together with Mr Diertens and Mr Kuiik. I think it is a fair, legally well-founded and just amendment, which responds to the wish expressed by the people's representatives in 2016. I would like to stress that this is a good time to get closer to each other and to avoid many disputes in the future. This amendment also benefits the Netherlands. As Mr Van Raak pointed out, this amendment can prevent the Netherlands from always being blamed. Having regard to the fact that if the accuracy of a decision of the National Council of Ministers on a dispute in the interests of the Kingdom is confirmed by an independent body delivering binding advice, the islands cannot oppose it either. This is often at the heart of the problem when it comes to relations within the Kingdom. I think this is the first step towards a more equal Kingdom. I, too, am confident that the amendment will be supported by our people's representatives. After nine years, the time has come to show decisiveness and to prove that we actually believe in a Kingdom that strives for equality. The time has come to put an end to the dispute settlement. I remember very well that the Secretary of State, when he was on Aruba at an introduction round in Windows, the restaurant, gave an address. He indicated that, in order to meet all the challenges facing Aruba, we must not only express words, but also show decisiveness. Not words, but deeds. I think that is also very appropriate today, when we are talking about the dispute settlement. I'll leave it at that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tjon. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u28	Mr. Chairman. There is a well-known Chinese proverb: a 1,000-mile journey starts at the first step. That is a proverb that I often have to think about in my quest for justice in this world and which I often have to think about in debates on kingdom relations. This bill has already made quite a journey. In 2009, Parliaments discussed the mandate for the dispute settlement in detail in the revision of the Staff Regulations. In 2010, the Council of State of the Kingdom stressed the importance of effective and binding dispute resolution. In 2015, the Parliaments themselves set out common principles during the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation, the IPKO. With the Van Laar motion, a broad majority has adopted the principles. In summary, Parliament expects an independent body to make a binding ruling on legal disputes. Since then, the IPKO has asked again and again when the dispute settlement would come and whether the principles of the IPKO would be adopted. I remember that was one of my first questions in one of my first debates here in this Chamber. The position of the D66 Group will therefore not surprise you. It has remained constant in the ten years that have been mentioned. I am disappointed to note that the Secretary of State's proposal differs from the most important part. The Secretary of State opts for an advisory procedure, in which the Netherlands always has the last word. My group has three objections to this, which I shall briefly mention. The validity of the bill. In a modern rule of law, the power of the government is limited by laws. The judge shall determine whether the government is acting lawfully. The State Secretary's advisory procedure creates the situation that if the National Council of Ministers violates the Statute or the law, it may still do its own thing. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u29	Mrs Diertens talks about the Secretary of State's proposal, but I think it is a cabinet decision. How does Mrs Diertens view that aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u30	I think I am very dualistic in this, as it should be in a good democracy. I'm a member of parliament. The cabinet has its own tasks and its own responsibility and the parliament is there to speak the voice of the people as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u31	Then we have to conclude that the D66 narrow section of the cabinet has failed. Is that right? May I conclude with that? Here there is strong opposition with strong texts, including in the input. Did the D66 narrow part drop into the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u32	I can tell you that I do not know, because I have not spoken to our ministers and that is how it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u33	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u34	The advisory procedure, I had just said that it probably shouldn't be. The dispute settlement must be supported. It is important for the parliaments and governments of the four countries in the Kingdom to be able to agree to national legislation. That is not the case. The bill is not effective. The Council of State advised in November 2010 to end the procedure in a binding ruling. This prevents the dispute from continuing. The proposal does not solve that. The three objections were not taken out of the sky. The four professors also raised these concerns during the round table meeting. Can the Secretary of State explain why, despite the advice of the Council of State and the criticism of the professors, he continues to maintain a non-binding dispute settlement? And can the Secretary of State appoint how often the government has asked the Council of State for advice in disputes of the Kingdom? If the National Council of Ministers has deviated from the recommendation, why did the National Council of Ministers do so? Mr. Chairman. In the journey of a thousand miles, which we are now travelling together, it is not my preference to take a step back or, worse still, to take a step back. That is why my group is working with Aruba, which represents all the islands, and the PvdA is proposing a comprehensive and constructive solution to the gap in the legislative proposal. The amendment ensures that the Administrative Court of the Council of State makes a binding ruling on legal disputes. Just as the Netherlands department is ticking the finger when the Netherlands violates the Dutch law, the department will also have to touch the Kingdom if the National Council of Ministers violates the Statute or the Reichswet. The amendment corresponds as much as possible to Dutch administrative law. It is also in line with the Secretary of State's bill as far as possible. In the written preparation for this debate, the government mentions two reasons why the arrangement cannot be binding. The first argument is that the judge cannot take into account the latest developments. That's not right. That's solved with the ex-nunckeying. The second argument is that the National Council of Ministers should be able to intervene for serious reasons. That is where I tried to think about this amendment. Lawyers told me that Articles 50 and 51 of the Statute already provide for this. So we don't need a hole anymore. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? Finally. I hope that my colleagues will not confuse politics and the legal quality too much and that my amendment can count on very broad support. I hope that we, as the Kingdom, will take a step forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u35	I have raised the issue of binding at various times, i.e. at the round table, IPKO, namely that there may sometimes be a conflict or interest. I am going to use that in my speech to the Secretary of State, but I will still present it to Mrs Diertens. What if the Council of Europe states that human rights are being violated and that the Kingdom must intervene in a country, the country is in dispute and the dispute wins; who then has control?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u36	We have discussed this before. In principle, all countries are responsible for their course, but in the end we also have a joint responsibility in the kingdom. But I certainly want to find out for the second term, so that I can answer you better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u37	No, I've mentioned this before. It's a very clear question. The Council of Europe says: you must intervene, because they are human rights violations. There's gonna be a dispute. The country wins the dispute. Do we then follow the Disputes Committee or do we follow the Council of Europe? 'Cause that's in conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u38	I think that this should be taken into account in the further development of this amendment. But because I am not a lawyer myself, but just a simple gym teacher, and because I think we should all figure this out very clearly and properly so that we can have a good dispute committee once and for all, I am going to check exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u39	I'm struggling...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u40	You don't have to be a lawyer, Mrs. Diertens. You've had enough knowledge of your file, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u41	Sure, but not to the very small details.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u42	Okay, not yourself... Good. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u43	I'm a simple lawyer. With my gym, it's never gotten much. I have to acknowledge my superior in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u44	Good to know, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u45	I agreed with Minister Grapperhaus last week that we're going to do the police fitness test together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u46	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u47	Minister Grapperhaus asked if he would have six months to prepare himself. I was really glad he asked me to, 'cause I need it, too. Maybe Mrs. Diertens...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u48	I'm offering you a training schedule. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u49	Thank you very much. If only we had had a bit more training time before this arrangement, I think sometimes with myself. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u50	Oh, now I understand the bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u51	I would like to ask a few questions about the amendment that is now before us. In essence, this amendment sets out a dispute in the Kingdom in its entirety. It's gonna be a judge. The Department of Administrative Law is a real judge. To my taste, there is little opportunity for politics to find anything else after that. I do not think that is the ambition of the amendment that Mrs Diertens has put her name on. But I have to think about the Secretary of State. She has the AIVD under her head and she may know, also in the context of the consultation in the Trêveszaal, things that are not hard on paper and are not hard on the judge's test, but we do not have to tell each other that we can play a role in the government's considerations. Can you explain to me how your partymate at BZK should deal with such a wall-tight arrangement? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u52	I think that is the same as that municipalities can have disputes within Dutch law. The procedure is we're gonna figure out exactly what that's like. We do not have to make so much difference between a dispute from the Netherlands vis-à-vis the State and a dispute from the countries within the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u53	I hear there a bit of wishful thinking in that way. While I'm thinking, guys, this is serious business. It's about serious things between countries. It is not about the municipality of Groningen, the administrative court and the national government. It's about landing. Apart from the dual discussion, I sincerely wonder whether you have thought that this kind of thing could play and that you should completely block the cabinet in this respect, without the back door that is inside it, which is perhaps now too big and which might be smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u54	I don't think I'm putting the cabinet on the line. All the processes and decisions that have been taken have been discussed several times by different bodies. I think it's a good thing that we put an end to that now and that we say, "God, if we all want this, this is the playing field." It's purely legal. I also signed an amendment with Mrs Özütok. It is always good to talk to each other first in order to find a good solution to the problems. Then we have some sort of prevention as to how we are all going to shape the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u55	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u56	A brief, closing remark. Mediation is fun, of course, but a cabinet bases its considerations on more than just the legal reality. I note that at least you are not giving me a satisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u57	I think so, because this amendment still offers the possibility of using Article 51. This indicates that in very serious cases there is an opportunity to give that clue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u58	I find Mr Thijsen's amendment particularly sympathetic. In fact, I would very much like to support it. I intend to support it. I would like all parties to be able to support this at the end of this evening or night. But I do have a question. Mrs Diertens makes the comparison with municipalities in the Netherlands. They can go to the Council of State in a conflict with the national government or with each other. But the Netherlands is one political community that we are the parliament of. We are now dealing with four different countries, four different political communities. What I'm afraid of is this. If there is a dispute between them that we have to submit to the Council of State, because they are four different political communities, then such an issue can never be just legal and always has a political component. Can this be done with this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u59	Yes. I have read some complicated cases in preparation for this debate. Then I come to the same conclusion that a legal dispute is not always just legal. I even watched YouTube movies to get that all right on the retina. In addition, I saw that a judge can take the environment of the problem that lies ahead with the dispute. In that sense, I think it's important to know that. Only, when we talk about dispute settlement, we should not start with politics. Then there must be proper dispute settlement and then we must have confidence that the judges and the Council of State will handle it properly. And there is also an appeal in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u60	That's not what I meant. In our country you have one political community, one politics and one political interpretation. It is always different between four countries. I hope that Mrs Diertens can reassure me a little, otherwise I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what that is about. But again, I would very much like us to be able to come to this solution. But I do see that there is still a problem here and that this kind of conflict can never only be made legal. I hope it doesn't go down with a binding legal review. But maybe someone can give me a ruling on that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u61	I just want to say that the world is becoming more and more global, so we are increasingly dealing with all kinds of international legislation in which we will have to find each other in this little world. Anyway, then maybe I'll make it really big. I hope with you that we can find a good solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u62	I have a quick question. I agree with most of Mrs Diertens' speech. She has also tabled an amendment. I have heard previous speakers say that it is important that we get together today. The word consensus has also fallen a number of times. But the contribution so far has not yet been appreciated by this consensus on this floor. Is there room for Mrs. Diertens to talk about something? Is her amendment now cast into concrete, chiseled, or can we really try to reach consensus today? And where's the room for her?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u63	As far as I'm concerned, nothing was poured into concrete. If good steps can be taken and colleagues in particular agree, then I would like to think along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I shall now give the floor to Mrs McMc. William from MAN Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u65	Thank you, Madam President. "Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of life longing for themselves. They're yours, but they're not yours. And even though they're with you, they don't belong to you. You may give them your love, but not your thoughts, because they have their own thoughts." Madam President. I repeat the famous quote about children and parents of the Christian poet and philosopher Kahlil Gibran from the book The Prophet, which my group predecessor, Mrs Eunice Eisden, told you in the context of the Kingdom's emancipation in 2010. I'm moving on, Madam President. We still have a long way to go. The long history of the proposal for a dispute settlement is a fact, but what is particularly important is the underlying reason why this is going on for so long. In particular, this is reflected in the divergent views on the implementation of such a system. In short, there has been no consensus on the interpretation of Article 12a of the Statute of the Kingdom. Several attempts have been made to reach consensus. The governments of Curaçao, Aruba, the Netherlands and Sint-Maarten have taken serious steps since the break-up of the Netherlands Antilles to arrive at a shared interpretation of Article 12a of the Statute. However, these attempts have not led to the desired result. In the note following the report, the Secretary of State for the Interior concludes that cooperation in this area has reached an impasse. Nevertheless, this proposal for an initiative will be submitted for consideration. What signal does the Dutch Government intend to send to its Kingdom partners? What is the purpose of the Dutch government? Why does it offer coûte que coûte, without any support from the Kingdom partners, this draft legislative initiative for the settlement of disputes? Since the resumption of parliamentary contacts at the Kingdom level in 2010 under the name IPKO, the issue of dispute settlement has been on the agenda. Gradually, several parliamentary delegations agreed on the content of Article 12a of the Statute. They initially set out three basic principles to be met by the dispute settlement system at least. The principles were first established in the IPKO's 2015 agreement list, then endorsed by the States of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, and finally confirmed by the Dutch Parliament in 2016 in a motion by Van Laar. Over the years, the governments of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten have also taken on this position. In this respect, therefore, consensus has been reached on the settlement of disputes. The fact that this consensus is then put aside in the Dutch Government's initiative proposal today is another point. An unacceptable point. The government of Curaçao has indicated in the 2017-2021 government programme that it will strive for a good relationship and good cooperation between all the countries of the Kingdom. For Curaçao, it is all the more important that the settlement of disputes should take place, as the number of disputes could increase due to the intensification of cooperation and the increase in the number of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u66	Before you go any further. Mr Bosman
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u67	I have to apologize. I have just mentioned the cabinet in the interruption debate with Mrs Diertens, but this proposal comes from the National Council of Ministers. So it's not the Dutch government. It's the National Council of Ministers. This includes Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u68	With a democratic deficit, yes. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u70	What we now see with the draft dispute settlement is a unilateral intention to elaborate Article 12a of the Statute. An intention which is not based on support from the majority of the countries of the Kingdom. The Curaçao government has therefore urged that the draft be retained and not brought before it, yes, Mr Bosman, in the Kingdom Council of Ministers, but it should not benefit. For Curaçao, acceptance is essential if the dispute settlement is to come about and have a chance of success. What I see happening is that, by bringing forward this initiative proposal, the Dutch Kingdom Government clearly shows that it does not respect the position of the Kingdom partners. On the basis of the latter, the question posed by the MAN Group of the States of Curaçao in the report is crucial, namely: how important is continuity policy associated with motions from the Dutch Parliament for the Dutch Government? Reflecting the State Secretary's response to this point in the note on the report, it says that the Van Laar motion is respected in many respects by the government. It can be concluded that continuity is not sacred. Van Laar's motion is not only the will of the House of Representatives, but certainly also the will of the States of the Caribbean as regards the settlement of disputes. Madam President. It is worth mentioning that the Council of State has clearly indicated the importance of supporting such a dispute settlement. Apparently, the Secretary of State is also disregarding the judgment of the Council of State. The way in which the motion supported by all the parliaments of the Kingdom, including that of the Lower House of the Netherlands, has been dealt with in the drafting of the present draft of the Rijkswet, once again underlines the fact that there is a major democratic deficit within the Kingdom. This also applies to the National Council of Ministers, to which Mr Bosman has just referred. As early as 2000, the Working Party on Democratic Deficit Kingdom noted that there was a democratic deficit in the decision-making process at the Kingdom level, as the representatives of the three countries have no or insufficient input into the drafting of Kingdom legislation and have no or insufficient control over the decision-making process of the Council of Ministers of the Kingdom. We can see that. With the possible approval of this bill today, or Thursday, I understand that the House of Representatives will strongly confirm that the democratic deficit in all the capillaries of the Kingdom must be further institutionalized. Surely that will not adorn the Kingdom. This calls for firm action from all of us. The democratic deficit must be tackled once and for all. Only in this way can there be full, equal, emancipated and administratively constructive cooperation, as the Statute for the Kingdom says very well. Madam President. When examining the explanatory memorandum to Article 2a of the Staff Regulations, it can be concluded that this Article is based on two values, namely the following. One, equivalence of countries. And two, the freedom of the countries to work together or not. How beautiful can it be? It's just a beautiful piece. In this context, I would like to quote a professor, Professor Hoogers: "Just like all Dutch municipalities and provinces, the special municipalities Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius can go to the Council of State to look at their problems with the Empire." The absurd situation is that the Dutch municipalities, provinces and special municipalities can all go to the highest administrative court, but not the constitutionally autonomous countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. Disputes may arise due to differences of understanding or conflicts of interest. Disputes that arise must be dealt with effectively and should not last long. On the one hand, there is every interest in good, intense cooperation, while on the other hand intense cooperation increases the risk of disputes arising. Article 12a of the Staff Regulations provides for this. In fact, in the past, only the power to settle disputes existed. This power was later transformed into an obligation by the motion of the special delegates Mrs Wever and Mr Thijsen. It is precisely because of this obligation and after so many years of negotiation that it is inexcusable that Article 12a of the Statute should be implemented in this careless manner. In some cases, there may be a case for legislation that cannot be supported on a broad basis. We do know that. However, in the specific case of a dispute settlement, this will go beyond the purpose of the Statute Legislator. Finally, Madam President. The supporting surface remains important. In this respect, we can agree with Professor Van Rijn: rather no law than a half-baked scheme that you will never get rid of. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u71	Thank you, Mrs Mc. William.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u72	Mrs. Mc. William was loud and clear. I'd like to see where her objection is mostly. I think this is mainly about the bindingness of the ruling. In the Netherlands and in the House of Representatives, the Council of State is a fairly authoritative body. I will deal with this in my first term. My question to Mrs Mc. William is: how does she estimate the Council of State in the Netherlands; to what extent does she still see room for the Council of State in the dispute settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u73	I certainly think that the Council of State can find a place in this dispute settlement. I refer to Article 140 on the Council of State and its chambers. That could certainly be enough room to institutionalize a room where we can settle these disputes in our kingdom body. After all, the Council of State is also of the Caribbean countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneek of the AVP Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u75	Madam President. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to participate today as a member of the States of Aruba, speaking on behalf of the Aruban people, in the discussion of the draft Kingdom Disputes Act. Mr President. Trust in justice is proportionate in all the countries of the Kingdom. Our justice is independent, impartial, expert. His statements are binding on everyone. In all areas of society, justice is respected, both within and outside the Kingdom, even though it is not always happy with the statements, which are independent, impartial, expert and valid for all. These are the characteristics of our case law. If there are differences of opinion between the countries of the Kingdom, there is no independent, impartial, expert judge who makes judgments which are valid for all countries. That is what we want to achieve with this dispute settlement. The bill submitted by the Dutch Government to this Chamber does not have the support of the States of Aruba. If it is adopted in its present form, it will not have the confidence and support it needs to be effective. The reason for this is the following. After years of studies, consultations, correspondence, meetings and discussions on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten and in the Netherlands, the parliaments of the four countries have repeatedly agreed on the objective, operation, scope and form of a proper dispute settlement for the Kingdom. But the legislative proposal now before us does not meet the wishes, principles, directives, agreements and proposals agreed and proposed jointly and separately by the parliaments of the four countries. This means that the government, knowingly and knowingly, has abandoned the repeatedly expressed wishes and guidelines of the four parliaments. Without consultation with the four parliaments and the three governments of Aruba, Sint-Maarten and Curaçao, the Dutch government drafted and offered the proposed Rijkswet at its sole discretion. Just two weeks ago, Dutch state law experts in this building repeated the criticism of the bill in scientific language. Their conclusion was that this proposal does not meet the principles of the parliaments and the objectives set out in the Statute; therefore, start again and make a completely new proposal. The reaction of the Secretary of State in charge of Kingdom affairs to all criticism from all groups was: I regret that there is disagreement, but I think that this proposal is satisfactory. Indeed, he wipes out all the criticism, not with convincing arguments, but with cold political stubbornness. To the members of the House of Representatives, who will vote on the legislative proposal in the near future, I will give this opinion: if you accept the proposal as it stands and do not make any changes to restore the content, form and scope of the proposal, then you will also say that this House of Representatives, the Parliaments of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, the professors and the populations of the four countries, who want peace and stability in our Kingdom, have all been wrong and have worked for nothing since 2010. I urge you, no, to bring about a proper settlement of disputes within our rule of law. The legislative proposal now before us needs to be amended. The Aruban delegation proposes in an amendment to be tabled amendments which would make this proposal an effective and clear arrangement, a regime that would ensure peace and clarity in all countries. I urge you to seriously examine and support the Aruban delegation's amendment. Mr. Chairman. This Chamber today has the opportunity to contribute to the further democratic and effective establishment of the Kingdom. However, if you support the legislative proposal in its present form, you will maintain the present defects and the democratic deficit of the establishment of the Kingdom. If you do not amend the proposal, you choose to continue the current construction, which does not solve conflict situations at all. You then choose to continue the unnecessary, long and time-consuming discussions that confront us all, rather than encouraging cooperation in our common future. The reasons and purpose of all discussions, proposals and attempts to arrive at a proper dispute settlement were and still are the achievement of fair and constitutionally pure relations within the Kingdom, the provision of an independent body in charge of interpreting statutory provisions, the need to settle legal disputes between Kingdom partners in an adequate and independent manner, as provided for in the caselaw, and the prevention of disputes. The current relationship within the Kingdom illustrates why a genuine and independent dispute settlement with an expert body making binding rulings on conflicts, such as the courts in the countries of the Kingdom, is so very important and urgent. Mr. Chairman. The subject of the dispute settlement for the Kingdom is too important to be mixed with other administrative matters within the countries of the Kingdom. For example, the fact that a small majority in the Aruban Parliament has made changes to the National Financial Supervision Regulation should not be a reason for you to think differently. This bill is important. I therefore urge you to separate the handling of the dispute settlement from all other important pending cases. Finally, Madam President. In his response to the questions from the four parliaments, the Secretary of State gives answers which I too have a great deal of difficulty with. I would like to discuss two of them and ask the Secretary of State to reconsider them, correct his position and inform this House of his new position. I come back to the two issues I would like to raise again. The Secretary of State acknowledges that the proposed Rijkswet Koninklijksgebouw is an extension of the proposed consultation within the Rijksministersraad and is therefore not an external, independent dispute resolution. In addition, the National Council of Ministers, in its majority, may also decide in the further consultations not to follow the advice of the Council of State. How can the Secretary of State maintain that the proposal complies with the guidelines or principles for the establishment of the scheme agreed in 2010 and subsequent years? Binding dispute resolution and independent dispute resolution are two of the key principles of the years of discussions on a rule of law dispute settlement of the Kingdom. A broad consensus has been reached on this. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State puts this principle aside and promises only an evaluation of the scheme in five years' time. Can the Secretary of State explain to this Assembly how his decision can be reconciled with respect for the representation of the people in a parliamentary democracy such as ours and with the principle of equality of all in the case law within the Kingdom? Madam President. Pending the answers of the Secretary of State, I thank you for the opportunity. I wish all voting members of the House of Representatives wisdom and a warm heart for maintaining the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sneek. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u77	I need glasses; that's what you get when you've passed the 50. Mr President, thank you. First of all, congratulations to Curaçao for the Dia di Bandera. I hope today on Curaçao has been a very nice day. I read that there were a lot of sports competitions and fun festivities. That immediately makes a nice jump and a nice little bridge to the concept of "sovereignty," because that belongs to a flag. You have your own flag when you're sovereign. Everyone knows that we of the PVV have a rather independent position in the debate about the countries and the special municipalities in our Kingdom. We grant everyone his sovereignty. That is why I liked what Mr Tjon said in his speech: we should not always want to blame the Netherlands. That's what we think. We want to blame the former Netherlands Antilles, as I often say, I do not mean wrong; I say that in order to make it all a bit easier to name it. What's more beautiful than looking at this like you do with your kids? Mrs. Mc. William also mentioned children, the children from a poem. Although I do not entirely agree with the content of the words of that poem, I agree with a number of points. How nice is it to see this when I'm just looking at my own kids? By the way, it doesn't match the poem when I say "my own children," with whom I have been blessed with my partner. There's three of them. They're three very beautiful daughters. Let me call them "Aruba," "Curaçao" and "Sint-Maarten." It doesn't go well, but I still like to tell you this. The oldest one looks most like Aruba. She wanted to be independent very quickly; so did Aruba. She tried to show that in behavior, too. The middle one is the most intelligent. I compare them more with Curaçao: very clever, here and there picking out the benefits for themselves, also rebellious and sometimes emotional. The youngest is a little too young. That is why this is not a matter of state law, but of family law. She's a total mess right now. It's a bit more like Saint Martin, but she's pretty as hell. It is very nice to compare the other countries in the Kingdom with my children in that way, because there are similarities between those two relationships. You can put them next to each other, but not quite. Indeed, we say: let us leave the Kingdom as the Netherlands and grant everyone their own sovereignty. In that light, I would like to return briefly to the discussion around 10-10-10. In the debate my colleague Hero Brinkman then put on my glasses, because I need them to be a form of neo-colonialism for the inclusion of the countries in the Kingdom. That was a small debate with Mr Van Raak, if he can remember. Mr. Chairman. Actually, not much has changed since then. In that light we also look at the state law that is now before us. I'd also like to take a look at Professor Hoogers' advice. He says that with the form in which this is regulated, there is actually an amendment to the Statute, but by means of a state law. He calls that abuse of power. I am immediately making a parallel between that statement and what my colleague Mr Brinkman said at the time: it is a bit neo-colonialism. Mr. Chairman. The best dispute settlement is, as far as we are concerned, a dismantling of the Kingdom. What is against self-determination for the peoples of Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao? 'Cause that's the best thing you can give each other, right? Why should we, as the Netherlands, deny them that sovereignty? Or is it, exactly as I said six months ago, that the former Netherlands Antilles is the favourite problem of cabinet, parliamentarians and a lot of political parties? A problem that I say in quotes, because the relationship we have together is also a challenge that should be kept especially, so that we can point to everything that needs to be better on the islands with our pastor finger from the Netherlands for eternity, because Daddy Holland knows better. Sorry, ladies feminists, it could have been Mommy. Mr. Chairman. The best dispute settlement is therefore a dismantling of the current form. I say, madly, that the Peace Palace is close, but let's never get there together. In our opinion, settling a dispute settlement by means of a Rijkswet is the source of the first dispute. That's what we can smell and feel here tonight. This will soon prove the need for a rule to exist by enforcing this state law. Its use is then a self-proofing prediction, or better: a self-fulfilling prophecy. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The only other form of such regulation in constitutional arrangements, as we have learned in the past six months, exists in the Kingdom of Denmark. But they do not have to do with the large, yet substantial cultural differences as we know them within our Kingdom. The Danes are dealing with Greenland, where two and a half men and a horse head live, and the Faroe Islands, where even fewer people live. Their regulation has never been used, but this may of course have to do with the fact that there are far fewer cultural differences. Finally, Mr President. As long as the Netherlands cannot leave the Kingdom itself, this dispute settlement makes no sense in our view. Firstly, only the Dutch parliamentarians decide, and secondly, the scheme, if it is there, actually only works in favour of the other countries. We're not going along with that. On the contrary, if I may come back to the beginning, and then I even have time left, I see everyone, just like later, when the children leave the door, their own sovereignty. Like an old Scheveningen neighbor, who used to swim in the sea every day, always used to say: 'oh, my God, you let them loose, 'oh, my God, they come back. In other words, the more love you give them by releasing them, the more they will come back to you. You'll have a very nice relationship for the rest of your life. I'd like to give it to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u78	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Arends on behalf of the AVP Aruba. I wonder if your daughters have also listened to your contribution, Mr. De Graaf. I'll bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Secretary of State, authorized ministers, colleagues, good afternoon. It is my honour to stand in your Chamber today and address the public as a special delegate of the States of Aruba. Almost ten years ago, my colleagues met in this Chamber and introduced an amendment which represented a major step towards reducing the legality deficit within our Kingdom. This amendment introduced Article 12a of the Statute, which was intended to bring about a settlement of disputes within the Kingdom. However, the discussion of a dispute settlement body within the Kingdom is much older than ten years. Many experts in the field of comparative constitutional law have no longer considered this issue with us and have shown that an authentic settlement of disputes does not mean giving away power, but rather contributes to the positive relations within the Kingdom. A real dispute settlement can be the motive to prevent disputes. Madam President. Today, ten years after the last amendment of the Statute, we are once again in your Chamber in the debate on the state law that should provide for a settlement of disputes within our Kingdom. Following the dismantling of the Netherlands Antilles and the introduction of the new Article 12a, the conditions of such a body have been frequently discussed in recent years. That notion is further developed. This provision was intended to ensure the settlement of legal disputes between countries and the Kingdom. It had to function independently and it had to pass a final judgment. As the speakers have already pointed out, the information provided by the Council of State and the constitutional experts within our Kingdom has stated that the present draft of the state law is not the solution for resolving legal disputes between the Caribbean countries and the Kingdom. Without wishing to repeat, the present draft of the State Law is merely an arrangement, not least an arrangement of existing provisions within the Kingdom, to settle disputes in a political manner. This provision, the internal appeal or the ongoing consultation, which has been increasingly undermined in recent years by, among other things, technological progress and high-speed administration, contrary to its idea in the establishment of the Statute, is merely a repetition of what was discussed at the meeting of the National Council of Ministers a few moments earlier. Everyone in your Chamber will agree with me that political disputes must be resolved politically. I am not in favour of legalising political disputes. However, I do believe that constitutional relations should not be replaced by practical solutions and political compromise. Protocols, lists of agreements which the countries with the Netherlands agree to prevent legal disputes in the Kingdom, offering as the only solution heavier politically charged national regimes with destabilising effects for the islands, should not become the new unwritten law of our constitutional order. The line between politics and law must not fade further. This blur is an important handicap in monitoring our constitutional rules. Experience has taught us the advantages of parking disputes with independent bodies, so that the relations within the Kingdom do not derail. One example is the Eman and Sevinger judgment which was submitted to the Court of Justice of the European Union on the dispute as to whether or not Aruban or Antillean Dutch people should have the right to vote before the European Parliament. The most recent example: of course, the Financial Supervision Colleges have not only been set up for financial supervision, but also to park differences and disputes about public finances between The Hague and the various capitals elsewhere. In this way the tension in the relations between Oranjestad and The Hague, Willemstad and The Hague and between Philipsburg and The Hague is discharged and there are normal relations. We often see that legal disputes arise in the discussions on what the countries or the Kingdom consider to be Kingdom matters or matters of a country and the border between them. This has already been mentioned today and has been discussed many times during the last IPKO. It is important to bear in mind that, when the Statute was drawn up, the general concept of "interests of the Kingdom" was actually abandoned. This concept existed in the land regime of the 1950s. It was intended that the governor should monitor that the country regulations adopted by the national parliaments did not conflict with the general interest of the Kingdom. Of course, the concept of "the general interest of the Kingdom" was defined politically. When the Statute was drawn up, a more narrow definition was adopted. The concept we all know now is 'Kingdom matters'. The formal Kingdom issues are the maintenance of independence, the defence of the Kingdom, the Netherlands and external relations. I do not think there should be any discussion about this in this Chamber. It is precisely the application of the more fluid concepts, the concepts that change meaning per era. Colleagues for me have also mentioned this. It is therefore a question of defining what we understand as the guarantee function of the Kingdom at a certain time. It is a question of guaranteeing fundamental human rights and freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration. It should not be forgotten that the content and definition of this concept, of the guarantee function, have been developed over the years by various constitutional experts, as well as information provided by the Council of State. The Council of State is quite clear: the resources available to the country concerned must be taken into account when assessing the soundness of governance as a guarantee function in the countries. Secondly, the mere failure of any national body alone cannot already lead to measures by virtue of the Kingdom. Thirdly, the adoption of measures can only be considered if there is no prospect of an existing or imminent unacceptable situation in a country. The Council of State therefore builds on the already existing notion of the Kingdom's affairs, as defined in 1954, and leaves little room for political interpretation or for the fact that the general interest of the Kingdom or the important interests of the Kingdom can be filled in politically. In its information, the Council of State further states that an opinion of the National Council of Ministers may relate only to cases where there are serious or imminent serious structural violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration which cannot be remedied by the country itself. For this reason alone, it is very important for the National Council of Ministers to respect the division of powers between the countries and the Kingdom, and to always consider whether the national bodies can achieve the same. In the same information, the Council of State concluded that if a country considers that an intended judgment is unlawful, the procedure known to us is open to further consultations. But as long as there is no real dispute settlement, there are no other options. That is also what the Council of State states: there are no further possibilities until adequate dispute settlement has been established on the basis of Articles 12a and 38 of the Statute. The government states in its note on the report that experience shows that developments within the Kingdom may occur in practice which justify a broader perspective than that of a single judgment of legality. I should like to ask the government for a more detailed explanation of this. Because a judge doesn't just look at the law when he pronounces his judgment: the social impact also plays a role in the degree of punishment in a criminal case. I am also curious about the government's view on this information given by the Council of State in 2015. Madam President. We must all admit that our constitutional legal order does not contain many elements besides the Statute and the various state regulations. Political tensions will always be there. The way in which we deal with disputes, i.e. by laying them down with an independent, non-political body, offers us the opportunity to concentrate on those issues in the Kingdom that should really matter. These are sustainable development, economic opportunities and the well-being of our citizens. A truly independent dispute resolution body should be seamlessly aligned with the three principles of both the IPKO in 2015 and the Van Laar motion in 2016. I am therefore convinced that the Thijsen c.s. amendment. which has been tabled by my colleagues, achieved this objective and does justice to the past. Doctor Mito Croes, State Council for Aruba, but also a constitutional expert who knew Kingdom relations like no other, has also considered this subject. In preparation for this speech, I have examined and reread ten years of emails and correspondence between us. He once used the expression: politics is the art of the feasible. Madam President. As a result of the numerous discussions we have had over the last few years in The Hague and in other parts of our Kingdom, I am fully convinced that there is much more to be achieved politically in relation to this proposal than what the present draft offers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u80	Thank you, Mr. Arends. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying that I thought Mr De Graaf's speech just now was very nice. I'm talking about the metaphor of the family he used. I think that's what made me feel appealed to me because I have three daughters, too. So I can imagine something about that comparison with the islands. We, me and my wife, have a son. He's the youngest. He was born 40 minutes later than his youngest sister. This also leads to the necessary disputes from time to time. And when I heard you talk like that, I did think that sometimes it would be wonderful if there were an independent body that would occasionally judge the disputes in our family and make a binding ruling. Well, that would help us a little bit now and then. I make this statement without having consulted my wife, but I can just imagine it. For now we are being watched, and out of our wisdom is being drawn. You try to mean something in all wisdom. Anyway, that's how it goes in a family. I think Mr De Graaf is the same. Mr. Chairman. It may also be nice to recall that this may be my last plenary performance in your Chamber during my term of office here, at Stieneke van der Graaf's place, during her absence on maternity leave. I sincerely hope that today we will come together in this beautiful and special setting. Mr. Chairman. Eight years, eight months and 23 days ago it was October 10, 2010, 10-10-10. This was an important day for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, because the Netherlands Antilles ceased to exist as a separate country, and Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, like Aruba, became separate countries within the Kingdom. This constitutional amendment also amended the Statute for the Kingdom. New elements were added, including Article 12a. That is to say: "At national law, provisions are made for the treatment of disputes between the Kingdom and the countries designated by national law." It is this article that brings us, representatives of the four countries within the Kingdom, together today. In order to avoid merely a procedural debate, my first question is to the Secretary of State, and thus indirectly to the Ministers present: are there any examples of cases from the last eight years that they would have liked to deal with through a dispute settlement? That could give us an idea of what we're talking about at all. Mr. Chairman. My group attaches great importance to the Statute for the Kingdom. It does not prevail for nothing, from a constitutional point of view, over the Constitution, and it regulates the order within our Kingdom. The Kingdom consists of four countries which are equal but not equal; that is, they are not the same. It is therefore not surprising that the countries have their own responsibility for social security, tourism and housing, but that the Netherlands, as the largest country within the Kingdom, shape all foreign policy for all countries within the Kingdom and also has a broader representation within the National Council of Ministers. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely because of these differences between the countries and the dominance that the Netherlands has in them that it is important that a common land, or if you want neutral land, is marked somewhere. The dispute settlement is an excellent place where that common ground should be visible and where that equivalence should be reflected. What's with the dispute settlement? Because this is the place to test conflicts. Fair review can only take place in an independent context in which both parties have equivalent instruments at their disposal. Mr. Chairman. My group believes that equivalence is under pressure in this proposal. I know in this observation that I am strengthened by the introduction of the various countries and experts, who informed and advised us about the present proposal during the round table and the discussions surrounding it. Professor of Dutch and European Constitutional Law, Mr Ernst Hirsch Ballin, who was the minister responsible on 10 October 2010, also indicates that the present regime does not have the equivalence that was originally intended. The possibility not to take over the ruling of the Council of State in the dispute makes it true that there is an opinion and not an opinion. Can the Secretary of State comment on this input from this predecessor of a party he knows? Mr. Chairman. In the note on the basis of the report, the Secretary of State also admits that the derogation of the National Council of Ministers departs from the original intention of Article 12a of the Statute. What does this mean, apart from considerations of equivalence in the Statute, about the reliability of governance towards the governing bodies of the islands and the inhabitants? Then why does the Secretary of State say in the report that he feels the responsibility to implement 12a, whereas rather he says with just as many words that he does not act in the spirit of this article? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group understands where the wish comes from to ask for a non-binding ruling. Of course, we must note that in recent years, also in the administrative sense, a lot has gone wrong on the islands. Of course, there is more than just the legal reality, in which it comes to governing. But where exactly does the fear of cold water come from when the National Council of Ministers would no longer have an excuse? Can the Secretary of State outline what would go wrong in his eyes? Does he have any examples of that? We read three examples of trade-offs that could deviate from the judgment, but what would be the Kingdom's interests, for example? What makes the government not sufficiently confident that the investigating body will consider these interests? Can the Secretary of State clarify what is meant by a situation in which a major interest of the Kingdom prevails over an opinion of the Section which does not indicate an unambiguous legal direction? That was a quote. Who decides in such a case that a direction is not unambiguous? Mr. Chairman. A second point of criticism on our part is the choice to invest the dispute settlement with the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom. The Christian Union has great respect and great appreciation for the Council of State, which rightly and not for nothing has much power of expression in Dutch politics. However, my group is not convinced that he is the most obvious body for dispute resolution. Can the Secretary of State indicate which other bodies have been considered? Why was it not chosen for a body which is further away from the legislative process and which actually has the independence envisaged in 2010? Would it not at least be conceivable to opt for a separate Chamber for Kingdom Disputes within the Council of State of the Kingdom? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with the last and most decisive question to the Secretary of State for us. Will it really benefit the Kingdom and the four individual countries if there is a dispute settlement that is controversial before introduction and at least in three of the four parliaments cannot count on the support of the parliament? Should we want to start a dispute settlement with a dispute? Is that a basis for trusting the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u82	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I now give the floor to Mrs Lopez-Trommp of POR Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u83	Madam President. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, as well as the former chairman of the First Chamber, Mrs Ankie Broekers-Knol, for having bothered to visit our various islands in order to understand our culture, our reality, and to talk to the people on our islands in the position you now have. I think that this is a very important contribution, just as what the members of the committee, who are sitting here now, do when they come to interparliamentary contact on the islands. It is very important to have a good communication contact and thus to understand each other. We are taught from a young age, from a small age, what the relations in the Kingdom are. We'll be tested, even before we take our country exams, so we'll finish the vwo or the havo. We need to control and understand that. Our young people receive a lot of lessons in what the reality is here in the Netherlands and of course also to learn to speak the Dutch language as an instructional language in our schools. You must be thinking, what does that have to do with the dispute settlement? Well, a lot. It is very important that when decisions are taken on the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, one also understands the social context and realizes the consequences of each decision. That is why we are here, at the moment, in the framework of interparliamentary contact. This means that over the last few days we have had discussions and discussions on various topics, including issues that concern everyone, including between the islands, such as health and education. But of course this subject had the most attention, and rightly so. The last time we agreed together, all four delegations, on the dispute settlement and how it should be resolved, was in 2015. At that time, the four delegations from the various parts of the Kingdom agreed. We are delighted to have signed the agreement list, with the idea that this could, of course, be a solution or contribute to the Kingdom Conference that would take place. Now we're in 2019 and unfortunately that didn't happen, but we're back here together again. In this case, we have stayed here as special delegates to make our contribution to what is now on the table. We consider it important, because of course we also experience the consequences of these decisions or national laws as a person. We can say that we are going to talk about strictly legal disputes, sec legal disputes, purely legal disputes, but of course that has a context. We're all politicians. We were chosen by the people. We must, of course, also defend their interests and they must be able to understand us. I stand here as a politician, but also as a wife and mother of two children. Often I present our problems to them, and I can guarantee you one thing: our children are millennials and will never understand the current dispute settlement. Millennials and children of this age, who are now born, have new thoughts and new visions. Here's what's important. It is not a subject today, but I would like to mention it as an example. When Parliament and the media were occupied on Aruba for weeks by discussions about, for example, registered partnership that dominated for weeks: for, against, yes, no, all kinds of discussions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Of course I explained. Then they said, "What's the problem?" I explained the thoughts of the community and of the different groups in the community. It may also be the case with a dispute settlement problem. Then they said, "Well, if that's the problem, then I don't see a problem, because that's got to be possible." Then one put the headphone back in, and the other one, who put on her gay pride-t-shirt to school the next day. I say that because we have to realise that we are not just talking for our generation. We must also make decisions for future generations, for children, for young people. In a number of years we may not be in this position anymore, in this chair. But what we are about to decide today or Thursday has consequences for generations. It is therefore important to consider the social context, which the Presidents have taken the trouble to get to know better. That is very important for the whole Parliament. It's not always just about purely legal disputes. What's pure? What's strict? That is sometimes quite open to interpretation. The Disputes Committee could say that a dispute is not entirely pure, which could be subject to conditions and conditions. But I must say that, in view of the amendments we have tabled today, I rely on the expertise of this Committee on Disputes. I trust she will formulate what is really 'purely legal'. Of course, they have to define that. For at least 20 years now, because I have been in politics for 22 years, a lot of discussions and talks about a weather between the Caribbean and the Netherlands have led to sometimes very intense arguments. Sometimes with legal arguments, sometimes with very emotional ones. Sometimes you can't take the emotion off, because we're people. Everything we decide has implications for the daily lives of our citizens. Reality is this. If you add up the inhabitants of the Caribbean, we are often approached by the Netherlands.They will say: they are barely half a million inhabitants, and we are 16 million! That's not the whole point. In the Caribbean, we are part of the Kingdom, although we are physically in a region where there are of course other influences, including cultural and educational et cetera. And of course they all contribute to our decision-making. I would like to mention a few examples of how our people experience our differences or disputes sometimes or often. They don't know what happens in these chambers between lawyers or between politicians in chambers. But they find that, if there is a dispute, for example, there is intervention in a particular portfolio, that the government gets a hit on the hand, that there are discussions about protocols or that there are going to be KBs. Let me give you just one example. Last but not least, the CAft is taking action, the financial supervision that we have, of course, experienced in the flesh, not only in debates, but also in heated discussions to burn down Parliament and with shootings. Those are emotional reactions. Why am I saying this? Because we can say: we are going to talk about sec financial issues, but there are always relationships between people and the way we treat each other, despite all the hard agreements we make. The psychological perception. What is seen here as order and logic is, of course, true, but often you also have the thoughts about autonomy and respect and the discussion about interference. Those are very different discussions. It is important that there is political will for what we are discussing today. That is the most important thing, that we all support it and that we really want to resolve disputes. Despite the fact that we are discussing sec legal disputes today, I think it is very nice that I see an amendment devoted to mediation. Because that means more attention to the psychological communicative aspect, without us flying each other equally into the legal hairs. The legislator cannot always anticipate the future disputes between the various parts of the Kingdom and in this case between a Caribbean country and the Netherlands or the National Council of Ministers. The future will, of course, reveal that. What we saw, what happened in the past. The nature and content of each dispute can be so different and so different. In any case, it is important that, despite all our asymmetrical relationships, we all have the attention and the will and the effort to work together. That is the last aspect I would like to emphasise. The IPKO, the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation, which we are now in, used to have a very clashing character, because it was about political relations. In recent years, we have chosen, consciously chosen, to work in cooperation. If you decide that, if you have that in mind, if you agree to work together to come to the solution, I think you can get the right input and at least we could resolve our differences, differences of opinion, without perhaps reaching a legal settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs Lopez-Tromp. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The various speakers have already discussed the history of the dispute settlement in detail, so I am not going to do that. However, I must of course refer to my colleague Roelof van Laar, who co-founded a motion in 2015, with the support of almost all parties, in which three issues were highlighted very clearly, namely independence and bindingness, particularly in relation to legal conflicts. The last one, which I myself would like to add, is whether there is support for a dispute settlement. After all, it's been going on for so long. For me, the most important considerations for the dispute settlement now before us are those two elements. First of all, there is no support for it now. This is also reflected in the contributions that have been made. Ronald van Raak started with that, but we also see it with the other speakers. As far as I am concerned, the second element is that it is now too non-binding in the sense that it is not sufficiently binding. The third point is independence. Mr. Chairman. I could now conclude, for the sake of clarity, by saying that this does not support the dispute settlement for me, but that is not what we are here for. None of us know exactly how we're leaving this house tonight. Either it doesn't get support and then we're back to square one or it gets support, but then with a moderate majority and then I don't think we're very happy either. Or an amendment will make it, which will enable greater support to be obtained. I would actually like to join the first call made by Mr Van Raak: let us see how we can step over our own shadow. If there are any objections, among other things to the amendment I tabled together with Mr Thijsen and Mrs Diertens because I want a degree of bindingness and a form of independence, I would like to hear their arguments. Let me specify: then I am talking about the important interests. The reply in the note to the report set out three reasons why it could not be entirely binding. They were talking about a coup, in my words, a natural disaster and great financial consequences. Could the Secretary of State translate this into the amendment that is now before us? What are the objections to this amendment versus the serious interests reflected in it? Let me also deal with the questions that Mrs Diertens received. In fact, I think that an administrative judge does take context and situation into account. And when it comes to a designation by the Council of Europe, our administrative law is stronger in that, but that also takes into account the context, so even if there is an AIV investigation, because then you have a message of office at your disposal. Once again, I want to be convinced by serious arguments, but they must be legally valid. The current administrative law has sufficient scope and opportunities to take account of the social context in the present and future. In addition, it is just as flat as it is actually a traffic light model. It is binding, but in the sense that it goes back to the National Council of Ministers. It's not like the board judge is gonna fill in the details of how to read it. I would also like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. As I said, there is a good chance that this evening will fail if we do not reach an agreed solution. Either we're grumpy, and then nobody's happy, or we're gonna step over our own shadow tonight. Perhaps we need a little extra time to do so and at another time we can come to a supported amendment. I hope we'll be able to do that together tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u86	If anyone in this room has a shadow, it's me. In this context, I would like to ask Mrs Kuik if she could give a little more thought to where she sees the possibility of finding that space, also in view of the amendment she has tabled. Where's the room in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u87	As I said, I attach great importance to the commitment. It's pretty essential to me. At the moment when you can give some thought to that in any way, because the Secretary of State comes up with arguments that it is really too narrow, I am prepared to talk about it, but then one really has to come up with good arguments. I have also looked at Mr Bishop's amendment, but I think that is really too lean, because that only says: explain yourself. I think that's too limited. That commitment is heavy and firm for me. That must be an important component. Administrative law is one of the elements in it. If you can decorate that in a different way or in addition, then I want to look at it, but then it really must be a serious attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u88	I would like to ask you a little bit more about that. Could it be a "binding, unless" for you? And if so, what could that "unless" be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u89	I am willing to see what a "binding, unless" could be, but then it needs to be very narrowly defined, very narrowly grasped, and it should not be able to be used constantly as an escape. And it must be acceptable; I am not alone in this house. It's something you're gonna have to do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u90	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u91	I'm in the shadows, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u92	That's not like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u93	We have not all spoken out yet, but if my political feeling is a little bit right, then this is very symbolic of our dispute settlement and the discussion about it, in the sense that Mr Thijsen's amendment could be supported by 75 people in this Chamber and 75 people disagree. I'm really trying to figure out how to break that down, how to make something that we're all very happy about and happy about tonight. I would like to wholeheartedly support the amendment, but I see the major problem that does not really exist legally. The experts we consult also all say that there is always a political component. Is it not possible to deal with this in that amendment? If it is also a political interpretation, can we not give the National Council of Ministers some room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u94	I can't figure out how to do that right now, but I have that space. But I'm not alone in that. I have co-signed the amendment, so I am also looking at Mr Thijsen and Mrs Diertens of the coalition party. I really want to offer that space. Again, I want to prevent us from leaving this house tonight and all of us may be happy for a moment, but not in the end. It must be something serious and something that can count on support. Because if it isn't, then my conclusion is clear. Then I support the amendment that I have tabled, which then remains unchanged, and then I vote against the dispute settlement as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u95	Of course, the Secretary of State is also listening and watching. Maybe I could take a look at him over Mrs. Chicken's head, too. Isn't there anything possible? In his first term, would he like to think in advance about the possibilities for an amendment that can be supported by everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u96	Via Mrs. Kuik again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u97	I think it is a good question from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u98	That's what I thought. Those MPs! Mrs Diertens, you are a co-signatory of that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u99	Yeah, that's right. Maybe I can also go through Mrs. Kuiken to the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u100	Oh...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u101	Yeah, it's a little annoying. What I think is important and what I have been dubbing very much about myself is that Article 51 gives a crack to have the last word in very serious cases. I would like to go a little further on that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u102	Yes, but you are not going to interfere with each other about amendments that you yourself have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u103	I have heard Mrs Diertens ask this question in her term. It is a very fair point and a question. This is in line with a request for reflection on the amendment we have made. Mrs Diertens has long and wide-ranging thought about this together with a number of other parties. That's what we did. Again, I do not see the obstacles either as they were introduced in the first term by my colleague. You may pass the clock, Mr. Chairman. That helps. Then I'll finish right away. So this does not have to be counted as an answer. These are legitimate questions and concerns. At the same time, they are really asking for a serious answer. This also gives room for us to see where we might have to move in order to amend the amendment. It wasn't poured into concrete. I am convinced that everyone here in the Chamber will eventually want to get out, because if we are all empty-handed, then no one will be happy. Then for the next ten years, we'll be arguing again instead of solving things. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. This is a disputa. I don't know if I'm making it all right. I'm still in the Papiamento learning process. I think we need to look much more closely at how we get to media, mediation, intermedia. That also requires something in the pre-work. This requires that we do not let everything be settled in a dispute, but that the National Council of Ministers also thinks carefully about how we prevent each other from entering such a process. Eventually, that also calls for konfía. Kónfia? Thank you. I'm learning to stand up. That requires trust in each other to continue building the bonds that we are now creating. However we end tonight, I would like to call on us to continue to hold that word with each other, even if we continue in the debate and if we start thinking about amendments that can help us further. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u105	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. It is indeed a good thing to finally discuss this evening a proposal for a Kingdom dispute law. This is an obligation already included in the Staff Regulations in 2010. The fact that nine years later one finds that there is a proposal at last indicates that there has been a lot of bumps along the way. The question is, of course, whether we will be able to deal with the proposal before us this evening. Unfortunately, many years of discussion about the dispute settlement have not prevented this proposal from still giving rise to a dispute between the Government of the Kingdom and the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying out loud: the SGP considers it important that such an arrangement is widely supported. Without broad support, there is no regulation. Then it doesn't work. In particular, such an arrangement should be as independent as possible. For if the dispute settlement is not uncontested, the outcome of the dispute will not be satisfactory either. The SGP considers that the scheme may give rise to confidence in the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom. As far as we are concerned, the key question for tonight is: how should the Council of Ministers consider the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State in the event of a dispute? As far as we are concerned, this is clear: that judgment should be binding, binding. You should not want to get into a situation where the Kingdom has a dispute with one or more of the countries and that the Kingdom, in a disappointing statement by the Advisory Section of the Council of State, can say: we are still looking for our own route. This would undermine both the Kingdom's relationship and the position of the Department of Advice. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who wishes to settle a dispute properly must ensure that a proper settlement has been made in advance. In an attempt to increase support for the dispute settlement, I therefore today have the amendment to item No. 16 (35099-(R2114)). As far as possible, this amendment is in line with the two existing regulations, which are always referred to in the documents: the Cooperation Agreement guaranteeing plans of approach land tasks Curaçao and Sint-Maarten and the National Financial Supervision Act. This amendment derogates from the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State to a high exception. It is only in very serious cases, where, according to the judgment, there are other grounds of legality, that it is possible to depart from that argument. In addition, this is closely linked to Article 12 of the Statute, where the Council of Ministers is also bound by the outcome of the consultation. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this point. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is also necessary to look at whether the scheme is being used properly. That is why we also have the amendment on item No. 17 (35099-(R2114)) to link the evaluation assessment to a number of points which should at least be addressed. In particular, we have looked at the way in which the exception has been used to deviate, which our other amendment has included. Both amendments are, as it were, a diptych in order to make the equivalence of the dispute partners much more firmly anchored in the law. Finally, four other points. First of all, a question about the meaning of the last part of Article 8 of the proposal. I quote: 'and also take into account all the relevant facts and circumstances that have arisen following the request for judgment'. Can the Secretary of State indicate in what cases new circumstances can lead to a deviation? And isn't this too easy a pass to deviate from judgment? Secondly, there is no possibility in the present proposal to withdraw or suspend a dispute resolution request. My question is simply: wouldn't it make more sense to just make this possible? If a country comes to the understanding that there is no dispute on second thought, then you will take it with both hands, I would say. A third point. At present, the other countries of the Kingdom cannot actually ask the Advisory Section of the Council of State for information. Why not? This, too, could improve coherence and binding. Would this not be a good addition to the existing possibilities of using the expertise of the Council of State? Finally, the question of the position of the Minister responsible. If the Prime Minister decides to block a dispute resolution request, he or she has no option of going to the administrative judge, for example. Why not? What are the objections to this? I would also like to have an answer to these questions. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u107	I have a boundless admiration for the SGP, which has always been so incredibly well-educated by state law. I have one question: what does Mr Bishop think of the Prime Minister's power to prevent disputes as described in Article 1, second paragraph?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u108	We are not enthusiastic about this either. I expect the Secretary of State to respond to some of the questions that have been raised. We will also take that into account critically in our voting behaviour when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u111	I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u112	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a law that the Caribbean countries as they now look do not want. It may even be a law that Dutch parties do not want. It is a law which is being amended, which is in doubt and which is whether it is actually possible to implement it. While it is a law that is especially good for the people of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. The countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten should be on the benches of enthusiasm. But no, the Caribbean countries are more and more not in the mood for the law. I am talking about the National Financial Supervision Act and the Aruba Financial Supervision Act. The countries make it clear that they do not want to give substance to monitoring as agreed. Governments do everything in their power to get out under surveillance, or the States will. "Delay is needed," "Our economy is in ruins," "We just had elections," or "The elections are just coming." That was just a short list of things that ensure that the agreements on financial supervision have been a source of annoyance for nine years and have been difficult to implement. While sound financial management and good public finances are at the heart of a better society in the Caribbean countries. With sound financial management, it is possible to improve the living standards of the inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. But what answer would I get if I asked the ordinary man or woman on Aruba, Curaçao, or Saint Martin on the street what they thought of the dispute settlement and whether they thought it was important? Will this dispute settlement improve education? Is it going to boost the economic opportunities of the people of the countries? Is she going to improve the safety of the inhabitants? The answer to these questions will be no. At the same time, I have to say that the commitment of the States of the various countries to the settlement of disputes is very intense. The importance of the dispute settlement seems to be greater than the interests of the economy, education or safety of the inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao or Saint Martin. It's not about financial supervision today. That's right. But what this is about, or what the VVD thinks it should be about, is responsibility. Who is responsible for what within the Kingdom? The Statute is very clear on the one hand, but on the other hand there is a great deal of room for interpretation. That's what all countries use. Let me be very clear about that. The Statute has become a cafeteria model. Mrs. Pauletta said so. Governments and parliaments have less guidance on where the responsibilities lie. Because the frameworks of responsibility are unclear, we now have the idea that we are quickly disagreed about who is responsible for what. This limited definition of "responsibility" is the basis for the disputes that exist. He's not gonna settle a dispute settlement. But it's a good thing we're talking about a dispute settlement. Then it remains a fact that these disputes arise because we do not agree on where the responsibilities lie. The VVD likes to see that differently. The dispute settlement must be the culmination of all the efforts made within the Kingdom to come together. Mr. Chairman. There are plenty of possibilities. Cooperation may take place on the basis of Article 36 of the Staff Regulations. That says: The Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten give each other help and assistance. It can also be based on Article 37 of the Statute, which states: The Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten will consult as much as possible on all matters involving the interests of two or more of the countries. For this purpose, special representatives may be appointed and joint bodies may be set up. Or it can be based on Article 38, which states: The Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten can make arrangements between themselves. For me, these articles are at the heart of what Professor Hirsch Ballin said at the round table and at the plenary session of last week's Interparliamentary Kingdom Conference: working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u113	I would like to go back to the point where Mr Bosman pointed out all kinds of problems that people in the Caribbean Netherlands are working on, and he said that they have absolutely no idea what a dispute settlement should be. Do you not agree with me that even if you were to ask that question here in the Netherlands, there would be several problems, and that we and the citizen should not mix them, because we are dealing here with the legal status of an arrangement? There are problems, I don't want to deny that at all, but is that the basis for a dispute settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u114	I'm kind of missing the way Mrs. Diertens wants to go. I don't think it's entirely clear what she's trying to say. That is up to me; let me put it first. But maybe she can repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u115	Maybe she can explain that herself. I got it. I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u116	I understand there are a lot of problems in the world. There are problems in the Netherlands and there are problems in the Caribbean Netherlands. But we have legislation to regulate it. I might be able to do it with an example. Suppose Hungary says: we do not care about all the rules and Minister Orbán decides everything. You wouldn't agree with that, would you? That is why we are a democratic country, because we are trying to lay down things in regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u117	I think I am also dealing with regulation, but I am concerned about a number of things. It is not "Caribbean Netherlands," it is the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom: Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. But we make agreements and are constantly talking to each other about the question: what do we want to achieve together? We make agreements, and we have to observe over the last nine years that these agreements are not being fulfilled, over and over and over again. Good financial management, I repeat, is important for the future of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, just as it is important for the Netherlands. That is why the Netherlands has external supervision, that is the European Commission. And that is why it would be good for Aruba, who thinks otherwise, but also for Curaçao and Saint Martin who do have external supervision, to do so. However, we still see that countries, states, are constantly trying to evade that supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u118	It is clear that Mr Bosman is dissatisfied with how the countries deal with their responsibilities. But it strikes me, listening to Mr Bosman for a year and a half, that he is always talking about responsibility and never about common interests. Eventually, the word "working together" came to mind, but you're getting a list of responsibilities for who and what. That's not a basis for cooperation, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u119	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, It's essential to understand whose responsibility is. It would be weird if you didn't know what your responsibility is. So how do you work together? Why don't you just make an appointment about who's responsible for what? Who else are you talking to? It is often said that we are all responsible. If everyone's responsible, it's nobody.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u120	We are responsible for common interests. For what we share, everyone has responsibility. But I hear so little about working with countries. Even if they ask for help from the Netherlands, see the refugee debate we have had with Curaçao, you will continue to call on whom is responsible. That has not taken you a millimeter further in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u121	This is very special to me. Then who is responsible for the refugees? Or am I responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u122	You too! It's a joint responsibility, so you're also responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u123	I think it is an interesting discussion, but we are all responsible for an area of four autonomous countries within a Kingdom where we have a Statute whose preamble says that we are all equal. And then suddenly I have a responsibility on Curaçao that wasn't given to me? Let's keep it sharp. I'll be right back to the statute, which doesn't work. We're not clear on the arrangements. Mrs Özütok can appeal to me for my responsibility for what is happening in Curaçao. I find that very special, because that would be unfair and would undermine the autonomy of an autonomous country in the Kingdom. Each time in the discussion can be said that we are all jointly responsible, but that does not fit within the Kingdom. There is no horizontal responsibility and there is no horizontal agreement. It's special, you know. I just mentioned three possibilities where we can work well together. If there's a question of help, I'll be the first to wonder if we should offer help. But I do say that I will come back to that in a moment. Whoever asks a question is responsible for the right question and implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u124	Finally, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u125	Finally. How does Mr Bosman see the co-responsibility of everyone in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u126	"Co-responsibility" means that it begins with someone who is responsible. The point is that we have four autonomous countries with a responsibility to take decisions within their autonomous territory. If they need help, these autonomous authorities ask their questions. That's just how it works. We can continue to talk about the fact that it is not happening properly and that we have to deal with it differently. I totally agree with that, but the Statute must be different, because that does not work. I will come back to that later. The way we're sitting here right now, it's pretty clear it's not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u127	Mr Bosman is able to extend every discussion and debate we have on the islands to the functioning of the whole of the islands separately. I do not believe that this will help the purity of the debate. That is certainly true in this case, where it is legal. Then there is my substantive question to Mr Bosman. This question is about the dispute settlement. What does the form of the dispute settlement matter in the case of the problems he mentions? I'll turn it around for him, and that's the question. Imagine if the rulings in that dispute settlement were binding. If it is all as bad as Mr Bosman is saying here today, would it not be very helpful if such a ruling is binding? The Dutch Government or the Kingdom Government shall give a ruling. We tell each other we don't agree with that. Then the verdict simply says: it is binding, so you have to abide by it; that applies to all countries in the Kingdom. Well, that just helps, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u128	I have also mentioned an example of something I am concerned about. If I have two conflicting interests that both rule and are both of a legal position, that conflicts with each other. If I have that conflict, I'm not gonna get out of it. I have now asked this question several times, both in the round table, in which four lawyers were present who said "we don't know," and during the IPKO, where I didn't get an answer either. I asked Mrs Diertens this question, and I did not get an answer from her either. I'll put the question to the Secretary of State in a moment. Tell me. These are matters in which the hard commitment gives me a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u129	We can apparently differ on the interpretation of the round table. However, my question to the VVD is that I asked colleagues earlier on what points for the VVD there might still be room to come together today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u130	I've been through the history of the dispute settlement. You notice there's quite a harnessed position on all sides. If we think we need to get together, maybe all the spins will go off. It's possible. But at the moment I will come back to that in a moment too, I say: if we start again, we will be ten years further. Sometimes it's better to have one bird in hand than ten in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u131	I see you standing, Mr. Tjon. It is customary to ask a clarifying question at the end of the contributions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u132	It's not a problem, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u133	...but you're still standing there. That is why I now give you an opportunity to ask an informative question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u134	It's a question of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u135	We're listening very carefully to what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a clarifying question. It is not about financial supervision today, but I still want to link it to the dispute settlement. I think it's important to show understanding. I really want to understand Mr Bosman in this. I can see from your words that you find it difficult for the Aruban Government to make the final assessment of an opinion from the College of Aruban financial supervision. If I then make the link to the dispute settlement, I ask: why do you not find it difficult for the National Council of Ministers to have the final say on an opinion on an independent body?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u137	And that's what you call a clarifying question? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u138	I'll explain. Financial supervision is a supervisory function. It's really weird when you put down a supervisory function with the one that's being supervised. That's a butcher who approves his own flesh. That's really weird. The National Council of Ministers is above that. That's the essence. So that's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u140	Mr. Chairman. The essence of these three articles, Articles 36, 37 and 38 of the Statute, is that the person who wants or needs something is responsible for the proper wording of the request, and that it must also be clear who is responsible for its implementation. This responsibility is not always clear and can also shift over time and change ownership within the Kingdom. It's happened before. The VVD therefore considers that a dispute settlement is only really effective once the debate on responsibility within the Kingdom has been completed. However, a final assessment of this discussion may take a long time to come. There is now a dispute settlement as proposed by the National Council of Ministers. I'll repeat it again. It has been regularly said that it is the Dutch government, but it is the National Council of Ministers of the Kingdom. That arrangement is ahead of us. Apart from everything I have said before, I would like to conclude that it is a good thing that this law is now in place. It's been a long time. It is a source of irritation and disappointment among many involved. We have also often discussed a possible dispute settlement in the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. The fact that it has been discussed so often and for so long also says something about the sensitivities. Let me be clear: it is not the perfect solution for any of the countries. There is a compromise proposal. We do the poldering here on the Kingdom scale. I have asked in various discussions with experts about the dilemma of contradictory statements by different authorities, Mr President. I have not yet received a definitive answer to that question. I'm gonna put him in front of the Secretary of State again. If the European Court of Human Rights instructs the Kingdom to intervene proactively in a human rights situation in one of the countries, the Kingdom that carries out designation with a designation, and then the country concerned enters into a dispute and wins this dispute, for example because there is still a redres in the country itself, then how is the knot being cut? Could the Secretary of State please report this? That is one of the reasons for us to say: beware of making it binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u141	Mr Bosman referred to a meeting with experts Hirsch Ballin, Van Rijn, Oostindie, Hoogers and Karapetian here in the Lower House. At that time we asked the question rather intrusively: "Is this bill to be saved? Can we still work on this?" To my surprise, they all said, all five of them, actually, no, we have to start over. It scared the hell out of me. Mr Bosman was shocked by that, too. We now have two amendments. I do not think there is a majority for either, but there are elements that might help us. It may be a bit legislative, Mr President, but I'm just gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u142	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u143	Mr Thijsen's amendment refers to the Section for Administrative Law. Mr Bishop's amendment gives a different meaning to 'being binding', namely that there may be derogations if there are grounds for judgment other than those of legality. Is it an option for the VVD to make this a combination, so that on the one hand the opinion can be consulted by the Administrative Court Section, and in principle binding, as Mr Bisschop says, but leaving a small gap for reconsideration if there are other than legitimate grounds on which the judgment is based? Is that a passable road tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u144	As far as the Administrative Department is concerned, I have difficulty with that; let me be very honest with you. The moment the judge gives a ruling on... You'll get some kind of constitutional review; I get that feeling. That's what I'm worried about. I think that's unwise. That does not fit in with our order, because a judge will then rule on something that actually has a political context. With regard to Mr Bishop's proposal: in principle, the cabinet is already doing so. The cabinet says, if there are serious judgments, we don't follow it. In principle, the National Council of Ministers assumes that we follow the judgment, follow the dispute. That's how we're gonna get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u146	As far as the VVD is concerned, we are opposed to a binding ruling by a dispute settlement officer who can put the Kingdom in an impossible position. I welcome the role of the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom, which would be perfectly capable of advising on the possible disputes. The VVD did, however, have questions about the gravity of the possible deviation from the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State to the National Council of Ministers. I ask the State Secretary: how does the National Council of Ministers guarantee what is important and what considerations play a role in this? Mr. Chairman. I must also note here that it is better to be the enemy of good. There's a proposition. Let's get to work, as I've said before. Doing is thinking new, I'd say. We only have an idea of what can be done better when we get to work on the arrangement. The VVD then wants a good evaluation, covering all aspects. So we are talking not only about the times when the procedure has ended, but also about the times when this has not been the case. The latter may be problematic, because it concerns the functioning of the National Council of Ministers. Officially, I think we won't have a look at this for another 25 years, but I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he sees a good evaluation and what possibilities there are for it. Mr. Chairman. I repeat this more often: it squeaks and cracks in the Statute. The statute is sanding on all sides. It is an agreement that was made in 1954 and was intended for cooperation, Mr Van Raak also said it with a country that was many times larger. The Netherlands had 7 million inhabitants and Indonesia had 60 million. The Statute can only be amended on the basis of unanimity. I realize that adjustments will always be about loss and profit for parties. Parties don't want to lose anything, they want to win everything. But the Statute must be different, otherwise the dispute settlement will not resolve what is at the root of most disputes, namely the question of who is responsible for what.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u147	A brief question to colleague Bosman. I am pleased to hear him say that the cabinet is actually already doing what is regulated in the amendment I have tabled. I note that it is perceived by a number of colleagues as enlightening, clarifying. For Mr Bosman, this means that there is no objection to supporting that amendment. Is that a correct conclusion, or am I too optimistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u148	No, I don't take legislation lightly. I think that is also true of Mr Bishop. At the moment when the cabinet has a clear story and does what it says and whatever the amendment says, I think it is unwise to simply submit an amendment for clarification. I would regret that, because then we will change something about the law while it does what the law is asked to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u149	That's a little too easy to solve. The aim is not to ensure that everyone is convinced that the proposal before us does what it is intended to do. So we have an amendment to that effect, so that I can follow your own reasoning for a moment. The legislation is going to do what it has to do. This is also experienced by colleagues: hey, this is an opening. Then it is wise to take this as a basis and say: okay, then we go further, then we get to business tonight and then we get a good law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u150	I am listening very carefully to Mr Bishop, but we do not agree, because I think that what the National Council of Ministers has said in the proposal before us today, namely that it is only for serious considerations that the opinion is to be deviated from, is clear. Perhaps I should listen carefully to what the Secretary of State is going to say, but as far as I am concerned, the addition of Mr Bishop is an increase, a deepening or a broadening, when we are actually saying that it is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u151	These are two articles: Article 12 of the Staff Regulations and Article 12a of the Staff Regulations. In 2010, the Kingdom Government amended the proposal for Article 12a. We believe that the Secretary of State's proposal is not satisfactory and does not give substance to Article 12a. Do you share the same opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u152	Mr. Thijsen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u153	And if you have that opinion, can you explain to me why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u154	Mr. Thijsen, we've just agreed that we're just asking informative questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u155	So the information I want is his explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u156	A very brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u157	I believe that this proposal, presented to the Chamber by the National Council of Ministers, has sharp edges. I absolutely agree with that. That's what I said. Is it perfect for everyone? Certainly not, but I think we should get started. I think it's important that you build case law in the cases you do. Of course, a lawyer will say he prefers perfect legislation. I understand that, but we're sitting here with a political constellation where we have to wonder if we're ever gonna get that perfection. If we know we're never gonna make it to perfection, then you have to wonder what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u159	I am of the opinion that doing is the new thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u160	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u161	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u162	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u163	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the people of Curaçao on the Day of the Flag. Congratulations, not only on those who are here in the Chamber, but also on all those who are watching with us. I would also like to express my thanks to the delegations of Aruba and Curaçao, who are not only here now, but who came to the Netherlands earlier this spring to inform us, let me say positively to take us with them, and I think we should move a little bit forward too, but that is also your right to do so. In any case, it is very clear what your position was and what all the pluses and minuses in this whole proposal are. I would also like to say a word of thanks to the professors, who have already been mentioned several times, who have informed us. Mr. Chairman. After three hours of speaking time by previous speakers, I do not have the ambition to give enormous new points of view. It's more of a state of affairs from my point of view. Over the last few days, I've been trying to find a way that was passable to everyone. I haven't found that road to my deep regret. What good and useful would it have been for us in the Kingdom to come to a common position on this important subject, which has been on the table for some ten years. For we agree that a dispute settlement can only work really well if there is support for it in all countries. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a final effort to this end tonight. I am very open to anyone who sees opportunities for reaching a compromise, but after my last weekend I suspect that there is no broad support. I have considered putting forward an amendment myself. That was based on a new division within the Council of State. This was based on a binding judgment of the Council of State, with a number of limited options for the government to depart from that judgment. Suggestions have just been made as to whether the SGP proposal could not go that way. But I have not been able to find broad support for that proposal. In fact, representatives of the countries have strongly advised me not to submit this. An amendment must provide a solution; it must not be an additional problem. That's why I didn't file it. Mr. Chairman. The essence of the discussion surrounding this state law is the binding nature of the opinion of the Council of State, in any section. That's what the discussion is about tonight. The Thijsen c.s. amendment assumes a binding opinion, not the bill. It also talks about which section it is, but the core is whether or not it is binding. I am, of course, curious about the reaction of the cabinet to the amendment, but for the time being, as a CDA group, we are choosing to follow the government's line. Our position includes an explanation of why we deviate from the line set out in the Van Laar motion, as we supported it in 2015. At that time, as a CDA group, we signed the three principles: independence, bindingness and legal disputes. Independence and legal disputes are governed by this state law, not binding. Once again, of course, we would have liked to have reached a compromise on this point, for example less freedom for the government to deviate and more framework, but that was not possible. But there are two reasons why we support the government in non-bindingity and why we do not vote in line with the Van Laar motion. If you will allow me to mention those two points, Mr President, then I will hold back for interruptions. The first reason is that the Statute itself does not discuss the equivalence of countries within the Kingdom. On that basis, the Statute floats. If you go through that line, you'll end up with an arrangement where independence and commitment hit the drum. The CDA Group has also listened carefully to all the experts in this respect. But equivalence must be more than a principle. It has to be more than a rule on paper. It must also be an attitude, a practice, a way of doing things. Without wanting to spoil the evening and the atmosphere here, I must say that as a CDA group we think that we are not there or we are not there yet. In fact, it seems as if we have been going backwards at this point since 2015 rather than forward. That is the real problem that is being raised here tonight. In this respect, I am also increasingly interested in the discussion that Mr Van Raak raised initially and later on by Bosman, namely that we should put the fundamental question on the table as to how the responsibilities in the Statute have been invested and what the future of it is. I do not expect miracles from that, because that will be as much a discussion as we are having tonight. But we will have to have that confidence and have that discussion with each other. A second reason why, as a CDA group, we distance ourselves from the previous position on the basis of the Van Laar motion is that there should be support for a dispute settlement, not only with the countries, but also with the National Council of Ministers. I fully understand that the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin must feel senang with the National Council of Ministers, but the same applies to the Government of the Kingdom and the Government of the Netherlands. Apparently, they don't feel that way and then it's the way it is. I'm holding back now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u164	I had a small question about the enormous shadow of Mr Van Dam. He was talking about that earlier this evening. He now also mentions that shadow in his contribution. These are the CDA Group in recent years and a CDA Minister, Hirsch Ballin, who was at the basis of what was finally agreed in 2010 and later. What the CDA Group is doing now is actually jumping back over that shadow and perhaps heading in the wrong direction as far as I am concerned. My question to Mr Van Dam is: how do you estimate that? You can't just hang that up on the situation right now, can you? 'Cause you do. You say that we have been backdated since 2015, but in 2010 the situation was not much different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u165	I didn't see the situation in 2010 myself. I honestly feel more connected to explain here why we voted differently in 2015 than we would do now. Then I'm not speaking for the Secretary of State. I'm speaking for the CDA Group. What exactly the considerations were in 2010, I don't know, but then there was so much going on. There were so many other aspects at the time. I find it complicated to make a comparison with that. The essence of the story is that we all know how some developments in the Kingdom are going right now. They were also appointed tonight, so left and right. That is absolutely what has been playing a role for my group since 2015 in looking at the issue that is going on here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u166	Thank you for that clear answer. Respect for that, I'm sure. I do think that the period from 2015 to now is very short in order to be able to make that assessment. 2015 hasn't been that long. If I have seen it correctly, only the groups of the VVD and the PVV voted against the Van Laar motion. The CDA was very much in favour of that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u167	That is right and that is why I justified myself here behind this microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u168	I have a brief question concerning Mr Van Dam's question on AIVD and state security. In the current legislative proposal, the Council of Ministers can decide for itself when there is a significant interest. That's a very big free pass. Does Mr Van Dam agree with me that the Council of State should be involved in assessing whether there is a major issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u169	No, I disagree. One of the choices expressed in the Van Laar motion is that these are legal disputes. Let me give you some reasoning in line with your amendment, Mrs Diertens. So you're gonna end up with the Department of Administrative Law. So you're talking about administrative law. A board judge only has room to consider policy in relation to some kind of general principles of proper government. In this case, perhaps these are the general principles of proper government. That's a marginal review. That means there are limits to that review. The idea, which I also read in your proposal, that that section of the case-law can examine all these policy things in it, is simply an incorrect interpretation of the role of the administrative judge. In that respect, therefore, I completely disagree with you. I also think that the path that is being taken here is very dangerous. Mr President, I shall continue. The CDA Group will follow with great interest the course of this debate. We hope that the participants will not only be aware of statutory purity, but also of political reality. For a few days now, I have been haunted by the proverb "I'd rather have half an egg than an empty cap." The amendment, the positions of the highly educated lawyers, the position expressed by a number of respected colleagues here, assume that a complete egg is available here today. I myself would have been very happy with half an egg as an encouragement to continue with each other, because there we have a profit to make. We're on the road together. Working together on all the interests in our kingdom. I'm afraid we're leaving tonight with just an empty cap. If politics is the art of the feasible, then I'm lost. In this state of affairs, I am considering advising my group to finally vote against the full legislative proposal. That's because you better not have an arrangement, an empty cap, than half an arrangement. That's a struggle I'm gonna go through tonight, sitting in my bench. I would like to explore further the possibilities of looking more fundamentally at the division of labour within the Kingdom. I do not expect miracles, but that is very important. Someone said that too: in the atmosphere in which we talk to each other in the IPKO, that should be a theme. Because this equivalence and how we put it into practice is really a subject on which we still need to have a few serious discussions. Mr. Chairman. I have said before that we in the Kingdom are related to each other. I had the impression that Mrs Pauletta took my speech well at the time, for which I am very grateful. Family doesn't let you go, and you can't get rid of that either. I like to come, despite the fact that I may disagree with our Aruban and Curaçao friends, to all the parties and funerals to be a family together. And it may well be that we are discussing a dispute settlement today, but above all let us continue struggling with each other in order to further develop these family ties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u170	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Finally, I give the floor to the Minister responsible for Saint Martin, Mrs Wuite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u171	Mr. Chairman. I'm the fence shutter. I know that the first speaker had asked direct questions. At the same time, I do not want to dwell too much on all kinds of current developments in the respective countries. I am very clear here to think constructively and to be optimistic. I think, to make a small correction to the first speaker, that is also reflected in the first amendment. That was indeed not only signed by Mr Thijsen in this case, but also by Members of Parliament. So that's hopeful. I would therefore like to say in particular that we are talking today about the Kingdom's Law. Parliamentarians from the Kingdom, you have come together to discuss this proposal. And before I begin my speech, I would like to highlight once again the importance of this moment in other words. I believe that this is the largest, most discussed and most important debate in the Kingdom that we have had since 2010. For me personally, partly in view of my background and also of the fact that I certainly have some characteristics as a Kingdom child, I find it very special to be here and to be able to represent my country. Unfortunately, the State Members from Saint Martin are not here today. As important as the subject we are discussing today is, they had to give priority to other matters of national importance. Fortunately, in the run-up to this plenary session, the members of the States of all Caribbean countries have worked well together. The noses are in the same direction. Given the history of the proposal, that is not surprising either. The parliaments of all countries within the Kingdom have worked very constructively together on this issue. They've taken the lead, and you've taken the lead. I think that's worth a compliment. A compliment is in order. Unfortunately, this cooperation at government level has taken place to a slightly lesser extent. You were able to read that in my letter, which I offered last Friday. It shows that there has been a little more soloism in this process. I regret that, but I would also like, above all, to point out, as an authorised minister, that I would like to contribute to improving that point. Not only do we have to look at interventions that impose something, but we will also have to be more and more able to work together. I, too, have a role in this as a member of the National Council of Ministers. We also see that the administrative resources and instruments at our disposal can be used more actively. We considered it important that Saint Martin, as one of the four autonomous countries within the Kingdom, should also be represented. Article 17 of the Statute gives me the opportunity, as an authorised minister, to attend the oral procedure and, I quote, to provide information to the Chambers in such a way that he considers 'he' to be desirable. And indeed, let us say that steps have been taken in the right direction since 1954, as Mr De Graaf mentioned earlier about moms and dads. Mr. Chairman. You have already made it clear from my input at the expert meeting that took place and from my letter last Friday: Saint Martin said that it cannot agree with the proposal that is now before us. It does not comply with the mandate given to the Kingdom Government by the Statute Legislator in 2010. That mandate was crystal clear: dispute settlement on interpretations of the Statute must be conducted by an independent body. It is also crystal clear that this proposal does not meet this requirement. This has also been concluded by the Sint-Maarten Advisory Council, as well as by the legal experts that your Chamber has heard about this proposal. What do we have to do to comply with Article 12a? I repeat, first of all, there must be a binding dispute settlement. I think we can see that this is the most controversial issue, as we have seen in the debate today. That's not surprising either. This point was and is crucial for the Caribbean countries. The same goes for Saint Martin. For decades we have been talking about the democratic deficit. Will this be resolved with binding dispute resolution? Of course not, but it does help to remove the sharp edges that Mr Bosman talked about. Is it gonna be fixed? No, but by providing for a legality test for decisions of the RMR, those sharp edges of the democratic deficit are indeed more polished, so to speak. The Secretary of State also referred to this in the note on the basis of the report. However, binding dispute resolution is a prerequisite for this. In this context, our Advisory Council discussed procedural justice. This means, among other things, that decisions must always be adequately and independently reviewed. Final dispute resolution by a political body in which the difference also arose, in this case our National Council of Ministers, does not fit in with that. If an independent body indicates that a decision is not legally satisfactory, it is logical that it should be abandoned at that time, even if, for example, there is a "only" procedural defect, for example when it comes to hearing all the parties concerned before decision-making takes place. Then every government, and in this case the Kingdom Government, will have to do its homework again. I therefore agree with Professor Hirsch Ballin that it is important to review decisions in relation to Kingdom law. Legal control is not something we should be afraid of. The adoption of binding dispute resolution is a strong signal to all within the Kingdom that the Kingdom Government respects the legal limits of its powers. I know there are a lot of concerns in this Chamber. Are the authorized ministers not going to initiate a dispute procedure for every so-called wipe-up? Doesn't this put the government of the Kingdom at a standstill? Of course, this is something the Caribbean countries do not want at all. Binding dispute resolution should go hand in hand with conflict prevention. A dispute procedure must ultimately be the ultimate remedy. In this respect, we can invest much more in other methods and interventions available to us, in line with culture. The proposal provides for the possibility for the Prime Minister of the Netherlands to block the examination of a dispute by the Council of State if a major interest of the Kingdom requires immediate decision-making. There is a fear that this barely claused power may undermine the dispute settlement. There is no need for such a right of veto in order to promote rapid decision-making. Why not provide for an urgent procedure? The National Council of Ministers may then be convened at any time to take a decision on the basis of an urgent procedure, in accordance with the rulings of the arbitration panel. Mr. Chairman. The proposal also opts for the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom as a dispute settlement body. Let me point out, of course, that the Advisory Section is invaluable to us as the Kingdom. Indeed, the information and advice, both requested and unsolicited, given by the department on our state-of-the-art constellation, very often show us the way. However, bearing in mind the remit of Article 12a, is the Advisory Section the appropriate body to settle disputes within the Kingdom in a binding manner? Mrs Karapetian also spoke about this in her contribution to the recent expert meeting. The Advisory Section advises, whereas Article 12a provides for an opinion. Those are indeed different tasks. Mr. Chairman. We are looking for a compromise at the same time today. This means that several parties will indeed have to add water to the wine today. However, I think it is important to say something about the scope of the proposal. Maybe that's another point. National laws and general measures of state administration are not part of the dispute settlement process. Several experts have indeed indicated in the discussions that AMvRB's in particular are instruments that allow the National Council of Ministers to intervene in the autonomy of the countries. It would therefore be appropriate to consider in the coming years how a dispute settlement under which the AMvRBs will not fall functions. That seems to me a good point to take, for example, with the evaluation. I would therefore like to conclude by saying a few additional words about the evaluation. In order to achieve a substantively strong and complete evaluation, it would be appropriate to present a number of frameworks to the Secretary of State today in one of the amendments that have now been presented. I would like to ask the Secretary of State and through him his successors, if any, to focus the evaluation not only on the disputes assessed, but also on situations where a dispute has not been brought into proceedings, and to assess whether there is a reduction in the duration of disputes, both objectively and in the perception of our countries. It is also important that all interested parties are heard about the clarity and manageability of the procedure and that they are explicitly consulted at such an evaluation stage. Finally, I ask the Secretary of State to send the views of the Caribbean countries on the evaluation report as a contribution to that report to the parliaments. Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives, and in particular the delegates, are now in the process. In the end, only the House of Representatives will vote on this proposal. That is the way it is regulated in our Statute. I would ask them, particularly on behalf of Saint Martin, to stick to the mandate set out in Article 12a of the Statute in 2010. I am optimistic that your Chamber will do so. As the Minister responsible, like the special delegates of Aruba and Curaçao, I do indeed have the opportunity to vote against the proposal put to the vote, as provided for in Article 18 (1) of the Statute. Unfortunately, however, I cannot imagine that it will come to this, precisely because the parliaments of the Kingdom ruled on an effective and legitimate dispute settlement years ago. That is why I am an optimist, even though I understand from the discussions that it is very exciting, the hope and the expectation that the line that has been deployed will continue today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u172	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u173	I'm going to formulate very well. The Minister responsible for Saint Martin was very clear: this law is not acceptable to Saint Martin. Has the Minister responsible objected and used the continued procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u174	That is, of course, an understandable question. I've been in office for one year, and like you, I'm learning, too. That means that based on moving insight, you can sometimes have moments that reflect once again. That's important. At the same time, I would like to state that the National Council of Ministers is being treated confidentially. So I am not going to go into detail on exactly what was going on. I don't think that's appropriate. That's not my place. In this respect, I shall stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u175	And I think Mr Bosman knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u176	Yes. The third point I would like to make, Mr Bosman, is that this is precisely why this dispute settlement should be organised in a different way. For the perceptions, the feelings, I think also the factuality, determine precisely that that continued consultation in general remains in the same hands. This can help us to feel that it doesn't matter. Regulation in a different way can mean better trust, a better basis for making use of these better instruments. Would I do it again next time? That may be a discussion we'll have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u177	Thank you. Mr. Arends.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u178	Thank you, Madam President. I think I may have been in this job for too long, but all three governments then expressed their objections to the dispute settlement to Minister Plasterk, so what is now being dealt with by Secretary of State Knops and the States. He did not bring it before us, but his predecessor, Minister Plasterk, and at least the Government of Aruba has made that very clear, and if I am not mistaken, please, also by the governments of Saint Martin and Curaçao. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u179	Then you have made this point clear. Thank you, Mrs. Wuite. This also brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber and on the part of the special delegates of Aruba and Curaçao. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u180	We will continue with the debate on the Kingdom's Law and I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom's Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to extend a special welcome to the delegates from the countries of Curaçao and Aruba. Sint-Maarten is unfortunately not present, but we have heard the reason. They're on important business right now. Of course also a welcome to the members of the House of Representatives. I would particularly like to wish the people of Curaçao a very beautiful Dia di Bandera. The Minister responsible has also been appointed. He's tried to see the best of both worlds today. I was able to attend it myself last year. It is an impressive happening that each of the three countries has and also in the Netherlands there are these kinds of happenings. They say a lot about one's own identity, about one's unity, and with that, I think, are also an inspiration to reason from one's own strength. Mr. Chairman. It feels a little uncomfortable to start talking about a dispute settlement on such a day. It's kind of like when you get married, you say to your future wife, "Let's take a look at the terms on which we can break up." I'm a co-worker myself. I would also like to invest in this cooperation. On the other hand, I have met people who want to cooperate in the last year and a half. Now we come to a subject that, having heard the contributions of the various speakers, is rather complicated. One of the things that I found when I was allowed to do this very beautiful portfolio was that in 2010 the Staff Regulations included an obligation to provide for the treatment of disputes between the Kingdom and the countries by state law. Now, almost nine years later, some things need time, and we are finally going to debate this in this setting to see how we can fulfil that obligation. Within the National Council of Ministers, it has been decided to submit the present legislative proposal. That does not alter the fact that you have also seen that the authorised ministers are questioning its content. It is also their right to put these questions into the debate. I will also try to address their concerns about the link between the response of the various participants in this debate. Although I speak formally and legally on behalf of the Kingdom Government, it will be clear to everyone that my story mainly expresses the position of the Dutch members of it. That's no longer a secret. The Dutch narrow section endorses the ratio for a dispute settlement as it was given at the time in 2010, in the explanatory memorandum to Article 12a, namely that the effective representation of common matters by the Kingdom would benefit from the fact that conflicts arising over this advocacy do not persist for too long. In 2010 this was also linked to the realisation that the increase in the number of countries, from three to four, and the increase in cooperation between these countries and the Kingdom would increase the likelihood of such conflicts. At the time when I am now in charge of this portfolio as Secretary of State, I have been able to experience in various situations and cases how complicated it is sometimes to come together with the various partners within the Kingdom. We're still on the same page here. Someone's in the back. I would say 'come in too', also to point out that we also work very well together. This can sometimes be accompanied by disputes. We don't have to keep a secret about that either. The government proposal before us today recognises that in such cases it may be desirable to involve an independent third party. The proposal aims to introduce this independent third party in those places where it is not already provided for. The proposal also recognises that the opinion of this independent third party is the most desirable in terms of the legal dimension of a difference of opinion. Finally, the proposal provides that a dispute procedure may be brought to an end relatively quickly, so that the Kingdom's administrative capacity is not at stake. Over the past few weeks and months, there have been several criticisms of the proposal submitted by the government. This criticism is mainly of a legal nature. This criticism can also be made from the Dutch part of the Kingdom Government, I can tell you. However, with all the appreciation I have for the contribution of lawyers to the proposal, I would like to put another, equally legitimate, claim to that effect on my part today. It is a story that gives the dispute settlement a place in the larger whole of all dimensions in kingdom relations and also does justice to the political-administrative side of kingdom relations. This story also explains the government's choice to include a number of safety valves in the proposal. These safety valves are only available for use in exceptional situations. In short, it comes down to the following. This proposal should, under normal circumstances, provide for what the countries are asking for. That is to say, a dispute settlement that is applied when requested, in which the judgment is followed by the parties. However, within kingdom relations and everyday reality, we should not be naive. That is why this proposal also takes into account abnormal circumstances. I will come back to this in my contribution. Mr President, since I know you like cubes, I will structure my contribution today on the basis of a number of cubes. First of all, I would like to comment on the support and the cork mentioned in the debate: the Van Laar motion from 2015. Then I would like to address questions about the possibility of the National Council of Ministers to depart from the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State. Thirdly, I would like to say something about the power of the President of the National Council of Ministers to decide that the dispute cannot be resolved. Fourthly, I would like to discuss the scope of the proposal. As a fifth, I would like to say something about the procedure itself, in particular the choice of the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom as an independent third party. As a sixth, I would like to say something about the evaluation. Questions have been asked about this too. In conclusion, I would like to make a few comments on the various amendments, which I will also discuss in the interim when they are discussed. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with the support and the Van Laar motion. Many speakers have noted this and I think it is right. If you look at the playing field in this way, it is a bit strange that you should start the debate on a dispute settlement procedure, which is the case, at least that is how I listened to it in the first period of time on the part of the Members. I have to say honestly: acceptance is very important to me. This is always worth pursuing in such important proposals. But even if there is not or is not complete, I have the responsibility of being responsible within the Kingdom Government for kingdom relations in a broader sense. I have read and heard all the contributions, and I have to say that there is no sign of acceptance, particularly in the Caribbean countries. That is a pity, but I see no reason to leave the government's path. I will explain this in a moment in my further speech, because Article 12a of the Statute calls for an obligation to settle disputes. I see it as my political and constitutional responsibility to implement and implement it. It's been there for almost nine years. I did not think it was a good idea, including the IPKO and the views of the various parliamentarians, having heard in the last period, to stick to that for another nine years. That would really be an embarrassment for the way in which we work well within the Kingdom. When you hear the debate just now, you would almost think that all these countries are in constant conflict with each other, whereas this arrangement is a kind of ultimatum remedium, which should only be applied in the last instance, after having had a normal consultation, after you have invested in each other, as we have done over the last year and a half. As promised to IPKO at the time, I presented the proposal of the National Law by the end of 2018 and, as requested, sent the note in good time following the report to the Chamber and the countries, so that we can discuss it with each other today, in accordance with that broad shared wish. To those who say that they have been skipped or that there is no democratic debate, I say that this debate is taking place here today. And there have been many exchanges of views in recent years, which in itself does not mean that we are all in agreement. That's what we've been able to see and hear. Anyone who would be tempted to see acceptance as a demand creates a new situation in which each of the parties has a right of veto to say that he or she does not want it or wants it otherwise. It is precisely in a situation where the views of the Dutch members of the Kingdom Government do not correspond to those of the countries that we are talking about now that this means that we should wait even longer for a dispute settlement to take place, and we therefore have nothing at all. In any event, the presentation of this proposal has made it possible for everyone to express their views and, if necessary, to clarify them. That is what we are doing by holding this debate. I think that's a win in itself if you consider the past almost nine years. But then it is up to the legislature of the Kingdom, together, to determine what is in the greatest interest of the Kingdom. In concrete terms, does this mean that we remain stuck in ongoing negotiations or are we going to start and evaluate as we go along? So we're gonna get to work, see how we're gonna apply it and be open to improvements. In itself, an attitude that everyone recognizes from everyday practice. The fact that this does not fully satisfy the operative part of the Van Laar motion is correct. I have acknowledged this, also in the note on the report. But I am not doing this lightly, and I would like to point out that a large part of the Van Laar motion is reflected in this proposal. I would point out that the regulation is limited to the legal dimension of disputes and that disputes are assessed by a High College of State, with Caribbean representation. And unlike my predecessor's proposal, the National Council of Ministers has not only to take into account the opinion of that High College, but the RMR also follows that view in principle. Only the possibility to deviate from such a judgment in serious cases is a deviation from the Van Laar motion. But that is what I have said before. Mr. Chairman. In this context, a number of speakers raised questions on this point. I'd like to answer those questions. First of all, Mrs Diertens and Mr Arends asked themselves the following questions. The Advisory Section of the Council of State has been critical of this proposal. This was followed up by an information campaign in 2010. In itself, it is true that the Council of State was critical at the time, but now there is a new judgment from the Council of State. This was partly based on my predecessor's original proposal and was then reviewed by the Advisory Section. It issued a positive operative part in 2017. Although the section had reservations on some aspects of the proposal, it was broadly in agreement with the proposal. Following that opinion of the Council of State, the proposal has been amended in a number of areas. In autumn 2018, I consulted with a delegation from the Advisory Section of the Council of State on these changes. This consultation, which is intended to check whether there are any objections from the Council of State, did not give rise to a new consultative process in the section. After this the way was open for submission of the bill by the government. Mrs. Mc. William has asked the question how important it is to have the continuity of wishes attached to motions of the House of Representatives also succeeded by at least the Kingdom Government. In general terms, as I can say in the presence of the President of the Chamber, a motion is an appeal to the government to do or leave something. It's always up to the government to indicate how she's carrying out that motion. After that, it is up to the Chamber to say whether that motion has been properly carried out. I acknowledge that the motion has not been carried out 100%, but I also acknowledge that it has been carried out for the most part. This proposal provides for the assessment of legal disputes and the use of a High College of State. I would also like to stress that the proposal is compatible with the text of Article 12a. This does not require binding dispute resolution. That is not the case under Article 12a. Although comments are made in the explanatory statement, Mr Thijsen spoke about this, it is not the case that the legal text itself is already expressing its opinion on a totally binding unconditional dispute resolution. Mr Thijsen and Mr Tjon made the point that the government would ignore the intention of the Statuter in 2010, at least that is the political position. My answer to that is that I do not agree. In 2010, the government, the RMR, declared its intention to set up an independent body to settle legal disputes regarding the interpretation of the Statute. The present proposal is also in line with this intention. I have already indicated that the line is that these opinions are being followed. In certain situations this will not be the case, but I assume that the extent to which room is found to invoke that exception will immediately affect the way in which the legislative proposal will be drafted in the future. That's part of the evaluation. There is, therefore, a disciplinatory effect in order to be able to apply that derogation. This will not be taken lightly because the principle is that the opinion should be followed. Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks asked how I expect the final decision of the RMR to be implemented in other countries now that the proposal cannot be accepted. Whether the proposal will lead to an effective and authoritative practice of dispute resolution will have to be awaited. So this is also addressed in the evaluation. I can say predicting words about this, but that will have to be learned in practice. In any case, I am convinced that this proposal contains more than enough ingredients for such a practice. I would almost say that we have the day-to-day cooperation we have with the countries of the Kingdom. As far as accession to the official dispute procedure is concerned, we already have a regular discussion or disagreement about something that we are trying to find out. A certain attitude precedes that. I believe that Mr Bosman said in his speech that everyone feels that responsibility. I can feel that in daily practice. I will mention a number of examples that make me less happy, but the basic attitude is that we are trying to get out. I think that is important to note, because in the contributions of a number of Members the emphasis was very much on the negative side of this proposal and the doom scenarios. There wasn't much trust there. If you create a state dispute settlement law with a comprehensive assessment clause.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me make the comparison with the couple that is going to be married in any form, with what gender that is, let me ignore for a moment; that is equally irrelevant, in which marriage is postponed for two years because the partners do not agree on how they might break up. That is a bit of a weird thing that does not relate to everyday practice, at least not as I see it. The fact that there is now no agreement and that a number of Members and Members have called for a movement is the question of who should make that movement; let me say that both sides should do so, or that should be done from several sides, because there have been several insertions I am not relieved of the responsibility on the basis of Article 12a to properly implement the introduction of a state dispute settlement law. Article 12a states quite clearly: "At national law, provisions are made for the treatment of disputes between the Kingdom and the countries designated by national law." That's what it says. We're nine years later now. I feel that this is a very important subject and that this is a very important debate, but the idea that everything that has happened over the last nine years has not happened is an idea-fixe. We feel sorry for the reality that exists. In general, you could say that the longer a discussion on a state dispute settlement law takes, the deeper the positions become and how difficult it might be to get together. There is someone here on behalf of the Kingdom Government, however, with the comments I have just made on the position of the authorised ministers in that meeting, who has the attitude that we should use a moment to see if we can start with this state law as it stands. I will be the last to say that it is perfect, because it can be looked at from different angles, but we should still make the move to get to work with it. And we need to thoroughly evaluate that law, because that is, I think, very important. That brings me to the end of the first block, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u182	Between 2010 and 2015, negotiations were held between the four governments. I ask this Secretary of State precisely because he was not there at the time, so he can look back. What is the main reason why the four countries did not get out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u183	Of course, I have not been in those negotiations, so it is always difficult to make a sort of Solomon's judgment. But in 2010, when this was decided, there were many images of how the Kingdom could develop, and still few experiences. Now we have more experiences, and compared to those images you could come to different positions. I now have one and a half years of experience; I see the strength and weakness of the Kingdom. I also see the dilemmas and the debates we have here. So I see that everything has happened, but I think there is now, in 2019, a moment when we need to look at what binds us instead of what separates us. You can emphasize the differences, and there are. I just mentioned Dia di Bandera. The beauty of the Kingdom is to me, unlike Mr De Graaf, who left now, at least not in this Chamber anymore is that his own identity has its charm. You then reason from your own strength, but also always have that image that we are part of one Kingdom. If you have that attitude, then you should also be able to step over the differences that are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u184	The Secretary of State says: I simply have to submit a law for a dispute settlement here, because that's just the law. That's the deal; I have no choice. I can still respect and appreciate that at a very high level. Only, now the Secretary of State says: let's do it, and then we'll see if we can make it something that all countries trust. I do not have the experience that this works with legislation, especially when it comes to disputes, so you have to recognise and endorse all four of them. All four of us here must leave the House of Representatives very enthusiastically about the new dispute settlement, because otherwise it will never work, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u185	Whether we should leave this room very enthusiastically, I'll leave that in the middle. But if Mr Van Raak asks me what we should do, I would say: give it a chance. I say that because I believe in the responsibility of all the parties involved. If there is an opinion from the Council of State, that is something that is not there now, in the current arrangement of the continuing consultations. I am convinced that this opinion will work as a cleansing act. Whoever deviates from that advice has some explaining to do. That may be the case in certain situations; I shall say something about this in a moment. What are the odds? We're really zooming in on the differences right now. I think it doesn't happen very often and the fact that it could happen eventually makes everyone relate to it. I have absolute confidence in that and the safety valve that is still in it is that you can simply check in the evaluation: how many times has it happened, what have the effects been and should we make an adjustment? Instead of being completely theoretical about it, I come to the practical examples I mentioned in my introduction. You have the legal reality, there are lawyers who have also spoken about this in the direction of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and at the same time there is a political reality. I'm dealing with both. I cannot just relate to that legal reality; it is also about that political reality. I believe that I have to weigh both in terms of the balance, and that is why I think that the proposal can be defended. The RMR thinks so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u186	The Secretary of State begins his argument with the observation that there are mainly legal arguments, or he even said: only legal arguments are put forward here. He's taking us into history. I have also made a point in my contribution to the reliability of governance. I can also go back to history, to 2010, with Minister Ernst Hirsch Ballin. It was nice that he was here, during the round table meeting, and that I could ask him about the man: was this, as it is now, how the Dutch government intended it at the time? His answer was very simple: no. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan kan ik niet anders dan concluderen dat in die negen jaar het standpunt van het Nederlandse kabinet is gewijzigd op dit punt.]] Why has the Dutch cabinet changed its position when it comes to the independence and the bindingness of the opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u187	As I have just said, there were assumptions made in 2010 when Mr Hirsch Ballin was active. New regulations have been introduced, and some of these assumptions have been made and others have not. I just need to take you to law enforcement practice in the countries. From now on, in 2019, it will be difficult to judge the integrity of the balance at that time. It can be very integrity, but you can come to a different conclusion nine years later. That is why I say: there is a legal reality, which has not changed, and there is a political reality. We have to take that into account. There are more examples, including in parliamentary history, even about a shorter period of time, that other positions have been taken because the circumstances are different. However, the basic statement, namely Article 12a, which says that a dispute settlement system is needed, is in force. That is also my answer to Mr Van Raak: that is what we need to do. Unless we all say "but I hear no one say "that we should not let the whole dispute settlement go through." That is the empty cap, which has also been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u188	The intention is as far as I'm concerned to get out, and if possible tonight. Absolutely. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State does not really answer the question about the reliability of administration. The intention of the Dutch government was then: binding advice from an independent body. I do not yet think that the Secretary of State and the Cabinet have made it clear, not even in the note following the report, what events over the last nine years have led to a change in that reliability of administration, the intention that was there then, to the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u189	In order to maintain the order of my blocks, I will come back to Mr Drost's question, including examples. I'd like to answer that. So that reality has become different, making the sincere intentions... Mr Drost talks about the reliability of administration, but I do not want it to be so heavily loaded. The same applies to the Van Laar motion. In the Chamber, weekly motions are passed. Sometimes, the following year, motions are adopted that either nuance the previous motions or disprove them. That has to do with other majorities and other insights. That is the political reality of everyday life. The point is that if you look through the legal glasses at this dispute settlement, you could reason from A to B in a straight line. If you take the political reality into account, you might want to build in those safety valves. That is not a question of an entire battery of valves. There is also a accountability obligation when you apply it or not, but I will use a number of examples to show that there are indeed grounds for doing it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u190	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Mc. William, like Mr Thijsen, but for clarifying questions. You may not engage in a substantive or political debate with the Secretary of State. Those are the rules. Mrs. Mc. William.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u191	Perhaps you should correct me, but I would like to know from the Secretary of State the difference between acceptance of a provision in the Staff Regulations and acceptance of legislation. I think that's like comparing apples and pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u192	Support is support. This generally translates into votes and views that are displayed, for example, in this debate. That can change, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u193	I think the Secretary of State is missing the spirit of the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u194	You didn't actually see this, did you, Mr. Thijsen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u195	That's right, Madam President. But I have an informative question and I would like a clarification. The Secretary of State is talking about a political reality. I would like to make it clear whether we share the same opinion on a case of a political reality. In 2010, the Kingdom Government took a decision on the Common Court Consensus Law. It was based on Article 38 of the Statute. At some point, Aruba said she wanted to talk about the seat. Then the Kingdom Government said: no, we are now applying Rule 43 (2).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u196	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u197	The Council of State has said that it cannot do so, and has also given that opinion. Then the Kingdom Government, the Prime Minister, at the time Mr Balkenende, said: Mr Thijsen, you are right, but being right is not right. Is that political reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u198	This was a very informative question; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u199	Yes, very spacious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u200	That was a case from some time ago, which I understand Mr Thijsen now wants to project on the proposal that is now before us. I can only repeat what is now before me. That is that the opinions of the Council of State should be followed, unless. So the main rule is to follow unless. Then the debate about being right and getting right becomes quite different, especially if you are going to evaluate, because then it becomes clear, even afterwards, in what situations the way in which has been acted. It is therefore a completely verifiable process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u201	I am going to intervene anyway, because it is really not the intention to have a political-content debate. That's really not the point. That's reserved for the MPs. I made that clear at the beginning. So now you really have to stick to the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u202	You're right. The amendment deals with bindingness, which is why I asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u203	I shall now turn to Mr Thijsen's amendment, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u204	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u205	Of course, I have great respect for Minister Hirsch Ballin at the time. What surprises me, though, perhaps the Secretary of State can shed some light on that. If the cabinet at the time felt that it should be binding, with all the conditions that were then ventilated in that way, why didn't there be a dispute settlement at the time? That's pretty special. If everyone agreed, there was clearly something that we could not reach at that time, on 10-10-2010, a dispute settlement. I'm surprised. If Mr. Hirsch Ballin says "we were all in agreement," then there was something that couldn't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u206	Now Mr Bosman is asking me about it. I understand the portee of his question, but anything I would say about that would in a way be suggestive. I wasn't there. So I do not know what the exact considerations at the time were not to do so. All I can see is that everyone thinks it is an important subject. That is why I feel responsible to come up with a proposal now. I could have said, "We'll leave it at the station." It's all very complicated, but okay, we have complicated cases all the time. This is something that I at least feel is important to everyone. Then you have to try to come up with something at least... well, applause doesn't have to, but you have to say: let's get to work; let's evaluate it. Then we are going to be able to see that at least further than in 2010, because this is the first time that such a proposal of state law has been dealt with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u207	I share the Secretary of State's observation. I think that's clear. I think there was something more going on on 10-10-2010 so we did not agree on the dispute settlement right then. I will also take a look myself, think back, dig back and perhaps talk to people from that time, to see exactly what that reasoning was why it didn't work out at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u208	I just wanted to come back to that support. We have heard again here today that there is no support for the country's spokesmen. We have heard the same statement from the scientists and also from the statesman Hirsch Ballin. It indicated that there should actually be peace-making elements in such a dispute settlement. There is an important support for this. Instead of listening to these wise words and acting on them, I hear the Secretary of State say: let us move them forward; let us include them in the evaluation. This when we already know that if we go down this road, this may already have a conflict in it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look again at that support or perhaps make a proposal on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u209	I have already said a few things about acceptance and its importance, but I do not want to make it an absolute sine qua non, because that would mean a veto for anyone who says: this is not what I want, so we are not going to work on it. I've been trying to take you with me for the past nine years. There's been a lot of talk about it. The emotion and intensity are getting bigger and bigger. One member asked: how often is this applied? I hope we will talk about something that we are never going to apply, so to speak. That's what it's actually made for. The purifying effect should be that everyone in this house should continue to relate peacefully to Mrs Özütok's words. I believe that Mr Hirsch Ballin has also pointed out earlier in the direction of your Chamber that the system we now know, for example, in the Statute, where there are only red and green, should also be added orange. I'm very sorry for that. By the way, we are already doing this in practice, because using only the instrument of an indication without accompanying measures rarely leads to something good. In this sense, you see the actual application of the provisions of the Staff Regulations in practice. In any case, I am talking about the time when I am responsible for this and I am also committed to actually extending the instruments. That's something Hirsch Ballin says. So I'm listening very carefully to some people talk about that. But that's another thing than saying that 100% acceptance is an absolute condition. In view of the legal history of this proposal, I fear that this would not be so simple. However, the alternative is that there is no support and there is nothing. Then we'll fall back into the situation we're in. I hear people say: then we have to look at it again and you name it. Then we'll be a few more years. I sincerely hope that we can come up with something that we can work on and which will enable me to implement that amendment on Article 12a, which calls for the design of a dispute settlement system. But if you look at what is now in the Van Laar motion, you will see that the majority of it is in it; not everything, but most of it is. Then you come to the question whether the glass is half full or half empty. And do you see that assessment clause for anyone who is now working on this dispute settlement, as a stick behind the door to be aware that it does not really help if you abuse it, because that is actually the concern that a number of Members are expressing here, because that will then be corrected in the evaluation? After all, I do not hear anyone here saying that these safety valves should all be open to the maximum. I will say something about this later, even in the assessment of the Thijsen and Others amendment, but I believe that this is the essence of the proposal that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u210	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u211	Then I'll come to block two. This is a question of how and when the Council of State would be able to depart from its opinion. One of the safety valves is the power of the National Council of Ministers to depart from the judgment of the Council of State of the Kingdom on serious grounds. I understand perfectly well that everyone is looking for where that limit is. In the note on the report, I explained the kind of situations in which this competence could be used. Let me make that even more concrete with a recent example. In Aruba, there is currently a stalemate about the adaptation of the LAft, the Aruban law governing financial supervision. The States of Aruba want to adapt the LAft by a majority in such a way that the Kingdom Government no longer has the means to exercise supervision. This is contrary to agreements made by the Aruban and Dutch governments. We're talking about an ongoing case here. I cannot, therefore, entirely argue about what that would mean, but this seems to me to be an abnormal circumstance. I am probably not saying anything surprising when I say that the possibilities for intervention on this point are also explored in my department in case Aruba would continue on the path taken. Try to imagine that such an intervention would take place and that there would be a dispute settlement without a safety valve. In that case, any legal dirt or process step, however small, could be used to frustrate intervention. If that would lead to an unconditional binding judgement, a new decision-making process would probably have to be re-launched to achieve the same, but without this legal imperfection, however small. A new decision also means a new round of dispute resolution. In other words, months go by, unrest on the financial markets, creditworthiness plummets, the conditions under which Aruba can finance its debt are becoming increasingly unfavourable, interest rates on ever-increasing interest rates. A political and administrative balance can also be achieved in such cases, again, I do not anticipate the fact that we are not leaving Aruban society to its fate and that swift and decisive action is being taken, if necessary ignoring the judgment of the Council of State of the Kingdom. This is not least because there is a real chance that sooner or later the account will land somewhere in the Kingdom. I have a hunch where that might be. That is precisely why I am in favour of a dispute procedure whereby the opinion of the Council of State is simply followed under normal circumstances, but I cannot ignore the fact that the type of abnormal circumstances I have just outlined must also be taken into account in the scheme. Then the story of the assessment remains. In the end, the application of this is also subject of assessment. This can be done transparently. That is the first example. Mr Drost raised the question of whether there were any other examples to illustrate that there are situations in which it is important to install safety valves. Let me give you another example. That was a situation shortly after the devastation of Hurricane Irma on St.Maarten. At that time, there was a threat of a very chaotic situation in which public order was seriously put to the test. In those days the government of Saint Martin was hardly accessible and it is thanks to the efforts of the armed forces and the citizens of Saint Martin that the situation did not get out of hand. In that situation, it was conceivable that I would not ignore the fact that in some way the Kingdom Government in Saint Martin would have intervened. Suppose this intervention had subsequently been challenged in the RMR and the dispute settlement would already be in force. We are talking about the dispute settlement as envisaged in the Thijsen amendment. Would it have been acceptable under those circumstances that a legality judgment of the department had prevented the Kingdom from retaining Saint Martin for total chaos? Just to be clear, I'm working on a think exercise, but I'm trying to make it concrete on the basis of examples. Fortunately, intervention with a clue or otherwise from the Kingdom has not been necessary, but as a situation, the days after Irma, in my opinion, illustrate very well why safety valves are required. Let me give you a third example. As you can probably remember, the airport of St.Maarten balanced on the verge of bankruptcy a few months ago. Moreover, the financial situation is still worrying, but in February of this year there was an imminent risk of collapse. And I'm not talking about the physical buildings, I'm talking about the finances. Once again, you will not be surprised that I examined what our options were for intervention, because standing aside in situations like this and looking at how things are going wrong is not what we mean by helping each other within the Kingdom. Imagine what the consequences would have been for the people of Saint Martin of a sudden uncontrolled bankruptcy. Not only would the already fragile economy of the island and the country have suffered immense pain due to the logistical pivotal role of Princess Juliana International Airport, but basic human needs would also be at risk. I'll make it even more concrete. It was then a question of: can we still guarantee the delivery of medicines? In the event of bankruptcy, is it still possible to fly people off the island for necessary medical interventions abroad? You may think "ah," but those are really matters that were at the time. Eventually we got out with Saint Martin, at least with the government of Saint Martin. I believe that the States of Saint Martin are also discussing the budget with all the accompanying financial arrangements for the airport. At that time, bankruptcy and any intervention was a matter of days. We couldn't take a moment to think about it, because it was really a matter of days, not weeks. And try to imagine that we hadn't come out and had been chosen to intervene. Imagine that there would then be a dispute settlement without safety valves. What would have happened? With these examples, which are partly fictitious in the end, but not in the cause and realization, I try to indicate that we are at enormous risk. The examples suggest that this is common, but these are exceptional, abnormal situations, where there are also other interests, which should provide the opportunity to intervene, independently of procedural errors that have been made, and ultimately to account for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u212	Mrs. Diertens, I want the Secretary of State to finish this block first. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u213	Then I come to the Thijsen and Others amendment. in piece No. 15. The purpose of this amendment is to dedicate dispute resolution to the Administrative Court of the Council of State. It would then give a binding judgment on which the National Council of Ministers could no longer depart. That amendment no longer provides for the possibility of rejecting a dispute resolution request if a major interest of the Kingdom requires immediate decision-making. I have just mentioned a few examples. From the written documents and from what has been exchanged today, it is clear that I attach great importance to both the possibility of refraining from asking for an opinion on a dispute in very special cases and the possibility of derogating from it in the context of final decision-making. I sincerely appreciate the attempt made by Mr Thijsen and his colleagues to keep the procedure as short as possible with a short notice of appeal and a short term of the Administrative Court Division's ruling. And yet circumstances may arise that there is really no waiting. Think, for example, of the situation where international obligations require a decision to be taken within a given short period of time on the conclusion of a treaty or the conclusion of another obligation. I realize that the amendment regulates that appeals do not have suspensive effect, but it will not help in cases where, pending the ruling of the Administrative Court Division, the National Council of Ministers will not wish to take irreversible decisions. There's one more thing. In fact, this amendment concerns an entirely new proposal. The amendment is very far-reaching and the Council of State has not been able to take a decision on it. Let me put it this way: I expect or almost certainly that there should be further consultation with the Council of State on this amendment or that advice should be sought. In view of the line I have set out, it will not surprise you that I am not recommending this amendment because there is no safety valve in it anymore. When it came to safety valves, Mrs Diertens spoke about Articles 50 and 51 of the Statute, which would be provided for in order to intervene for serious reasons. If you did not include the safety valves in the dispute settlement system, but would fall back on Articles 50 and 51 of the Statute, you would use the very last resort of the Statute more quickly. It is true that Articles 50 and 51 of the Statute contain procedures enabling the Kingdom Government to intervene in the most extreme case. In both cases, we are talking about an ultimatum remedium. I therefore do not share Mrs Diertens' view that Articles 50 and 51 provide an opportunity for the RMR to intervene. Since the dispute settlement does not provide for this, you would then fall back on a higher level, Articles 50 and 51, to have a title to intervene. In both cases, very strict criteria must be met, which are also reviewed by the Advisory Section. These criteria are more stringent than the criteria for issuing a designation under the RMR Regulation or other provisions. To illustrate the exceptional nature of Articles 50 and 51, Article 50 has never been applied and Article 51 has been applied once. That was in 2017 around the elections in Curaçao. Mr Bosman has asked about the situation in which the European Court of Human Rights instructs the Kingdom to intervene proactively in a human rights situation in one of the countries and the Kingdom does so with a designation. If the country enters into a dispute and wins this dispute, because there is still redres in the country itself, then how is the knot being cut? Preliminary draft: Here too, the question arises as to whether this situation would occur. Anyway, let me take a look at this issue. When the European Court of Justice condemns the Kingdom to intervene in a human rights situation, this judgment does not normally imply intervention within the Kingdom in order to remedy the situation, just that the situation needs to be resolved. Let us assume for a moment that an opinion of the international court obliges the Kingdom Government to take action and that the Section then considers that this power to intervene is not there under the Statute in this case. Then how is the knot cut? In such a case, the powers of derogation of the RMR from Article 8 may exist with the Thijsen c.s. amendment. Get out, get in the picture. This can be done, for example, because the nature and extent of the objections raised by the Section do not outweigh the importance of the Kingdom in fulfilling an international obligation. With the amendment this possibility would no longer exist. The Kingdom Government could then end up being forced to violate an international obligation. Depending on the objections raised by the Council of State, a new decision-making process could still be sought, with a similar objective. However, this new decision can also be subject to a new dispute procedure. That could waste a lot of time. The conclusion in the fictional case presented by Mr Bosman is that it is not wise to establish a dispute settlement in which the RMR does not have a safety valve in particular situations. In this context, Mr Bishop's amendment to item No. 16. In this report, Mr Bisschop is looking in the reasoning line for connection with the Rijkswet financiële overzicht. Mr Bishop's amendment presupposes that it is possible to refer the legal and political aspects of a dispute to the Section for Advice. This is not the case in the present form of the proposal, because the proposal is limited to the legal dimension of disputes, precisely what the Van Laar motion called for. The amendment therefore actually proposes a binding assessment of the dispute by the section. I have already indicated that I am not in favour of this. So I must therefore discourage that amendment. Following Mr Hirsch Ballin's speech, Mr Drost asked whether the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom was actually an opinion at a time when the RMR did not have to take over. The proposal includes all kinds of additional procedural steps to deal with the dispute, which differ from the normal practice of consulting. Think of the possibility of explaining cases orally. Although the judgment is not formally binding, there is therefore an instrument other than an opinion. It is designed as a procedure between parties. The final judgment of the RMR has nothing to do with that. Mrs Kuik wondered what my objections to the amendment were. I have already mentioned some of them. She also asked me to clarify why there were objections to the proposal. I have mentioned a number of situations in which these serious cases can be applied. One of them amounts to a balance of interests. The gravity of an established lack, for example the lack of justification, may be so small that another interest, that of the Kingdom, will have to prevail, for example, the sound administration; that is actually the guarantee function. Therefore, this does not tolerate formal binding dispute resolution. The political primacy of the RMR applies and includes the making of its own constitutional balance. The proposal of the National Council of Ministers is still valid: the opinion of the Advisory Section should be followed, unless. That unless there is a need for justification and an evaluation will show whether this has been done adequately. Mr Drost asked if I could outline what would happen if there was no escape for the RMR and what would go wrong. I have mentioned a number of examples of this, so I think I can skip that question. Mr Drost also asked if I could explain when a major interest prevails over unambiguous considerations and who decides whether it is not unambiguous. I therefore assume that the RMR will normally follow the department's judgements. That is the starting point behind Article 8 of the proposal. There may be situations where the RMR is forced to depart from the opinion of the section. The Thijsen amendment therefore makes this possibility impossible. If that is the case, that is different, depends on the specific context of a situation. I have given a few examples of this, but I cannot speculate on it further. I can think of a whole arsenal of fictional examples, but I have now mentioned a number which shows that it is not entirely fictitious. Whether an opinion of the section is unambiguous will therefore depend on the specific context of that ruling. So we can't anticipate that either. I would almost say: the more unambiguous an opinion is, the more difficult it is to deviate from it. Ms Kuik asked for a response to current administrative law practice that should provide sufficient space to take into account social contexts, for example for an administrative judge. A judge of administration will certainly not be able to take part in a political-administrative balance. This can only be considered very marginal in the review. It's not that it doesn't matter, but it's a marginal review. This is, of course, fundamentally different in the case of an advisory body, as has also been pointed out by the Advisory Section. This would help to ensure that the dispute could actually be resolved. If you only have a marginal review, that does not mean that you have the beginning of a solution, whereas an opinion from the Section of the Regions can really contribute to that solution by taking a substantive view. Mr Drost asked: what makes the government not trust the investigating body, the department, to weigh heavily in its judgment? Well, I can say it's not a matter of trust. I have just indicated that there is more to it than just what the Advisory Section will agree with. It will not be possible to apply this derogation lightly. There are simply circumstances in which grounds cannot be taken into account or cannot be sufficiently taken into account in the procedure or where there is only a legal review, but they leave room for a different position. And for those cases, that safety valve does apply. And we are now focusing very much on that and talking about it, but the reality will be that for the minority I hope the vast minority of the cases is so. Mr Bishop wondered whether I could indicate what facts and circumstances might be involved, which would then be taken into account under Article 8: is that a licence? Well, I hope I've made it clear by now that it's not a free pass. But if I bring up the example of that financial crisis again, then you may have followed the procedure correctly, but then there is a chaos of some magnitude that is no longer manageable, no longer payable and no longer fixable. Then the question is: what is the purpose and what is the means? So you should always think about that, but we are not in favour of completely excluding you from using that safety valve. Mrs Pauletta asked: "Why leave the final judgment to the RMR? Does this rhyme with the proper function of the rule of law?" Well, I have already said something about that, but my answer is: yes, that aspect of the proposal is certainly compatible with the rule of law. First of all, of course, the starting point is that the RMR follows the judgements of the department. In addition... A little while ago, I'd almost say. That is not good Dutch, Mr President! I'm having a bit of trouble with my Limburg origin now, I see. "Daarneven" is dialect for "near it." In addition, there is no legal rule requiring legal protection in inter-administrative disputes to be brought to an independent court in the final instance. So the freedom to set that up differently is also the reason why it is so regulated in the legislative proposal before us. Mrs Diertens asked if I could indicate how often opinions have been requested from the Council of State in the event of disputes and whether the RMR has taken on board the judgment in these situations. Information was requested in 2015 following a lead given to the governors of Saint Martin and Aruba. The question was whether the Kingdom Government could give an indication of whether a country's decision should be ratified. This judgment weighed heavily for the RMR. A similar indication has in any case not occurred since then. So this is actually an example in which you can see that in this case this advice does work in a different form as a cleansing agent for the way in which the decision-making takes place. Mr Sneek asked me to explain how this proposal is compatible with respect for the representatives of the people and the equality of all in the Kingdom. Mr Sneek had a critical input, I must say. To me, respect for elected representatives is a great asset. I am not saying that because you are sitting here right now and I am going to have a debate with you, but I have been part of the parliament long enough not to sin against it, because it really is. That does not mean that we will always agree on certain things. And those relationships in a formal sense in the Kingdom, regardless of respect, are governed by the principle of equivalence. That principle has been codified in the preamble to the Staff Regulations. The principle is also an important guideline for the interpretation of the other provisions of the Staff Regulations, including Article 12a. It shows that the division of powers between the Kingdom and the countries must not lead to a de facto subjugation of one country to another. That's important to note. That is not the case with this proposal either. The aim of the proposal is to reduce the inequality experienced in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin at the administrative level of the Kingdom that is now present, in the current situation where there is no dispute settlement. These safety valves, which are not supported by some of the speakers, are, in the government's view, essential components to make the regulation functional. I just explained that. We're going to evaluate that. Then I'll get to block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u214	Mrs. Diertens wanted to ask you something, but I see that that is no longer necessary. Then I'm going to see Mr Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u215	As far as I am concerned, it has now become extremely interesting and illustrative. The Secretary of State has put examples in our midst. Now we all have an idea what we're talking about here at all. These examples are, of course, a direction of thought, a game of thought, a 'what if' situation; I understand that. Imagine one of the countries saying, "We don't agree." The question is whether the Kingdom Government is authorized to intervene in this matter or to take the decision it has taken. I read in the reply to the report that it must be a situation in which a major interest of the Kingdom prevails over an opinion of the section which does not point clearly in the direction of law. So if the department doesn't say clearly that you can't do something according to the Staff Regulations, then you're not going to follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u216	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u217	Do you? The question is: isn't it true that in such cases it doesn't really matter whether the ruling is binding or non-binding? If he were to be binding, the same section would also consider the same serious interests. Is it not a bit cold-hearted of the Dutch Government not to recognise that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u218	No, it is not, because advice is mainly about the legal aspects. I have just indicated that, on the basis of a legal approach, the Advisory Section could come up with an opinion which, if weighed against the real consequences of such a decision, could be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u219	As I said, it will be difficult and legal; I understand that. We are asking for an unambiguous legal ruling based on the Statute. If an independent institute makes binding statements, it concludes that it cannot make an unambiguous legal statement, as it says here, then it will not make that statement either. Then it will give the matter back to the Dutch Government and say: you must take a political decision on this; we cannot make a legal ruling on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u220	No, because the dispute resolution is on the legal side. That was also the call in the Van Laar motion. There may therefore be an opinion that is unambiguous on legal grounds, but still, contrary to a political, real scenario, could lead to a different political and administrative balance. That's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u221	Finally, very briefly, Mr. Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u222	Yes, very briefly. That is not what the report says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u223	The Secretary of State states that there must be built-in safety valves. In Article 12, on the ongoing consultation, there are safety valves. In Article 12a, as the current proposal indicates, there are also safety valves. In Articles 50 and 51 there are also safety valves. In all three articles, the RMR has the upper hand in this. Can you indicate whether, within the way you think, there is a situation in which an independent, binding opinion can be given to the other countries? Perhaps it is not Article 12 or Article 12a; perhaps it is a new article, in addition to Articles 50 and 51. When, in what situation, apart from these three articles, is there the possibility for the other countries to obtain an independent binding opinion, in addition to that of the RMR?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u224	I believe that you have asked a question about this, which goes even further in my text. I'll take it with me then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u225	Then you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u226	Yes. It's about the role of the Plenipotentiary Ministers, isn't it? The question was whether they also have an opportunity to ask for advice? Is that correct or not? Or does Mrs Pauletta ask what other safety valves are left besides the ones she mentions? I think there are. I have just said that it is not reasonable to use Articles 50 and 51 first if there are other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u227	Yes, and that is why I said that Article 12 is an opportunity for that. Article 12a, as you have put it, is also an example of the RMR which ultimately takes the decision. So these are extra safety valves. Articles 50 and 51 are the ultimate safety valves. Is there a situation in which you say that there can be an article in the Statute in which all countries have the opportunity to ask for a binding opinion independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u228	Well, maybe you can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u229	I suggest I get back to that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u230	Fine. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u231	I find the examples of the Secretary of State extremely enlightening. They make the situation much more complicated, I'm afraid. The question now is whether the Kingdom Government should have done anything about the Statute. In the examples of the Secretary of State, he outlines the political environment. I think that's quite right. But isn't it true that every legal advice always has a political environment? Doesn't that mean that legal advice is not possible at all, that there is always a political balance to be made and that the whole proposal for a dispute settlement is, after all, becoming a theoretical issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u232	I would have expected this question, also in view of Mr Van Raak's first-term contribution. The Van Laar motion, which has been referred to a number of times, has made it quite clear that it should look at the legal dispute resolution. The original proposal of my predecessor provided for a different possibility. On the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, we go back to legal dispute resolution. A number of speakers have already said that it is not always difficult to distinguish where these differences lie. I trust the Advisory Section of the Council of State to be able to take account, even when determining whether a dispute is legal or not, of what it is being examined and to make that assessment. It is precisely because it is only a legal advice that it is important to always look at the actual situation and, if necessary, to act accordingly. That's not the rule, because the rule should be that you follow such advice, or actually that it's binding, unless. That's supposed to be the main rule. My point with regard to the Thijsen amendment is that there is no 'unless' and that there is only an unconditional commitment. This, while I have argued with the examples, are not examples from distant history, but examples I have all experienced myself, namely that situations may arise in which, in the context of the guarantee function and in the context of the interests of the Kingdom, which may be greater than just a legal dispute with a certain consequence as a result of that advice, you could nevertheless take a different decision. I myself think that those are real situations that can be counted on one hand. But since they may have potentially enormous consequences, I'd almost say that they can be disruptive to society and to the situation, you can't rule them out. And since you can't rule them out, you can't leave that "unless."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u233	I get that. Of course, I am also thinking about how it is that we are not out after nine years and that we are not getting out, that we are not getting out tonight either. Could it be that everyone is of bad will? Or could it be that we want something we can't? I'm afraid we're going a bit that way. Then the Secretary of State will certainly say: hey, I recognize that from Mr Van Raak. Is one of the reasons why we do not come out with the dispute settlement that the responsibilities in the Statute are not clear? If the responsibilities in the Statute are not clear, then I do not think it would be possible to give an answer in a dispute about these relations. If you ask people, ask a judge, ask an advisory body to judge something, then first there must be clarity about what you judge. If responsibilities are not clear, you cannot judge a dispute over those responsibilities either. To what extent can the Secretary of State go along with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u234	This is a point that Mr Van Raak, I think rightly, has made regularly and not only in this debate: the perfection or imperfection of the Statute. The statute is here. He himself has outlined what it takes to adapt it. Within that Statute there is a mandate to come up with a settlement of disputes. It's complicated. Then Mr Van Raak asks whether that is a matter of unwillingness. I don't think it's a matter of unwillingness. I do believe that we are at risk of remaining trapped in our own reality and not being able to take the step towards something that is better for everyone. I am truly convinced that the proposal for a law that is now before us is absolutely an improvement in the current situation. Is it perfect? No, it's not perfect, but it's absolutely an improvement and through that evaluation I also have faith in the word "I think that's important, especially in a situation where you're talking about disputes....................................................................................................................................................................................... Now we run the risk of remaining in the vein of our own reality. I do not detract from the reality of the amendment and its justification, but we have made a different assessment. I respect that amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u235	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u236	... but I am also trying here, and that is where the debate on this matter is to give your Chamber what our reasons for coming forward with this proposal have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u237	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr. Arends.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u238	Secretary of State, have you made an inventory in your considerations of what possible disputes might be? 'Cause I think that's actually... You'll hear a lot of things. You hear from very small disputes to very large disputes, which in a short time can have a lot of influence or even be disastrous for our small islands. But in your consideration, when writing the further report and the note following the report, in the universe of things, what are the disputes that you have in 2019?...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u239	...the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u240	... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, who sees the Secretary of State in front of him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u241	Some I have outlined and of course I can let my fantasy run wild.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u242	I wouldn't do that at 11:00 in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u243	Can you read your mind, Mr. Chairman? No, so the chairman won't let me. That's kind of the inconvenience we all have. I do realize that, because you are talking about a dispute settlement and there may be different images of how it is applied in practice. That is a bit unsatisfactory, but that is always the case with the legislator. We have here in the Lower House once adopted the Work and Security Act. This happened with all good intentions, but the law had a counter-effect and had to be restored. In my opinion, we should also have the courage to say that, in the end, and then I echo the call from some of the speakers, can we make a move here to achieve something? Can we have confidence in each other, which also leads to a slightly different tone in the debate, that we are working on whether it works or not? Then we don't have to put down some kind of hypothesis, but we can test how that is going to develop in practice. Then I'll just say there's an evaluation clause in it. Maybe it's a little far away for some people. Mr Bishop, I shall come to that in a moment, also has an amendment to that point. I think that at that point perhaps the inconvenience could be reduced a little bit. But getting on with it, I think, removes this proposal from a number of mythical consequences in one sense or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u244	Then I suggest you move on to the next part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u245	The following section is the power of the President of the National Council of Ministers to determine that the dispute cannot be settled. That must then be because of a major interest in achieving immediate and immediate decision-making. Mrs Pauletta and Mr Bishop, among others, have asked questions about this. It has been indicated earlier: this is a very heavy responsibility, because this is the safety valve of the proposal. Unlike the other safety valve, when using this procedure there will be no time for an independent third party to look at the dispute. This is therefore about the immediate decision-making process. The proposal responds to this in part to the fact that the procedure has been deliberately kept short: eight to ten weeks. Recourse to this competence will therefore not be possible soon. So there must be something that could play within that time limit. However, there are examples that I have just mentioned. Yet here too, from a political-administrative perspective and from my own experiences within kingdom relations, real situations are conceivable in which such power is necessary, because urgency requires it. I have already mentioned that example of the airport in Saint Martin. At that time, we did not have eight to ten weeks to discuss it legally. Luckily, we got out of there, but that didn't mean much. Mr Bisschop asked himself, within the framework of the power of the President of the National Council of Ministers, why there was no possibility of countering the decision of the MP to block a request for dispute settlement. I myself believe that the answer to this question would only really lead to far-reaching judicialisation if such a decision could also give rise to a dispute, because then you fall from one procedure to another. This is by its very nature an exceptional case. I think it would be wise not to set this standard, but to include a point by Mr Bishop Bishop in the evaluation and perhaps to consider in advance how we could shape that evaluation, so that you could take this element with you. Then I'll come to block four.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u246	My question to the Secretary of State is: what is the concrete advantage of the proposal as it stands with regard to the Statute?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u247	The proposal on the Reichswet dispute settlement provides for a fill-in of the gap in Article 12a. This is a procedure involving an independent third party who is not currently involved. This independent third party would be the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom with Caribbean input. There isn't at this stage. It is precisely from the Caribbean perspective that this is a substantial step forward in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u248	Isn't this a leak boat we're going with? Because we're going with something in the sea and we're going to have to change it and adapt it as we go along. Why don't we do it right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u249	I understand that question. The leaky boat in the context of the metaphor of marriage is, by the way, a dangerous one. Anyway, when you get married, you don't start with a leak boat, you start with a boat. If it turns out there's leaks in there, you're gonna close it. That is how I see this proposal. I have explained in detail the objections of the National Council of Ministers in a majority against the unbiased follow-up of opinions, the so-called binding opinion. That means that, in the examples I have just mentioned, you have no opportunity to deviate, whereas that is in the interests of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u250	Please continue. You had arrived at the scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u251	Yeah, I was at the scope. Comments have been made on this, among others by Mr Van Raak. I have just said something about this, but for the sake of completeness, I think it would be good to answer that question very explicitly. It was about the legal scope, at least the limitation of the legal view of the scheme. This proposal provides for the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom to assess whether the proposed action of the National Council of Ministers infringes a higher standard of law. That is also in line with the Van Laar motion. What facts or circumstances should be taken into account is entirely up to the Council of State to determine. In general terms, the extent to which the more political and administrative aspects can be taken into account will depend on the legal standards to which the proposed action is assessed. It is somewhat abstract, but let me make it a little more concrete. In the case of a legal standard with, for example, a fatal deadline, the review will generally be limited to whether the deadline has been met or not. When it comes to a rule of law that allows for discretion, for example a provision of the law, it can also take into account aspects such as care, proportionality and proper justification. Of course, there is more room in the latter to give a place to the political and administrative process, by means of a binding legal judgment. The Minister responsible for Saint Martin asked whether I would like to include the issue of scope, in particular the AMvRB which is now excluded, in the evaluation. I think I got it so well. That is not possible now, but I agree with the suggestion that we should take that with us. But that would be something to take on board in the context of the evaluation exercise, perhaps that could be part of this debate. But with that, I'm almost making a bridge to the evaluation in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u252	I'm still trying to understand how we might get somewhere we need to be along the way. I agree with Mrs Moses, who says you're starting something, and maybe that boat is leaking. But isn't it true that when you start something, you first come up with an orderly architecture and create a blueprint, and that you might change things over time? Mr President, I understand your criticism, but you're not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u253	No, I'm not saying anything about building drawings and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u254	I think it's a good thing that we first have a good model and good rules, which are going to change things instead of saying: we'll just start with something and see where we come up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u255	I am convinced that the proposal to remain in the boat's imagery is not a flat boat but a solid boat, which could perhaps lose an extra scoop or an additional safety device if it turns out that the boat is even better than we already think it is. I have no idea that there is a proposal here that is leaking. In fact, I think there is a balanced proposal here. By the way, that's not new. There is a great deal of legislation here with an ex-ante idea that certain measures will lead to a certain effect. Sometimes in practice this does not happen, it happens in part or even the opposite happens. I just mentioned the Work and Security Act. So you're gonna have to adjust. Then you have to row port and starboard at the same time, otherwise you don't go forward but turn your laps. So I think it's really a matter of: are you confident that you're all on board that boat in the right direction and you can adjust if something goes wrong? Or don't you have that confidence? I do have that confidence. If we were to take the Thijsen amendment as a starting point, we would have a real problem in the case I put to you. Because then we don't have a single title to deviate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u256	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u257	A number of questions have been asked about the choice of the Advisory Section of the Council of State as an independent third party. The dispute settlement is intended to be a safety net arrangement. Where an independent third party has not yet been provided for to assess the proposed action on its legal merits, this arrangement fills that gap. It is important to note that in cases where this independent third party has already been provided for, in practice it is always the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom. Also in those cases where the law, for example the National Financial Supervision Act, states "Council of State of the Kingdom," this is in practice the Advisory Section. It therefore seems logical to me to opt for this in this case too, even if only because there is less chance of discrepancies between the way the various assessments are carried out. Furthermore, it is precisely in the advisory section of this High College of State that there is a standard provision for the participation of the State Councils of the Kingdom, i.e. the Caribbean State Councils. That seems to me to be an unconditional element in this arrangement. I see that he is now in another place, Mr Drost, and I was wondering if I could indicate which bodies have been further considered for the role of independent third party. Why not opt for a body that is further away from the legislative process, for example a separate chamber at the Council of State, in order to guarantee independence? On the basis of the wish to provide for a form of dispute settlement to be included in the ongoing consultations, and thus in a view that the RMR is involved in the final decision-making process, the Advisory Section is most likely. I do not see directly the added value of setting up a separate section at the Council of State, because to what extent would it be composed differently from the Advisory Section? In what way would the current procedural regime not be met, my counter-question would be. Mr Drost also asked if there were any examples of situations which the countries would like to deal with under the dispute settlement. I have nothing to want here. The arrangement will only allow the Plenipotentiary Ministers to request an opinion from the Council of State. I do have examples where it could be. Since 2010, four directions have been given by the Kingdom Government to governors. There has been a great deal of work to be done on all these indications. If the dispute settlement had been in place, they could have been the subject of a dispute procedure, if requested. In addition, Article 44 of the Staff Regulations requires countries to seek the agreement of the RMR in the event of substantial changes to the State regime. Some years ago there was the plan at St.Maarten to deal with the practice of ship jumping.We stay a bit in the metaphor of the boats; but this is about switching from one party to another. Although the RMR had sympathy for this aim at the time, it was negative about the way Saint-Maarten wanted to deal with the practice. This decision of the RMR could have been the use of a dispute procedure. Mr Bishop asked whether it would not be logical to create an opportunity to withdraw a request or to include a suspension clause in the proposal. The question was: what if a country comes to the understanding that there is no dispute anymore? The proposal sets out a number of deadlines within which the procedure must take place to the maximum. Those are always two-week periods. The parties that have to operate within these deadlines are, of course, free to act more quickly. If the consequences of a dispute have been worked out in a particular case, it is for the Section to assess the consequences of such a dispute. I therefore see no need to explicitly include a suspension clause in the proposal, but frankly I would not object to it, as I say to Mr Bishop. But it's not necessary in itself. Mr Bishop also asked why other countries could not request information from the Council of State. The simple answer is that the Law on the Council of State, which is a Dutch law, sets out exhaustively who can ask for information. In this case, these are the ministers who are not the ministers responsible and the two chambers of the States-General. Then there is the amendment to item No. 14, by Mrs Özütok and Mrs Diertens, on mediation. Maybe I can give some reflections on that. First of all, the procedure for continuing consultations cannot be properly reconciled with the involvement of third parties in that continued consultation. The continued consultation itself can already be seen as a form of mediation, because if you know that the independent third party comes into the picture afterwards, the pressure will increase to see if you can get out. Secondly, a mediation pathway adds another element to the dispute procedure provided for in this proposal. This results in delays in the decision-making process, whereas the procedure is designed to slow down this process. Thirdly, it is difficult to see how those who fail to reach agreement on a particular legal issue in the course of the consultations would agree on all the details to be laid down in a mediation agreement. The essence of mediation and also of the amendment tabled is that the parties together determine what the mediation process will look like, what the duration is and who will be appointed as mediators. A source of dispute, you could almost say. So I do not think it would be wise, in this context, to regulate this in a formal sense. I therefore advise against this amendment. Mrs. Mc. William asked why the government's decisions for Bonaire, Statia and Saba are subject to legal protection by an independent judge, and it is not possible to achieve a comparable level of legal protection for Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Isn't that the world upside down, she asked. Bonaire, Statia and Saba have been part of the Dutch legal order since 2010, which is structured in a completely different way from the legal order of the Kingdom. In this legal system, which is organized on a decentralised basis, there has been a tradition of legal protection in the administrative courts over the years. Questions may be referred to the Administrative Court which cannot be compared with the type of questions which may be submitted to the Division under the proposed dispute settlement procedure. In addition, the administrative dynamics within the Netherlands, including the BES islands, are different from the administrative dynamics within the Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the sixth block, about the evaluation. There are many speakers who have asked questions or made comments about this: Bosman, Bishop and Mrs Wuite. Unlike my predecessor's proposal on this dossier, the present proposal contains an evaluation clause. As far as I am concerned, that is not an empty shell; that assessment makes sure that everything that happens under this state law will become part of a later review. That means that everything that happens and everything that is applied with the glasses will take place from an ex post assessment. I see myself in front of me, but that is, as far as I am concerned, a further subject of debate, namely that such an evaluation should have a quantitative but also a qualitative dimension. Quantitatively, I mean in the sense that it would be good to keep track of how often the scheme is applied and how often, for example, certain safety valves have come into the picture. Qualitatively, I mean in the sense that the use of the scheme is also given a certain explanation, in other words: does the scheme meet the stated objectives? The question also arises: does it have any added value to extend the objectives of the schemes? As far as the process is concerned, I can only imagine that the involvement of the Caribbean countries is guaranteed with the drawing up of the test criteria, the methodology of evaluation, the composition of the evaluation committee, the horizon, etc. et cetera et cetera. Then I come to Mr Bishop's amendment, which I still do not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u258	He had to leave in time to catch the train.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u259	I'm gonna suggest that I pretend he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u260	He also reads the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u261	I appreciate the amendment. His amendment, in part No. 17, aims to define which topics will in any case have to be included in the evaluation. I must say that I sympathise with this amendment. I think it is right and logical that the issues raised in this report should be included in the evaluation. At the same time, I believe that, even without an explicit regulation, these issues will be discussed in the context of the evaluation. So to that extent I would say that this amendment is not necessary, but I can leave it to the Chamber to decide. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I have to say that this is a very special debate, for me too, for the first time in a Reichswet process, accompanied by three authorized ministers who may have a slightly different view of what I am saying here. However, they did not run away earlier, they did not leave the meeting and we also work very well together. That's good to report, too, I think. Nine years are being discussed on this subject, and one thing is certain: no one will get out of this Chamber tonight with the idea that he or she has taken everything, is fully satisfied or has a feeling of applause, as Mr Van Raak said. Politics is also the art of the feasible and the sustainable. I sincerely hope that at the end of this debate, at least for the first time, we can see that there is more to this difficult subject within the Kingdom that binds us than it separates us. I thank Members for their input and came at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u263	Many thanks to the Secretary of State for his clear statement. It does put us in a difficult position as MPs. The amendments have been reasonably assessed, but they have been put to an end. That's why we wanted to see if there was room for the Chamber and the delegates to take a little more time to make an ultimate attempt at...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u264	But you're not going to ask the Secretary of State. That's up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u265	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u266	That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u267	I would like to make that effort, along with my colleagues. But we also have a guest in this house, so I think it is nice to explain through you, Mr President, to the guest that we might want a little more time for that and that we will reach a final verdict by Thursday at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u268	So you are actually making an order proposal not to keep the second term tonight and not to finish the debate tonight, but to keep the second term next Thursday, before the recess. First, I'll see if there's a majority for that. That's the way it goes with proposals like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u269	Mr. Chairman. I would like to wholeheartedly support this proposal. A lot of information has come to us. It's about a very important subject. I'd like to take that to rest and space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u270	A wise suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u271	I have said it several times this evening: do everything I can to try to get out of it. So we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u272	Support, Chairman. I hope we get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u273	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u274	I also said that I wanted to do everything I could to do it, but I have to tell you quite frankly that I'm going to see what it's gonna be. But I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u275	Okay. Then there is a majority in favour of Mr Bosman's amendment of order, not to conclude the debate tonight, but to hold the second term next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-40.u276	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Ministers responsible, the Members of Parliament and, of course, the Members of Parliament, the officials, the staff and everyone who has followed this debate in one way or another.
