ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal, the first deadline for which took place yesterday from the Chamber: Bill 35007, Amendment of the Study Finance Act 2000 in connection with a change in the interest rate rate for the higher education loan. I welcome the Minister of Education, Culture and Science once again to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What an honor to have the last debate in this Chamber. I would like to thank Members for their first contribution. There are still a lot of questions that I will try to answer tonight to the best of my ability. We are discussing today the change in the interest rate rate rate on student loans in higher education agreed in the government agreement. Where the five-year rate is now used for students, it will be the ten-year rate in the future. Nothing more and nothing less is provided for in this bill. Although I cannot predict future spaces as much as you can, we know that ten-year interest rates are almost always slightly higher than the five-year interest rate. This measure will thus generate money in the future. This contributes positively to the sustainability of public finances. That is why the bill was tabled by the cabinet, no more and no less than that. I can't do it any better than that. Probably nobody here will be against sound public finances, but a question that I have heard a number of times in the first period is why that money should now come from students. The good news is that this money should not come from students. The high interest rate is not going to be paid by students, but by often well-earned, highly educated people. They have in the past contracted a loan for a study in higher education and then made enough money to repay that loan. I think that is an acceptable way of contributing to improving the sustainability balance in the future. That was also the view of the Council of State, which did not have any comments. The CPB has also accepted this as a useful measure to improve the sustainability balance in a number of election programmes. I heard a lot of questions yesterday in the Chamber that actually extend far beyond this bill. I would like to limit myself to good practice in this Chamber, Madam President, to the legislative proposal we are discussing today: to adjust the measure on which the interest rate on student loans is based. There are two points of concern that live widely in this Chamber and which I would like to address prior to the answer. Firstly, I want to highlight clearly what makes the study advance indeed a social loan system, including the legislative proposal before us. The additional scholarship was increased by more than €100 at the time. The repayment period has been extended from 15 to 35 years. Refund starts with income from minimum wage. That used to be 84% of the minimum wage. A former student never needs to use more than 4% of his income above the minimum wage for redemption. That was 12%. All this leads to half the monthly expenses at the same level of debt. In order to meet these low monthly charges, the weighting factor taken into account in mortgage lending has been reduced from 0.75% to 0.45%, so that study debts weigh less heavily on mortgage lending. The government gives its own credit rating to the student by assuming the interest paid by the government itself on the capital market, without any risk premium. And the current proposal still allows us to talk about social interest rates. Finally, any residual debt is cancelled after 35 years and may be paid in advance at any time, unlimited and free of penalty. This radical change in the system was decided in 2014. In response to Mr Ganzevoort, who asked for my views on this system, I can assure him that for my part there is no intention to make any further changes to the social loan system and that I do not see any reason to do so at the moment. I monitor the effects of the loan system every year and, of course, I also look at accessibility, which is very important to me. I'll come back to that later. In addition, I am preparing for the implementation of the Klever motion, which calls on the government to investigate the flow of funds four years after the introduction of the social loan system. The evaluation is planned for 2020. Even before the budget debate, I will give you the plan of action for this. In addition, I just keep the agreements that have been made around the loan system. The promise that interest rates will never change in the future was never made when the social loan system was introduced. Secondly, I would also like to mention the agreements reached at the time on the use of the proceeds of the study advance and how this bill relates to this. Mr Bruijn, Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Duthler asked for this. Last summer, the Association of Colleges, the VSNU, the ISO and the LSVb informed me that all participation councils for 2018 have agreed to the use of the study advance funds in the field of educational quality. And last year I concluded an agreement with these parties for 2019 and beyond. The two main principles are that all educational resources will always benefit from educational quality and that students will be involved in planning and during implementation. So it is all the proceeds from the study advance legislative proposal. And students have the right to consent to the use of the student advance funds. Institutions are now making a lot of plans and the NVAO has started to review the plans. If these plans do not contribute to the improvement of quality or if participation is not sufficiently involved, the institution will be returned to the drawing board. She'll get a second chance. An institution will be responsible for the progress of the content and process on an annual basis. Participation will also be given the opportunity to report independently on the use of the study advance funds in an annex to the annual report. In 2022, the NVAO will assess whether the institution has sufficiently implemented the plans and whether the participation has remained sufficiently involved during the implementation. At the end of 2020 and at the end of 2022, the NVAO also provides a national picture of the state of these quality agreements. I would like to say that I will also inform your Chamber of those results. That agreement is, therefore, accompanied by checks-and-balances, so that we can establish in future whether our expectations, our promises, are being met by the institutions. I now turn to your Chamber's questions. I'll answer those questions in four clusters. I will go into more detail about the purpose of the bill, the implications of the bill, the impact of the bill on the accessibility of higher education and the treaty implications of the IVESCR for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u4	Mr President, thank you. Let me get this straight. Is there a demand for the use of the extra revenue under one of these blocks or has it already been with this introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u5	I have had it because it does not fall within the scope of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u6	Then I'm gonna go into it right now. The Minister thus states that the additional income from the interest rate increase is not income from the study advance system. That seems to me to be a reasonable thing to say. What shall I say? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few brief comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u7	No, because it is always the case that the fluctuations in interest rates and their income are included in the OCW budget, but they are what we call a generic dossier: disappointments but also windfalls are generic files in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u8	So the students are going to pay back more - that's the effect of this proposal - but that doesn't lead to more investment in education. In fact, the Minister withdraws what she explicitly said, namely that there is no direct obligation to invest the extra income in education. She says that on the basis of the IVESCR. She will come back to the treaty as such later, but she will say: these are therefore revenues from the study advance system. The explicit agreement at the time was not: we sometimes look at the fluctuations et cetera, generic budget, whatever. The explicit agreement was that all income from the study advance system would be used entirely and directly for education and for improving quality. This means that this Minister, if she insists on this position, will indeed break the promises made when the study advance system was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u9	No, that's not right. At the time when the study advance was introduced, very clear amounts were mentioned when it came to what the system would bring: it has a peak first, and it will be 620 million in structural terms. It's been released year after year. That is why we have the quality agreements. Whether we rely on the five-year interest rate or ten-year interest rate, it does not matter for the system in which coincidence or setbacks in interest income are settled in the national budget. The fluctuations in the interest rates that could also have occurred at the five-year rate do not affect the amounts agreed on that we invest them in the quality of higher education, because otherwise those amounts could not have been so fixed and would have been surrounded by great uncertainty. And what we didn't want to do is surround those amounts with uncertainty. Those amounts are very clearly fixed. You can also see this in the budget of OCW, and for example in the quality agreements we have made with the institutions and with the students: these are the amounts that become available annually to invest in the quality of higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u10	Finally. I don't think this is convincing to the students. It certainly doesn't convince me. However, commitments have been made that it was about the extra revenue. It is true that commitments have been made that the income from the advance system would be used for education purposes. And if education were in order, and if the quality of it were no longer in question at all and if the proceeds of the advance system were such that we would say that the money was plotting against the plinths, then we would have a different story. But that's not the issue. There is still a huge funding problem. And this money from the students that is now being taken away is not being used to solve the problems. That's just a miss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u11	No, Mr Ganzevoort's reasoning does not stand, because if his reasoning were correct, it would also mean that the proceeds of the system would not have been fixed for the future. For the introduction of the study advance bill was based on an interest rate of about 2.5%. That interest rate is much lower now. If you were right, that would mean that those revenues would fall in the coming years and that we would not be able to invest them in the quality of higher education. So the interest income has always been outside those exact amounts. The amounts agreed upon at the time of the adoption of the legislative proposal stand like a house. That is a promise I stand for and which I have also made very clear agreements with the institutions and with the student organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u12	I think one should not be tied to the other. The debate we had with your predecessor was certainly about why we needed this loan system. This loan system was necessary because an additional investment in education had to be made by the next cabinet, which, according to the cabinet, could only be financed by the introduction of this system. The parties have agreed to this. Then you come four years after that, I say through the President, with a change to the arrangements that were made at the time, arguing that the money is needed to make the state treasury. I think there is the greatest pain of the Chamber there, because some parties have agreed on ways and means, because it was assumed that it would be for the benefit of education, which we all consider to be essential, but not for the benefit of the state treasury. It feels a little like we've been cheated. Let me just say it diplomatically. That's the feeling it makes. Because what's the next change this cabinet is going to come up with to get even more finances to the state treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u13	Madam President. I have just indicated that there are no plans to make further changes to the social loan system. Again, yes, the reasoning behind the introduction was to introduce the social loan system in order to be able to invest substantially, hundreds of millions, in the quality of higher education. Those appointments and those amounts are like a house. This was also unrelated to the exact level of interest and the interest rate measure. We have set up the system in such a way that, when it comes to reimbursement, it takes fairly detailed account, and in a more social way than before, of the refund capacity of former students. That is still the case, and that is why it is a social system, I have just told you. The agreement made at the time on the system for investment in the quality of education is like a house. Those amounts do not change at all. At that time too, any fluctuations in interest rates would not be included or deducted from those investments, as they do not rise or fall from the budget of OCW. Everyone knew that back then. Those amounts are just there. At the time, we really checked that very carefully..................................................................................................................................................................... Couldn't have done that, because interest rates always fluctuate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u14	The promise that this is the only thing that is going to be changed, I would call it a balloon, because those commitments were also made in the debate four years ago. Now we are here four years later and the agreements we made at that time are already being called into question. But what I think is de facto happened is that four years ago, we created a system in which this cabinet now sees the possibility of making the state treasury a reality. That strikes me, Minister. You say it's not about students, it's about people who are going to make a lot of money. I have said in my term that this is a premiss, on which I also sometimes want to enter into the debate. But these students are gonna have to bacon the state treasury right now. I think we should just tax the state treasury, Mr. President. The students are paying double for it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u15	It's not about bacon. It's about the shelf life balance. You also know that healthy public finances in the future contribute to the opportunities to continue investing in education. But if you say that the agreements made at the time when the loan system was introduced are now being changed, that is not true. The agreement was that we introduced the system and that in return we invested amounts in the quality of education. Those amounts are still like a house. We do so under very social conditions for students, who were even better than under the old system. That is also true, and we are not changing it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u16	Finally. In the previous reply, the Minister actually said it. She has looked carefully to see if she will break with the change in the interest rate rate with past agreements. Here it seems as if we have walked with our eyes open in the plans. Then I think: I am glad that my group voted against this loan system in the previous term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u17	There's still a whole line of people who want to interrupt. Mrs. Nooren first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u18	The spokesperson from the previous period checked what was shared. There has, of course, been an intensive debate on this bill. I read from the Acts: "At the same time, unlike the previous proposals, this bill makes it possible to invest heavily in the quality of higher education, because the money is not leaking out of higher education, but is being reinvested to improve quality. That is an essential part of this proposal and that makes it different." I think that those who voted in favour of this bill all thought: no matter what we ask students now, it will continue to do so in the future. Let me make the comparison with the health care, where we have income from premium payments. The Empire fits when the quality of health care needs to be at a certain level. It's never thought the other way around: we're picking up some premiums from health care, and we're putting them in the state treasury. The bill now seems to be somewhat reversed by the Minister, whereby the proceeds from the study advance system are not put into higher education but used for other purposes. That is the pain that Mrs Gerkens wanted to point out and which we recognize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u19	I would also like to say to Mrs Nooren that the phrase in the Acts you read is still correct. Because if the reasoning were correct, as you suggest, it would have meant that amounts that could be invested in higher education would have been dependent on fluctuations in interest rates. That is not the case. So that deal still stands. Because it's still the case now that interest rates can fluctuate. I am not saying that it is always so, but the ten-year interest rate is now significantly lower than the interest rate assumed at the time and the calculation models used when the study advance was introduced. If your reasoning were correct, I would not have been able to make a firm commitment: these are the amounts. Because then they would have been dependent on fluctuations in interest rates and interest rates. That has never been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u20	I'll try again. In my view, the proposal aimed to invest the proceeds of the study advance in education. This is independent of what a cabinet can invest in education in addition. We have appreciated the study advance as a social system because of that fact and not because of the fact that the government, by applying Article 6.3, sees the bill as a source of money for people with middle and high incomes who have previously studied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u21	I will come to that Article 6.3 later. I'm going to repeat myself: the proceeds that were invested at the time were the proceeds resulting from the abolition of the basic exchange, not the future returns from interest. Otherwise, those amounts would have fluctuated and they wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u22	I also wanted to get on with the sound public finances. My group loves sound public finances. The Minister has indicated that payment will be made in the future. She's made some reassuring announcements about that. I quote them literally, or the Minister will have to correct me. She indicated that those amounts will not be paid by students................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then the Minister indicated that you were only going to pay for it from the minimum wage. How am I supposed to match these two: highly educated, well-earned people and from the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u23	Yeah, that's right. I say, as a rule. You also know 'cause those tables I have also consulted your Chamber that what you pay back depends on your income. In the past, this started under the minimum wage and was 12% and now it is from minimum wage and 4%. So if you earn less as a dismissed person, you also pay much less, because you never pay more than 4% of your income above the minimum wage. So if you earn little above the minimum wage, you simply pay very little back. In some cases even zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u24	So this is not about highly educated, well-earning people, but about educated, earning people who have the minimum wage. We all know how much that is. They also have problems because they often have a flex job with that minimum wage and cannot buy a house, or are hardly capable of doing so. If they already have that house, they will also have the weighting factor, which has been adjusted slightly, but is still there and will simply pay 4% of that minimum wage, for 35 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u25	Yeah, but that doesn't change with this bill. That was the case when the previous bill was adopted, and that does not change this bill at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u26	I would still like to ask the Minister for clarification on the previous point. It is about the promise made at the time, when the loan system was introduced, that all the funds provided by the loan system will be invested in education. Now, when dealing with this bill, the Minister says that these funds, which are EUR 226 million, will not be invested in education, but will be put into the state treasury. It may seem very simple to me, but perhaps I think it is far too simple to say that this is a fundamental difference from the promise made at the time when the loan system was introduced. I'd like to get some clarity about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u27	I think I just offered that clarity and I'm just going to repeat myself. At the time, very clear agreements were made on the exact amounts that would be invested in the quality of higher education. Those amounts are still in place; they do not change anything. At the time, fluctuations in interest rates would not change those amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u28	Yeah, exactly. But these fluctuations are, of course, independent of the objective of the legislative proposal. The aim of the law for the loan system was to improve the quality of education. One of the objectives of the legislative proposal before us is to ensure public finances. That's a big difference, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u29	No, Mr President, it is not, because interest income at the time was not part of the amounts invested. I can keep repeating it. Otherwise, of course, these amounts would never have been fixed. Those amounts are fixed; they are clear. It is EUR 620 million structuralally. That was the amount when the system was introduced, and that amount is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u30	Finally, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u31	I think the Minister is really confusing purpose and means right now. The aim is to improve the quality of education. The purpose of this proposal has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u32	Mr President, I apologise for the ping-pong competition, but I am going back to where Mr Schalk left off. The impression may arise that the people who are just above minimum wage and graduated will have to pay more through this bill. But we still know the principle of carrying capacity, don't we? It is precisely this 4% ceiling of the income that people have to pay if I have understood correctly and interpreted the states correctly that is the reason why there is only a whole lot above the minimum wage for people that changes the amount they will pay. I would just like to avoid the misunderstanding that very low-earning people, who are just above the minimum wage, are in huge pain. But something is changing for the people who are much higher, precisely because of the principle of carrying capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u33	Yeah, that's right. Because of the principle of carrying capacity, nothing changes with this bill for a very large group. For example, for graduates with an income of €30,000, the only change is that, if they have a debt of €5,000, they go from €17 to €20, because they still have room below that ceiling. For example, with an income of €40,000, someone with a debt of €15,000 from €50 goes to €59. But with higher debts, nothing changes again, because then you will indeed remain in those social conditions. Especially for graduates with a slightly lower income, the difference is therefore zero. Only with really higher incomes are those differences really significant. There is often talk of the total amount by which the debt increases due to the increase in interest rates. It is true that there is an amount to be added to that debt............................................................................................................................................................................................. That really depends on your income. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the purpose of the bill. Some of the members asked for this. Mrs. Nooren asked why now? Mrs Teunissen asked: what is wrong with the shelf life? Mrs Duthler asked: to what extent does it contribute to the sustainability of public finances? Mrs Bikker also asked: will the measure continue when public finances are in order? Mr. Ganzevoort asked why the bill goes to students? Let me repeat once again: the aim of this measure is to improve the sustainability of public finances. We're talking about the long term. It's no more and no less than that. That is why this proposal has been incorporated into the coalition agreement. This measure can also be found in the transfer of a number of parties that form part of this coalition. It is about the long-term sustainability of public finances. That is what we see in the proceeds. That's only in 2025, and it's a million. This is because the ten-year interest rate is only going to apply to students who still have to start. For no student who is currently studying this bill therefore leads to a change. The proceeds then slowly rise to 226 million in the year 2060. It is, of course, possible to call this a'small contribution' in the light of the total national budget. I get that. But the rich budget is always a balance of many large and less large items. If each post were to be assessed purely on its individual contribution, then perhaps you could say at each of those posts: should it be here? But it's always about the total shelf life balance. This cabinet also considers it wise to adopt measures that improve long-term sustainability, especially when it is going to be economically sound. You have to fix the roof when the sun shines. Of course, it is not the case that public finances are now unsustainable, but there is room for improvement. In order to ensure that we can continue to invest for future generations, this cabinet considers a good sustainability balance to be important. Why, then, specifically this measure? I do not think it is entirely strange to balance the costs incurred by the government in granting loans and the costs incurred by the former student. Of course, it remains important that the former student should be able to wear it. Social payback conditions are important for this. We were just talking about it. It is always up to 4% of the income above the minimum wage. I think that is an acceptable way of contributing to improving the sustainability balance in the future. Once again, it seems that the Council of State was of the same opinion, because it did not make any comment. The CPB has also previously accepted it as a good measure. Of course, I also see the social resistance to this proposal. I understand very well that students think this is an annoying measure. I also understand very well that a lot of people are signing a petition against an increase in interest rates. I do not believe that anyone is in favour of measures to increase interest rates. But the cabinet has a broader responsibility in weighing different interests. We take that broader responsibility with this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Nooren and Mrs Gerkens also had questions about how interest is fixed. Mrs Nooren, for example, asked me to ensure that I can no longer set interest rates on an annual basis and whether it is wise for the law to give that space. Mrs Gerkens asked how easy it is to change the ten-year interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u34	I just need to get back to the goal the minister just described. In the Rules of Procedure, which I assume are on the Minister's bedside table because everything has to be measured, it says not only that we need more than a reference to the coalition agreement, but that we hear more tonight, so that is fine, but it also says that the various options need to be considered. What other proposals has the Minister seen that it has not become? She now says: we could have done other things. That's a start, but I'd still like to take it a step further. What other options has the Minister considered to do this? For example, has the government considered imposing an additional burden on beard carriers? You could have. The number of beard carriers in this Chamber is not so bad, but we could come a long way in the context of the 226 million. I mean, there are so many options that could have been done, so why this particular measure? What other options do I have to put it this way in the process of preparing this law has the Minister considered, but have it not become?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u35	The question is whether you should ask me that question. I understand that the coalition agreement as such is not an argument, but a weighting has been made in the cabinet formation that the overall package of measures also leads to a healthy sustainability balance in the future. That is where the choice was made for this measure. Is it balanced against other measures? I don't know, because I wasn't sitting there at the table. The fact is that this measure was also included in the transfer of the programmes of CDA and ChristenUnion, among others, in order to improve the sustainability balance. So it is not surprising that measures from the transfer of programmes from parties supporting the cabinet are also included in the proposal. Is there a different substantive consideration to this than "we're improving the sustainability balance"? Yeah, we're holding up the social reimbursement conditions for students. It is also reasonable for us to balance the costs incurred by the government for this loan with what a former student pays back. Yeah, that's it. I can't make it any better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u36	I assume that we will be discussing the interest subsidy later, because that is another subject. I am not at all interested in this evening, with all due respect to my fellow Members in the electoral programmes of a number of coalition parties. I don't find that interesting at all. I find this interesting. This minister speaks on behalf of the government. It's not about whether she knows or doesn't find something personally or whatever. It speaks for the government. This means that we ask the government, in its person: what considerations have you made? If we do not get an answer to that, whichever alternatives you have considered and which ones you have not, then this proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. May I make that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u37	There have been a number of considerations. I just gave it to you. This measure does not affect the promises made at the time in the social loan system. It brings into balance the costs incurred by the government in issuing these loans and the costs incurred by students. And yes, those yields contribute to the shelf life balance. That is the weighing that has been made. No more and no less. If you ask whether there were any other alternatives when considering this bill, the answer is: no, not at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u38	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u39	I note that three quarters of what the Minister says completely ignores my question. My question was very simple: did the Minister comply with the regulatory instructions by considering alternatives and, if so, what were they? The answer to that question is: no, those alternatives have not been considered. In doing so, the proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u40	What I would like to make is a consideration which I find far from undesirable is the following. If you say "what would be an alternative to contributing from the Education budget to the sustainability balance?', You'll come somewhere else. Then you're going to cut into costs that will be incurred in the future on the OCW budget. I have preferred this proposal. Mr. Chairman. I was with the questions on the determination of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u41	Mr Van Kesteren also wanted to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u42	Thank you for allowing me, Mr President. I have a question for the Minister. It talks about financial responsibility and the sustainability of public finances, but doesn't a government also have a social responsibility? That's what I want to focus on. The Minister also says that former students with a student debt will not pay more than 4% above the minimum wage. But I would also like to point out to the Minister that, in particular, lower incomes have incredibly high income support that does not have the modal and middle income of students with a student debt, and that the impact in practice is greater than you are describing. Is that right? Are you working on that, or are you thinking of doing something about that, too, to mean something in it? Because it is a very big social problem, which goes far beyond what you are describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u43	For all former students, regardless of their future income, the system is designed so that their income is taken into account when asking what they should repay monthly. In doing so, the system takes into account the payment capacity of former students. This bill doesn't change that. I will come back to this later on in response to questions from the SGP Group on middle incomes. Mr. Chairman. I was with Mrs Nooren and Mrs Gerkens on the annual fixing of interest rates and on the ease or ease with which the ten-year interest rate can be adjusted. It is true, I say to Mrs Nooren, that I will fix the interest rate for the following calendar year by December each year at the latest. I do so on the basis of a method of calculation laid down in Article 6.3 of the Act. I cannot deviate from the method of calculation laid down in the law. There is therefore no choice in this and certainly not arbitrary, because that article of the law sets out very precisely how we should calculate interest annually. Thus, the law does not give any room to choose another measure. That requires a change of law; that's why we're here tonight, to discuss that change of law. And if there is ever any intention that will not come from me to do anything about that interest rate measure again, then legislation will be needed again. The annual interest rate is fixed according to a certain formula in the law. I don't have any room to deviate from that formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u44	The Minister quoted correctly from the article of law, but my question was about the following. If we look back at the study advance law and the intention of that law to invest in the quality of education, should we not, as a result of the discussion we have just had, make a little more a connection between the proceeds of the study advance and the spending of the funds, and I am going to put it equally extremely to exclude contributions to the sustainability of state finances?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u45	Of course, you can always make that choice, but it was at the time, when that bill was introduced, your group did not support it either. It was deliberately not created at the time, because it was indeed intended to make the proceeds independent of the exact interest income. There were very good reasons for that at the time. Of course, you can always add or change things to a bill, such as the legislation on the study advance. Except we don't do that here. Your question was: does the Minister have room in it? No, I do not, because Article 6.3 lays down exactly what is to be done with interest rates. At the time, the study advance Act determined exactly what proceeds are being spent on, and we adhere to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u46	It's not a static whole. We're standing here right now, and we're looking at this bill. Sometimes you're gonna settle more things at the same time when there's a bill, things that are in the government agreement and things that are in the minister's ambition. I am looking for your ambition to invest in the quality and accessibility of higher education. To what extent do you think when making a law: I am going to arrange it in such a way that if I raise funds, I will increase the basis for the bill? By making it clear to everyone that the resources provided by former students who can carry it are being reinvested in education, the social loan system can gain more social support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u47	That choice was not made, because in line with that reasoning, you should say that if interest income were to fall short in the future, you would also have to get it out of education. We don't. The cabinet stands for the reasoning: we make the investment independent of interest income. I'm still in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u48	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u49	The fact that you're linking something doesn't mean you're pulling something out. That means adding more resources to achieve the same qualitative goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u50	Of course, I am never against investing in education again. Only as a minister and a member of this cabinet, I have a broader responsibility. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk of the SGP Group also asked me about the position of middle incomes: do you have an eye for that? The reduction in tuition fees proposed by this cabinet and approved by your Chamber at the time was intended to make higher education accessible to all. So this measure also applies to middle incomes. In addition, there is of course the increased additional grant. I would say to Mr Van Schalk that there is one for middle income. For one child without a school or studying siblings, students receive an additional scholarship up to an income of €50,000. With a student brother or sister that is up to €68,000 and with two students there is an additional scholarship to an income of €86,000. The picture that the supplementary grant would only be available for lower incomes is therefore not correct, because the number of children studying in a family is also taken into account. The increase in interest rates has no direct effect for students, but only for former students. They will only have to repay the loan on sufficient income thanks to these social refund conditions. The system is designed to take account of what people with middle incomes can reasonably repay. So even if you earn well above the minimum wage, it runs very slowly. Mrs Martens asked me what the implications would be for the education budget if the bill were not accepted. The Cabinet considers that this legislative proposal improves the sustainability of public finances, as envisaged in the government agreement. If the bill is not accepted, the balance will deteriorate. That's the consequence. The cabinet will then have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u51	The Minister says it will then go back to the entire rich budget, but my question was what it means for the education budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u52	I'm standing here defending a bill. I am not going to speculate on where the cabinet is going to find the solution in the unlikely event that the bill is not passed. That's really for discussion in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u53	But it can't be very much, can it? I understand that the bill will only yield 50 million in 2030 and that 226 million in 2060. So if this bill does not go through now, the impact on the budget is very small now and in the years to come, if I understand correctly. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u54	"Small" is always a relative concept. Let me tell you how that builds up. The first proceeds are expected in 2025. It starts with 1 million and gradually rises to 226 million in 2060. That's the structural yield. That is the contribution to the sustainability balance. It's getting in that line. I believe that we have shown you in the written preparation a table of what this development looks like. Mr Schalk asked: do you not first lure students into the system by halving tuition fees and then make them pay more? On this point, I have already said that the halving of tuition fees is indeed intended to help more people beyond that threshold, especially for teacher training. Fortunately, for example, we are now seeing an increase of 11% in pabo students. Again, students do not notice any of this proposal while studying. Once they have graduated, they will refund under the same conditions as agreed with your Chamber under the bill of study advance. In reply to his question, I say to Mr Schalk that students have to deal with a set of measures that are aimed at them on the one hand, and which is very important to me, in order to keep the system truly accessible. Students, for example, also have a travel facility. There's the supplementary scholarship. Of course, we have the loan and half the tuition fee. Again, it has no direct effect when you study, but it does once you graduate, in proportion to your income. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether the interest subsidy was a conscious part of the study advance system. Yeah, it is, and it's gonna stay that way. You can distinguish two of those grant elements, and both are consciously part of that system. First, students at DUO can take out a loan that they can repay over a period of 35 years. For this purpose, they pay an interest rate that is not part of the duration of such a loan, but which will soon be part of the ten-year interest rate on government bonds. Secondly, this interest rate is very favourable because of the high credit rating of the Dutch State, which students benefit from. Those favourable conditions remain. As a result, students can still borrow on very favourable terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u55	I'm going back to the original legal treatment four years ago. Minister Bussemaker specifically said that this study advance should be seen as an interest subsidy for young people who have graduated. She said this should not be seen as a consumer credit. The Minister says that we have been looking at young people and young adults and that they are 4% of their income; they can contribute a little more to public finances. That way of speaking cracks, as far as I'm concerned. This really touches on the core values of what was once meant by the bill that was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u56	Now Mrs Nooren is really putting a wrong tone in my mouth. As I said, there is still interest subsidies. I explained to you that this is on two fronts. We are, of course, still very far from a consumer credit. Above all, we must keep it that way. With this bill, on the one hand, the costs incurred by the government for loans that run for 35 years and, on the other hand, the costs incurred by graduates are a little more balanced. But we are still very, very, very far away from the conditions for a consumer credit. I'm really throwing away any comparison with that. Then you really paint a caricature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u57	I am extremely grateful to the Minister, because she has just spoken explicitly about this interest subsidy. She said that was an intended element, a policy instrument. In doing so, she is far more expressive than in her answer to the written questions. I'm grateful to her for that. At the same time we are at the crux of the whole. If that was indeed the intention of the study advance system, the reduction of the interest subsidy would therefore be to break down what was meant by the study advance system. The Minister cannot say a few things at the same time, namely: a we finish the interest subsidy, b that interest subsidy was intended for the study advance system and c we keep our agreements. It can't be combined.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u58	The interest subsidy was intended and we keep it. Only we bring the costs that the government incurs and the costs that we pay the former student, a little more into balance. But that doesn't change the agreements that were made at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u59	The repetition doesn't make it true yet. The Minister can say it three times, but what she says is: there were agreements and we are now closing the interest subsidy. It does not shuffle this for a moment before the Acts, but it is true that there is an answer to the objective of reducing the interest subsidy. If that interest subsidy was intended, if it were a specific policy instrument to allow for study, and if that was at the heart of the social character of the loan system, then the reduction of that interest subsidy would be to undermine that loan system. It's not better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u60	There is still a very large difference between a 35-year interest rate and a 10-year interest rate. Yes, you are right if this reduces the interest rate subsidy which, by the way, depends on how the interest rate develops. I also said that we're a little more balanced. But the instrument interest subsidy remains a very important part of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u61	I believe that we are so keen to have this discussion, because such a step that is being taken today will be able to set a precedent. That's the concern there is. You have a study advance system and you are taking a step in the direction that some parties here see as an opportunity to say: what do we find reasonable to ask? Now it's 10 years, but it can be 15 years and then 20 years. Then where does it end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u62	I'm just making this proposal. Therefore, a change in an interest rate measure is something we do by law, so that both chambers can make the weighting each time or we take a reasonable step that the system still keeps to the intentions of the system. The cabinet is convinced that this is still the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u63	I would like to take back what Mr Ganzevoort just asked the Minister: what other proposals have you considered? Basically, no other proposals have been considered, that the minister here is actually carrying out something more or less from the cabinet to her and that she has not looked at how she could solve it in any other way. That doesn't really give us the confidence that this might be the last time this proposal is there. I have heard other parties say in the first term: why take that ten-year period and why not change the deadline? It's 35 years now. When's it gonna be 30 years? What guarantees can this Minister give here that this is the only time that there will be an amendment to the original bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u64	I have no intention of making such a change again. And yes, I have also heard the questions that have been asked here: can it not be something else, can that interest be raised a bit? I will reply to that later that I do not see any bread in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u65	I heard the Minister very well. It has said that it has no intention of doing so, but I do not ask her what it intends to do. I ask her what guarantees she can give that other leaders will not make these proposals after her. The truth will be that she cannot give that guarantee and that we do not know for sure whether another step will be taken. With this tendency, this way of thinking is what Mrs Nooren is trying to indicate: "Let's take a different look at that loan, because that can also be a nice source of revenue," a step is taken to what we call a "slippery wreck" in good Dutch. That couldn't have been the intention of that loan system, could it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u66	Mrs Gerkens is, of course, right that I cannot give any guarantee as to what a next cabinet will do. A subsequent cabinet can do a great deal about all kinds of legislation, but I am telling you here that this cabinet, when it comes to interest rates, has no intention other than this. Even if a subsequent cabinet may have other intentions, there is still the parliament to take a critical look at that. That's what you're doing tonight to the fullest extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u67	We have been talking for a long time about interest subsidies, five-year interest rates and ten-year interest rates. But I do not hear the Minister saying that interest rates are historically very low at the moment. In fact, we can only expect that interest rate to continue to rise. How does the Minister weigh that? I mean that not so much in terms of the five-year or ten-year interest rate, but what are the effects of the expected increase in interest rates and therefore of the expected increase in study debt that we are assuming at the moment? What's that gonna mean to students?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u68	It is also difficult for me to speculate about future interest rates. We do know that the introduction of the study advance was based on an interest rate of 2.5%. We are now well below that in the five-year interest rate and ten-year interest rate. The only thing I can tell you is that we know from the trends of recent years that the difference between the five-year and ten-year interest rates is about 0.78%. That is what I know from the multiannual trend. How both the five-year and ten-year interest rates will develop over the next ten years is a little bit of a look in the glass ball. If we knew all that, maybe we wouldn't be standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u69	No, but we do have a historical awareness. We also know that rates and interest rates are cyclically sensitive. What I haven't heard from the Minister yet is that we know that the change from five to ten-year interest amounts to an increase in student debt of about €5,500 per student. But what are the effects of five- to ten-year interest rates if we do not expect this 2.6% but perhaps 4%? Because that may mean about €10,000 extra student debt. Those are quite the effects. How does the Minister view this? You're talking about long-term sustainability, 2060. Then the generations of students of today are about to retire, so that's really in the very long term. Then you really have to take account of these cyclical fluctuations and, therefore, also of increases in the interest rates that we assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u70	We can, of course, make calculations here all evening: what does it mean for a debt with any interest rate? To protect graduates from increases in interest rates, we have built in conditions when paying off, so you'll never lose more than 4% of your income and your residual debt will be forgiven after 35 years. So higher interest rates for some groups can mean paying more monthly. But it remains that these conditions and the protection of your income remain valid for all groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u71	I also hear the Minister always talking about the monthly amounts to be paid for the later highly educated, well-earned former student...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u72	Also for the less well-earned former student.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u73	Sure. But that's not my point. My point is that the total student debt is also increasing. When, for example, the former student enters the housing market and wants to mortgage, he will not have an additional debt of €5,500 but an additional debt of €10,000. This will also have effects on the ability to take on mortgages, for example. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u74	I have already said that the weighting is down. When taking out a mortgage, it does not look at the total debt, but at the monthly amounts, because it is a debt that you repay step by step in 35 years. In addition, early redemption has an effect on the monthly expenses, and thus on what is included with your mortgage. As the monthly amount increases, this obviously has consequences for the mortgage. That is true sec, but once again, because of the social framework conditions in the system, we have ensured that it is never more than 4% of your income above the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u75	Another small supplementary question. The Minister may rightly point out that we can make sums all evening about how high interest rates and so on are going to be, but of course we do not know that. In other words, how can we ask an 18-year-old student to commit to something that we as a government and as a parliament cannot ascertain what it is going to mean? For us it is already incalculable, so how is a student supposed to relate to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u76	I understand that question, but for the answer it does not matter whether you use the ten-year interest rate or the five-year interest rate, because the five-year interest rate can also fluctuate. Had it not been for this bill, you could have asked me the same question and I should have said: we do not know what the five-year interest rate will be in ten, fifteen or twenty years' time. So that uncertainty does not change with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u77	On the understanding that it changes so that we now know that the ten-year rate of student interest will have to pay €5,500 extra interest. There is therefore a difference between the five-year interest rate and the ten-year interest rate. Otherwise we would not have to talk about this amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u78	The amounts may indeed change, but the uncertainty about interest rates will not change. I said that the only thing we know now is that the difference over the past few years was about 0.78%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u79	Mrs Teunissen, if you have placed your interruption, I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to deal with her answer, otherwise we will be here at three o'clock tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u80	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity. I have heard the Minister's speech about how difficult it is to predict exactly what this means for students. Then I wonder how the Minister will get that amount of EUR 226 million in 2060. If all these amounts can differ, in the sense of what it means for students, then the amount of EUR 226 million in 2060 can also vary enormously. So there's no way to predict that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u81	There is, of course, very little to be said about the distant future. It always is. Again, the forecasts made are based on the average difference between the five- and ten-year interest rates in the historical perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u82	Mrs Teunissen, you may repeat one more time, but then the Minister will really go on without interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u83	In that case, the whole purpose of this legislative proposal is a little questionable, because the objective is, to put it bluntly, the state treasury, but the Minister does not know whether the state treasury can actually be adequately matched with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u84	Then my answer remains the same as before. This is based on the average difference between the five- and ten-year interest rates in historical perspective. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about the effects on the monthly expenses. A number of your members were concerned about that. Let me try again to set out exactly what this is all about and what changes and what doesn't. I would like to say once again that at least nothing is changing for the people who are already paying back. The interest rate measure remains unchanged for them. Also for the current students, so for everyone who is already studying, nothing changes at all. The ten-year rate will only apply to students who start studying from 2020. For that group something is going to change through this law and that may have consequences for the amount to be paid back. I say 'possible', because there are also groups that are not affected at all. In response to a question from Mr Bruijn, I answer the following. Take, for example, someone with an average debt of €21,000 with an annual income of €40,000. For this person nothing changes in the amount to be paid back. With the current interest rate measure, that amount would be approximately €65 in the month. At the ten-year rate, that amount remains exactly the same. This is the result of a social refund condition in the system. We are not just looking at the debt and the interest rate that applies, but also at the income. That protects every former student from excessive monthly expenses. But what if such a person, for example, would make €50,000? In this case, the monthly refund amount would increase by around €12, an increase from €70 to €82. For example, a much smaller debt of €5,000 is an increase of about €3 per month if the income allows it. Several of you also used many large numbers. I hear them often in the debate, even outside this Chamber. That is also possible if you add up all the monthly amounts over 35 years and thus calculate the total amount. With Mr Bruijn, too, I would say that everyone who does so must also take it away from incomes over that period. For example, an income of €40,000 in 35 years is about an income of €1.4 million. You must always see that in that affair. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the consequences for the former student at the housing market. Mr Bruijn, Mrs Duthler and Mr Van Kesteren asked for this and outlined concerns of students. I understand students' concerns regarding the housing market and getting a mortgage very well. The housing market is very tight at the moment and it is often not easy to buy a house as a starter. However, starters who are now experiencing problems there are virtually all people who are covered by the old system. There are hardly any others now. You must have studied really fast if you're graduating and going to buy a house. The former students who are now buying a house are people who have studied under the old system. With the introduction of the study advance, the weighting factor by which study loans count in mortgage lending has been reduced from 0.75% to 0.45%. This lower weighting will continue to apply even after this legislative proposal has been introduced. In concrete terms, this means that the old system included an average debt of €15,000 with a monthly charge of €112.50 for the provision of a mortgage, while under the new system there is a lower monthly burden of €94.50. For many, therefore, there is an improvement in the new system compared to the old one, because the refund conditions have improved and the weighting has been reduced. This interest rate measure increases the average debt to €21,500, which increases the monthly burden a little bit, to €96,75. That's still a lot lower than in the old system. Thus, the loan system itself has a positive effect on obtaining a mortgage. But again, I understand the concerns of students very well, because at the moment it is just not easy as a starter in the housing market. Mr Bruijn and Mr Bikker asked about the Spring note: are there no financial problems in the institution due to the increased number of students? In my opinion, the Minister of Finance brought out the Spring Note yesterday. In that you have seen that considerable sums have been released. These are intended not only to address, for example, the redistributing effects that the Van Rijn report would have in the case of shifts to science and technology, but also to the problems that often arise in the education budget from setbacks in the estimates. The estimates are always very precise, so those setbacks are always very small, but they do have great effects so that we can take them in a good way. So there are measures in the Spring Paper. The total amount involved is well over 100 million. Mrs. Bikker asked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u85	I see that Mrs Bikker wants to interrupt, but I had just said that the Minister should be able to make a few meters and not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u86	Mr. Chairman. What has been the maximum difference between the five-year interest rate and the ten-year interest rate? That was a question from Mrs Bikker. In the period from 1990 to now, the maximum difference was 1.1%, which was in 2010. On average, therefore, it was 0.78%. Mr Bruijn asked Mr Bruijn why I did not opt for a longer term than ten years in interest rates, for example fifteen years. His reasoning was that this was better suited to the maximum duration of the loan, also in view of the fact that the interest rate is now much lower than the interest rate that was taken into account at the time. It is true that the ten-year interest rate is currently much lower than the 2.5% included in the introduction of the study advance. It is also true that the 10-year term is still short compared to the maximum duration of the study loan, which is 35 years. And yet we have chosen to use the ten-year interest rate and not a longer-term interest rate, because as a result, I am committed to saying that again here, the refund conditions remain truly social. It also does justice to the fact that a lot of students pay early. Interest rates are now low, but that does not mean that they will remain so in the future, so that is certainly not an argument to increase interest rate rates. Mr Bruijn had another question about the fear of rising interest rates. He said that fear can be there in general and not so much as a result of this bill. That's right. The five-year interest rate may also fluctuate; it could also increase. The same applies to the ten-year interest rate. This bill doesn't change anything. Mr Bruijn also asked me whether I can confirm that the government still pays a large proportion of students' study costs in higher education. Yeah, that's right. The government pays most of the study costs of students in higher education. The educational expenditure per student is €7,300 per year. In addition, there is of course the student travel product with a value of about €1,100 per student per year and 30% of students in higher education receive an additional scholarship of an average of €3,500 per year. The government also grants the student loans with the interest rate subsidy......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Bruijn asked for confirmation of the fact that the current generation will not be covered by the bill after graduation. That's right. The starting date is 1 January 2020 at the earliest. Couldn't get into that sooner, he asked. No, we specifically didn't choose that. We do not think that we should change that benchmark for students who have already studied. Students may know in advance what they are up to. Mrs Bikker and Mr Bruijn asked about the outcome of my announced discussion with the Nibud about taking the purchasing power figures into account in their investigations. That conversation with the Nibud has taken place. The Nibud started an investigation into the possibility of calculating purchasing power plates in early May. That investigation's still going on until August. The Nibud investigates whether they can also include purchasing power images of students in their research. They have indicated to me that this is still a very complicated exercise. It is not yet certain that that can actually be done. The situations of students are sometimes very different. I expect to give you more information about this after the summer. Mr Van Kesteren asked whether it would not be reasonable or fair for former students with a moral income to be eligible for remission, for example because of mortgage payments. Yes, that is reasonable, I say to him, and that is already happening in the system, because any residual debt will always be waived after the 35-year repayment period. To give you another calculation example: someone has a student debt of €15,000 and a constant income of €35,000 after the study. After the payback period of 35 years, this person is forgiven about €4,600, provided that he did not choose to repay more early, but he didn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u87	How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u88	Mr President, I have two more cubes to go. I will try to do so as quickly as possible, but Members also had many questions. Let me now turn to accessibility. Concerns have been expressed by your Chamber as to what this bill means for the accessibility of higher education. This accessibility is and will continue to be ensured by the fact that students in higher education can make use of all existing elements of study funding. I've just mentioned them. I am convinced that adjusting interest rate rates has little or no effect on that accessibility. First of all, students do not have to pay anything extra during their studies; that is only when they pay back. Secondly, former students only have to pay the extra interest if they have sufficient income. These two elements keep the system accessible. What is not helping, anyway, is to say here that there are factual inaccuracies and falsehoods about the system. A member of the House of Representatives, for example, said in an interview that former students above the minimum wage will soon have to pay back hundreds of euros. That's bullshit. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u89	A brief interruption, Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u90	Very briefly. The Minister talks about accessibility and beliefs, but has she also investigated the impact on accessibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u91	I'll get to that. Let us also ensure that we do not disrupt accessibility ourselves by spreading false images about the system. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Duthler asked if we're doing research. Yeah, we do. We conduct annual research through the Policy Measures Monitor. We also monitor the accessibility of the system. You almost all had questions about that. Access to higher education in general and to vulnerable groups in particular has my constant attention. I have said this repeatedly in the House of Representatives and sent a separate letter to the Chamber. We monitor this every year through the Policy Measures Monitor. That's an extensive monitor. Last year it was no less than 234 pages. In this monitor, for example, we look specifically at first generation students, students from the lower socio-economic classes, students with a migration background and students with a disability. The monitor shows that the direct flow to higher education by 63% is as good as at the same level as before the introduction of the study advance. Moreover, the monitor shows that loan version as such is not a decisive factor in the choice of young people to study or not to study. Also, compared to previous years, fewer young people experience financial difficulties. The most recent monitor shows that the share of students who themselves have experienced financial difficulties since 2012 has decreased from 18% in 2012 to 14% in 2017. Moreover, the proportion of students covered by the new system and experiencing financial difficulties is lower than the proportion of students experiencing financial difficulties in the old system. These data from the monitor strengthens me in the belief that the loan system does not prevent prospective students from going to study. Around the summer the next monitor will appear, which I will also offer to your Room. That monitor keeps showing up every year. On top of that, we will be implementing this autumn the Klever motion which called on me to monitor the flow after four years. I already referred to that. Of course, I'm going to make that motion. For this year's budget debate, I have come up with a proposal on exactly how we are going to do that. Of course, we will also involve students in the design of this monitor. Why are you monitoring? Why are you gonna do such an evaluation? Should the results give rise to this, I will not hesitate to carry out further studies if necessary and to take measures, if necessary, to ensure accessibility. Some of you had very specific questions about the havists. For example, Mr Bruijn asked me about the flow of havists after the introduction of the study advance. I can reassure him: there is no indication that the advance of the study led to a decrease in student flow. The total direct flow shows a fairly stable line. The direct flow from the havo remains slightly below the level of the diploma cohort 2011-2012 by two percentage points, but is similar to the diploma cohort 2015-2016 and is around 75%. For the MBO, the direct flow rate is five percentage points lower, between 2011-2012 on the one hand and 2015-2016 on the other. We see a slight decrease in this, but we also note that this decrease had already been introduced for the study advance. One of the explanations for this could be the much better labour market perspective for young people with an MBO degree. We will continue to monitor this closely. We will continue to investigate that. Once again in the implementation of the Klever motion, as agreed on the adoption of the Higher Education Advancement Act, we will investigate very precisely whether there are any effects on the inflow and flow. I say to the Chamber that if those effects are really visible, we will naturally see how to fix them. For with all of you, I believe that we need to maintain access to higher education in the Netherlands in terms of accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u92	I had asked another question about havists from a welfare family and I asked the Minister to take action, not whether the Minister is taking action. That's what the letters say. Is the minister still going to come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u93	Yes, the CBS study on the havists was my next point. Indeed, that CBS study shows that there is a difference between havists with parents in paid employment and havists with parents in welfare. I must say, however, that the CBS has only looked at two variables: the year of success in a Havo and the welfare dependency of parents. So the CBS is different from the monitor. Important other variables, such as the average final figure and the migration background, were not included in that study. As a result, we have to say that the research provides an incomplete picture. Again, in the monitor, but also in the evaluation, we will look very closely at the effects for the havists and for the different categories of income. You are asking me what measures I am going to take, but I cannot tell you that yet, otherwise it would mean that the measures were independent of the effect we are seeing. Of course, you must first see if there is a problem and, if so, what exactly it looks like and what solution is appropriate and adequate. After that, you need to see if it helps access. There is no point in saying now: it would be those and those measures. We're just gonna do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u94	I hear the Minister when there are results. I get that. And she says that there are nuances to be made, a la "yes, but then they are havists and I haven't looked at the final figure or the migration background, so we need to do additional research on that." The child who did Havo is at least 24 before the investigation. That is why, I think, it is important to think in advance as a minister: if a certain group fails, I do not have a lot of time to take action, otherwise children simply fall short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u95	That's right. That is why we also have the policy monitor every year, so that we can annually check whether there are effects in the form of reduced inflow or flow into higher education. You will also be given the monitor, so we can look together every year to see whether adjustments are needed or whether we need to take measures to promote the flow. Let me say again that the CBS study was very limited and produced much less data. There's been a lot less accurate checks than we put in the monitor. Of course, there's no point in monitoring and evaluating if you don't have the willingness to do something about it if you notice a problem. I am prepared to do so at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u96	I have every confidence in the willingness of the Minister and also in the importance she attaches to accessibility. Well, I do have a question. We have, of course, had discussions earlier on accessibility and, for example, on the generic measure of halving tuition fees. At that time we also discussed the whole of the specific accessibility problems that there are. Because of everything the minister is saying right now, it looks like she's shopping a little selective in the monitor. In general, it is true that accessibility is not easy, but there are specific groups within which it is difficult. We are not doing enough to deal with these specific groups. To put it mildly: we are throwing a lot of money into a measure such as the halving of tuition fees for the first year, but we are not spending much money on the specific groups of stackers or students from families with a migration background or from low socio-economic groups, even though we know that the fear of borrowing plays a role there. Let us not generalise things too much here, as if it were not generally easy. I'd like to give it to the Minister, but the real problems are much more specific, so let's solve them. I'd like to hear more from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u97	I did not want to repeat the debate on half the tuition fees. I would like to say again that so far the figures in the monitor have not shown that there are specific problems within specific groups. If that is the case, I am, of course, prepared to look at what is needed for that particular group to ensure that higher education remains accessible to all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u98	I mentioned two specific groups that appear in the monitor. There are no specific measures for this. There will only be a generic measure that costs a lot of money and does not solve it. So this answer doesn't help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u99	For example, let's look at the flow from mbo to hbo, about which we were concerned. We have taken a package of measures of no less than 32.1 million to promote the flow and guidance of these students. So don't act like we're not doing anything about it. We are investing heavily in this to ensure that this flow is maintained. And again, we saw some of that decline before the entry into force of the study advance. This also has to do with perhaps also happy but also with the labour market perspective which, for example, is very favourable for students of the MBO. It is therefore also a real and attractive choice to go to work. So yes, we are doing the necessary work on this flow, with very specific programmes, very specific in the region and in agreement with the institutions concerned. I always have that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u100	All the way to the end, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u101	Yes, I'm sorry, Chairman, but this rhetoric isn't helping. Because by mentioning one specific group that my question was not about, you are not answering the question what it was about. The question was about groups where the fear of borrowing is greater, for example the groups I mentioned earlier. It wasn't specifically the streamers I mentioned. I mentioned two other groups. So please just answer my question, not anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u102	But in the investigations we have carried out, we see that fear of borrowing as such does not play any part in this. We see that some groups suffer more from loan anxiety than other groups. You're right about that. But then you look: does that play a decisive role in the question of whether they are going to study? No, it doesn't. We look very closely at whether something people experience has an effect on their choice. We see that there is no such effect at the moment. Once again, however, I would like to say that if there are real concerns about reduced accessibility, then we are going to take very targeted measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u103	I have argued in my term that there are now some changes to the loan system, which means that the investigations that are now under way have no value either. These investigations cannot make predictions, for example about the reliability of the government, which is obviously at stake, because it was first promised "this is what it is" and now there will be another change within four years. Does the Minister exclude that this is now going to play a role, especially in those groups where we are already wondering whether they are going to take those decisions because they do not know if they will be stuck with a higher amount of interest, for example, than the whole amount they have ever borrowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u104	We can't rule that out, and that's why we're investigating it. That's why we monitor that every year. But once again, we are not seeing any impact of the loan system on entry and transit at the moment, and we are going to monitor closely and monitor whether this will change after the entry into force of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u105	Then I conclude that the Minister says: we do not know. That is a risk the Minister wants to take, and if it costs money to fix it, who knows, maybe 226 million dollars together, then we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u106	I have little to add to my answer, but I always think you should first determine if you have a problem and then see exactly how you're gonna fix it. I'm not going to speculate about that in advance. Mr. Chairman. There were also several questions about mental pressure among students. Some of you have also asked me about my view on the recently published RIVM research. That showed up last week. In that RIVM research we see that stress and performance pressure play a role. To some extent they are also part of studying: a certain amount of pressure is also part of that. That RIVM research says that it is mainly about the balance between the pressure and the stress you experience and the resilience you have against it. The RIVM research makes it very clear that there is not one factor that causes stress and psychological complaints. It's always about a accumulation of factors. I had hoped that the RIVM research would give a little more clarity about what it's about for students, so that we could deal with it. I found the investigation a little disappointing in that respect. Some of you said the same thing. I expected more of it. That is why we will give a follow-up mission for a more large-scale quantitative zero measurement of the psychological problems among students. We will also involve the students themselves in this research. In addition, I am implementing the Bruins motion that calls for a check to see if there are sufficient facilities for students experiencing psychological problems at all MBO institutions and higher education institutions. In this context, Mrs Nooren asked me about the WRR's recommendations on people's capacity to act. If you know, sometimes you don't act on it. It's a fair question. I'm sure we'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u107	Thank you for the Minister's in-depth investigation. At the same time, it's very difficult, because if you're not measuring until someone burns out, then he's all the way to the end. You'd rather know when that mental pressure is. Is the Minister also asking for instruments to be put in place to increase this pressure? I know it's incredibly complicated, but I'd like the Minister to look at that, too, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u108	Yes, Mr President, of course we would like to look at that. Of course, you don't want any trouble. We therefore need to look for the key points to prevent this kind of problem among students.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u109	In addition to that. I'm a little freaked out by the word "quantitative research." The first thing people with work pressure and stress no longer do is read their mail and participate in research. This also advises the company doctor: stop contacting you regularly. So there's a chance of systematic failure of those involved. I would like to ask the Minister to consider not only quantitative but also qualitative research in the design of the research and to pay particular attention to the lifestyle of people who experience work pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u110	By the way, I am doing this quantitative research at the explicit request of the House of Representatives. A request for this was supported by the Labour Party. Of course we will ensure that we have the group in close touch. We will ask experts to do a good study and ask them to take into account the specific requirements of quantitative questioning of this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u111	RIVM indeed concludes that there are gaps in the inventory it has done. In addition, there are differences in the measuring instruments used by the CBS, RIVM and Windesheim research. That's what RIVM says. Now the Minister says she's coming up with a zero reading. Wouldn't it be a good idea to first establish these research methods and the measuring instruments properly? What's the rush behind this bill? Why is it not first considered to what extent these alarming reports of stress in young people are caused by finance before a bill comes to this Chamber at all? What's the rush?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u112	It's two things. The discussion about stress and mental pressure that students experience has far more factors than just this one. We're looking at that in width. Frankly, the questions about doing good research on mental pressure among students, on which I also had a discussion in the Lower House, are separate from this bill. So: yes, we're going to investigate it very carefully, because you have to look in broad terms at what the targets are for that. For example, part of this pressure can also be caused by the fact that students in the first year are faced with a binding study advice that is very sharp. So we're gonna take a broad look at that. Yeah, we're gonna get a good, expert setup for the investigation. But the question of that whole spectrum of factors, which leads to mental pressure among students? To map well is separate from this bill. That is what we are going to do anyway, and we are also mapping out what the finances are contributing to it. Let me now turn to the capacity and comments of the WRR on this matter. I would like to reassure Mrs Nooren: we certainly take that into account. I also follow the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in this regard, in order to better connect with the experiences of students. DUO now also offers students a calculation tool in order to give them a good insight into the amount they need to borrow. They use the insights of the Nibud. In addition, DUO also uses behavioural scientific insights to help young people make informed choices. For example, students who wanted to borrow always saw the maximum loan amount in the application screen. We have adapted that, which has indeed led to a significant reduction in the number of students who were going to borrow as much as possible. DUO is also now conducting an experiment to give student loaners insight into their final student debt. They are reminded of the consequences of their debt and can then, if necessary, adjust their borrowing behaviour. So we are very busy using these behavioral scientific insights in the way DUO deals with educating students but also, for example, with the guidance after graduation when they pay off. Then I come to my last block, following the questions about the IVESCR. Several political groups have asked questions about that treaty. That treaty is about much more, but it is indeed also about the accessibility of higher education. I sent you a letter on this matter on 20 March this year. As I wrote in that letter, according to the government, the provision of the Treaty means that no one can be held back from various forms of education for financial reasons. The fulfilment of this Treaty obligation must therefore be seen by policy measure throughout the existing system. Contrary to ISO, for example, there is no obligation under the Treaty to allow the budgets released by this amendment to benefit education or students. This is confirmed by Professor of Education Law Pieter Huisman. Last week I also received the wonderful standard work by Professor Zoontjens on education law. He also confirms this vision in this standard work on education law. The Netherlands therefore adheres to this Convention by providing various facilities to keep higher education accessible to all. We are therefore acting in the spirit of the Treaty. For the sake of time, I will not repeat what we are all doing to maintain that accessibility, because we have had a lot of exchanges this evening. The cabinet has actually been very consistent in its vision of this since the Treaty was drawn up. This view is also maintained in case law and by various educational law experts. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my first reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u113	At least one of my questions has not been answered, so perhaps it can still be answered. It's about the behavioral effect that students may be borrowing less. In the Lower House, among other things, the CDA asked about this. Among other things, it has been asked here by the Christian Union. My question to the Minister was whether she recognizes that argument and whether it is true that this is indeed the expectation. And if that's true, what does it do with the proceeds of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u114	Let me be very clear about that. This is not a recital which is the basis for the submission of this proposal. What DUO also sends in the guidance of students, is that they mainly borrow what they need, no more but no less. If you think students borrow too much, there are, as I have just explained, other tools to ensure that students think carefully about the amount of money they borrow and how much they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u115	So it's not a purpose. Is it an expectation that this is one of the effects of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u116	No, we expect students to borrow what they need to successfully complete their studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u117	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this way, the Minister says that the argument that the CDA and the Christian Union could use to vote in favour of this proposal is being taken away from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u119	Everyone must always use their own considerations to vote for or against a legislative proposal. In any case, it has not been considered by the cabinet when submitting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u120	Thank you, Minister. I understand you want a short suspension. Is ten minutes okay? Fifteen minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u121	Half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u122	Half an hour? Oh, I'll take a look around the room. I see some tormented looks. Shall we keep it for 20 minutes? Okay, then I'll suspend the meeting until 10:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u123	We continue to deal with the bill 35007, change the interest rate measure for the loan higher education. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your patience in our first term, given all the questions we had. Thank you to the Minister for answering and, above all, for the feminineness with which she has done so. The beauty of a debate like this tonight is that we are considering the ins and outs of a proposal here in full depth. With that sharpness and those ins and outs are of course also the moments when we do not fully understand each other or that we get a bit frustrated, because the answer is just not what we want to hear and so on, but that is also part of exploring exactly where the weaknesses really are in the plans. I have one point to make right. Or "correction": it actually sees more on the nutmeg, which our chairman loves so much. I'm gonna have to do it verbally. I mentioned the beard tax. Of course, I didn't think of that myself. The minister knows that colleague Frank Futselaar of the SP has already come up with this in the Lower House, but he was not the first. In all honesty, in 1689 it was Peter the Great who introduced the beard tax as part of the Westening of Russian society. Okay, let's get this over with. In general education, you know that kind of thing. I don't know if all the students of today can still receive such a wide-ranging education if they have to borrow that much money, but we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u125	Do you know where the dog tax comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u126	The dog tax? I hate dogs so much I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u127	I'm gonna tell you about that next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u128	I can't wait. This was an interruption, so it won't go away from my time. Mr. Chairman. We need to take stock of the situation. The minister says she's just gonna keep the agreements and the promises. In my opinion, it became clear in the first period that she is actually proposing that students should pay more for their student loans, however you continue to talk about the precise details, the arrangements and the structures. It's as simple as that. That is an active intervention by the Minister who touches on the promises. I come to the conclusion, on the basis of my questions, that the proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. The aim is not well worked out and the alternatives have not been considered. Those are just two formal aspects that are weak in this proposal. It has not been made clear what the impact on public finances would be if this were not accepted. The Minister says something about this, but in the end the need for this proposal is very weak for this Chamber. We have also discussed in detail the effects on accessibility, the issues involved and the specific information we have on borrowing and vulnerable groups. The Minister promises that she will continue to do something about this accessibility, but in the end that is an issue that is indeed weakened by this proposal. In the end, I think, we will come to the heart of the matter: is this proposal or is it not an undermining of the study advance proposal? As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that it is. In fact, the Minister admitted it in so many words: it is a reduction in the interest rate subsidy. That's just in the target. The interest subsidy was a characteristic part of the study advance. The reduction of the interest subsidy is, by definition, a deterioration of the study advance. It's not more complicated than that. The Minister said: this is a very simple proposal. That's right. It is a simple proposal which is deeply undermining the principles of the study advance, precisely on this point, the reduction of interest subsidies. In this way, it is by definition also a non-compliance with the promise. That is the hardest point in our view. Then there will be a lot of maths. The minister said we could make a lot more, but let's not. Let me mention one. The minister regularly uses the example of an average student debt of €15,000, while the expected student debt is already €21,000. That means something to the sums. But no matter how you make the sums and however you look at the fluctuating interest rates, the bald outcome is more than three-quarters of an extra interest rate. It's as simple as that. It is on average €5,500 per student. Then we can do a lot more math, but this is the story we're talking about. It is about damaging the core of the study advance system, non-compliance with the promise and €5,500 additional debt per student. That wasn't what GroenLinks signed for at the time. That was not the idea we had in the study advance system. That was about increasing accessibility. This was about creating a social system in all kinds of ways, not only in the conditions that remain, but also in the undermining of those conditions, which are now taking place. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'm going to advise my group. That advice can only be negative. This Minister cannot count on my group's support for this proposal. We do not participate in undressing the study advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Education must remain accessible to all young people who want and can follow it. In this bill we continue to puzzle about our questions: why now, why so? At the time, the introduction of the study advance was acceptable to the PvdA because of the link with the quality and accessibility of higher education. At that time, a five-year interest rate was deliberately chosen. We have just read back the explanatory memorandum. I quote: 'With regard to the reimbursement at a later age and the possible financial risks, an interest rate-fixing period of five years is chosen'. A conscious choice for five years interest rate-fixed: conscious, low, responsible, social. The interest subsidy is an essential part of the bill, as Mr Ganzevoort said at the time. This is at the heart of the social character of the study advance. The interest subsidy will be reduced by the legislative proposal that is now before us. This is contrary to the principles of the study advance. It is a step in the wrong direction for us. As far as we are concerned, the issue of the non-tenability of public finances and the question of whether this is the case is not convincingly answered by the Minister. This bill puts pressure on the political and social support of a social loan system. The burden is borne by young people and young adults from families with middle and lower incomes. The potential effects of the bill have not been investigated in advance. We are doing all this at a time when young people and young adults are increasingly struggling. There is no study of these mental abilities of young people and there is no good measuring instrument. That is precisely what concerns us. We thank the Minister for her commitment to choosing an instrument that gives a real insight into these mental abilities of young people. As far as I am concerned, this may go beyond a quantitative measuring instrument, as requested by the House of Representatives. I hope that it can really see the causes of this pressure on students and young people and that it will take appropriate action. I would like to challenge the Minister to think about this now, because the time between thinking and acting of young people who have to study is short. As we pointed out in the first term, we want to see this before any step is taken, otherwise there is a chance that young people who want to study will be sidelined. The need for the bill has not convinced us. Our group sees no need to introduce the legislative proposal now. I will advise my group to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u131	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply. However, we are not convinced of the need for this bill. The Minister, as well as Mr Bruijn, have both indicated that the increase in interest rates is necessary for the sustainability of public finances, which ignores their own arguments in the introduction of the loan system, arguing that the student should contribute to the quality of his or her own education. Now the proceeds go to the state treasury and not to the improvement of education. With that, you ask the former student for a double contribution. I ask the Minister what the justification is that they have to make a double contribution. In addition, it provides an uncertain factor for the students. Now interest rates are low, but that was different not so long ago. The bizarre thing is that the student only knows after the study how high the costs of the repayment will be, because this multi-annual interest rate is charged. This bill only increases uncertainty about the consequences of borrowing to study, not only by increasing interest rate rates, but also by submitting this change so soon after the introduction of the loan system. The government has proved to be an unreliable partner for the student. Mr. Chairman. My group finds it unbelievable that this cabinet encourages students to take a loan, while it is not clear what the final consequences are, for example because of the poor information provided by DUO, which the Minister did not mention either. The mantra is that this increase costs only €12 per month, or a few beers, as has often been said. I have to say that I find that a bathing remark, as if we only have beer-drinking students who take on a loan, or only former students who drink beer. This €12 is based on the interest rates of recent years. If that interest rate is going to rise, and that's really going to happen once, you're suddenly paying a lot more, possibly even more interest than you've ever borrowed. How does the Minister feel about this? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the entire profit, the goal, of this bill is also uncertain. In fact, it is a bit of a wet finger bill. What is the Minister going to do if less than EUR 226 million is collected in 2060? Is she going to come up with another proposal for a change? Mr. Chairman. I have heard and seen that the Chamber is very critical of this bill. Yesterday, some of the 27 student and youth organisations offered us as many as 112,000 signatures, with the urgent appeal not to support this bill. That's really a lot, really a lot. In addition, we were sent letters with personal calls. The struggle of the pupils and students has been tireless. I therefore sincerely hope that there will be no majority in favour of this proposal. It has been a long evening, and although we are not voting until next week, I can still express the hope that it will then turn out that this was the student's night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u133	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thanks also to the Minister for replying tonight. Sometimes it is useful to make something very concrete at the moment when there is a difficult subject ahead. Let me put it this way: if this law had entered into force 35 years ago I realized that tonight I was going to have a party this year. When I was 21, I graduated from the PA; today it's called the pabo. After that, I was in military service for about 16 months. So I was 22 when I got out, and now I'm 57. So this year I would have finally repaid my college debt. That would not have been bad, because I would have had the pleasure of that study; that is clear. Today we have heard that we want to secure public finances by initially well-earned, highly educated people. Fortunately, that has been adapted to earning and simply educated people. This means that former students who have a minimum youth wage or minimum wage will also pay as soon as they get up there. I've just converted it. I think the annual minimum wage amounts to approximately €22,000. We have several debates here. Last December, we were talking about the Tax Plan. Then we talked about the fact that the first €10,000 you're going to earn more from that minimum wage, so the step from €22,000 to €32,000, creates a marginal pressure of 90%. At that time, it was calculated that someone who will earn €10,000 extra will be able to earn €91. That is not the calculation made by Peter Schalk, but the calculation confirmed by the Secretary of State for Finance. In short, it becomes very difficult for students and former students. Ten-year interest rates make it even harder. For my group, which at the time was already opposed to the loan system, which we were not going to talk about tonight, this law does not make it any better for students. It has just been suggested that there may be a vote next week. But the Minister can also join Minister Bruins and Minister Dekker, who repealed laws this month. I wish the Minister much strength in making a choice. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for her answers. The CDA considers good and accessible education to be extremely important. That is what we said in the first term. Many questions were asked in the first term, and our group also had questions. We have taken good note of the Minister's answers. We in the group will consider what this means for our position in the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u137	Thank you, Mrs Martens. Mrs Baay didn't need a second term. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her first-term response. When I held my first term yesterday, I said: studying is more than return. One of the Christian Union's objections to the loan system was our concern that it puts pressure on students because they need to study as efficiently and as quickly as possible. That is why our electoral programme called for a basic grant, in which this measure indeed stood. The Minister is now only talking about the measure contained in the election programme of the Christian Union, but I am committed to continuing to tell the other part of the story. She'll understand that, because that just makes it another story. Mr. Chairman. I had a few more questions and I would like to ask them to the Minister because we did not get to them in the first period. My first question concerns the sustainability of public finances in broad terms. As far as I am concerned, the Minister gave a clear answer on the education budget, but I asked the question in a somewhat broader light. The spring note just came out. What impact does this have on the sustainability of public finances in the broad sense? I would like to see what the Minister can do for us on that point. A second point on which I have a further question is Nibud research among students. The Minister has indicated that the purchasing power investigation is ongoing and that she will continue to talk about it with the Nibud. As the Minister comes to the Chamber again after the summer, I would like to say the following. In particular, the Christian Union Group wanted to know what part of the student loan is needed for the study and for necessary consumption such as room rental, food, drink and some clothes, but also which part is not necessary. There are also students who borrow to be able to invest. There are more examples of things that are not related to the study loan and which are a perverse incentive to otherwise use the money. I heard the example of students borrowing to pay rent for a room to their parents because those parents bought a house. That's a lock for which we didn't mean this money. I would very much like to have that insight, precisely because I want to fight against high debts. We have to keep working on that. I will continue to find that a point of profit from this bill, even though Mr Ganzevoort believes that if the Minister does not think so, that should not be a reason for me to be in favour of the bill. But that's not how it works in this country. The Christian Union can certainly make its own decisions, without the Minister agreeing or disagreeing with them. I would like to give that to Mr Ganzevoort. Mr. Chairman. As far as the IVESCR is concerned, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. That was enough for me at the moment. At another time, with a larger law on higher education, we can spar more about this. My final point concerns research into student welfare. I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to carry out a larger, quantitative investigation, including at the request of the House of Representatives. At the same time, my concern remains that we will mainly be measuring burn-outs. And then we're all at the end, at a time when students are really far from home. I want to understand that mental pressure sooner and better. I know that's incredibly complicated. RIVM indicates that, too. As far as I am concerned, we are really looking at how we can develop this instrument. Can the Minister promise that we will come to a more refined picture precisely on that point? Because I think that helps anyone who wants to do good things for students. And I think that's what we all want. Questions have been asked and I look forward to the Minister's reply. If that is the case, I can make the final assessment of this bill with my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u139	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u140	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. Mr. Chairman. The large number of students who indicate they experience stress. The objective is purely and exclusively to keep public finances healthy, contrary to the purpose of the loan and not sufficiently explained. The lack of research into alternative possibilities. The completely unclear impact on students and the lack of clarity regarding the feasibility of the purpose of this bill. These are the faults. These deficiencies are disproportionate in relation to the problem-solving capacity of this proposal. In fact, there is a high risk that the financial problems of young people will only increase. It also threatens to undermine key values: accessibility, quality, equality within education and, not to mention, well-being. Not these values are set here, but affordability, even if it is at the expense of the core values. We simply don't know whether it is actually a violation of those core values. As far as my group is concerned, too much is unclear and there is not enough research, for example on the pressure that young people have on their finances. Mr. Chairman. When parents go out to dinner with their children, parents usually pay the bill and not the children; not even one child does and two children do not. In this way, as a society, we must also prevent our younger generation from getting the bill presented. We must carry it together as a society and not burden our children with it. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the blame lies with the government and not with the students. That is why we cannot agree to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u141	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, this is going down, but I'm gonna stay good. I do that a lot. Thank you to the Minister for answering the first-term questions. My group had seven questions, seven points. You could also say: seven doubts. For the time being, the Minister has not removed many of these doubts. An important doubt concerns the accessibility, the impact of this bill on accessibility and the justification for the need for this bill. When it comes to accessibility, the Minister will always remain with the Policy Measures Monitor and her expectations and beliefs. But the monitor, of course, looks at the effects of current policies, of ongoing measures of existing policies, but not at planned policies and not at planned changes to rules. My group was just looking for research other than this monitor, other research that says something about those effects. May I conclude that the Minister did not indeed investigate, other than that monitor, the effects of the bill? I would like a clear answer to that. The Minister also talks about the lunar sums and the monthly expenses for the earning, trained former student, but not about the total debt. My group is very difficult to imagine that the total debt, not the monthly amounts, does not affect the decision whether to study or not, or whether or not to go for a tough study. Because of the high student debt, do you choose economics rather than econometrics, for example? I would like to hear from the Minister whether she believes that the total student debt affects or does not affect the choices that prospective students make. In short, there are many uncertainties and doubts that have not been removed by the Minister. The effects I have already mentioned on accessibility, for example, remain unclear. Given that this bill will not substantially contribute to the sustainability of public finances in relation to these uncertainties for another 40 years, my group is not convinced of the need to accept this bill at the moment. I would add that, of course, I am waiting for the Minister's answers, but I honestly do not see the chance that the Minister will give other answers. In the latter case, my group will not vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u143	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This last night for many of us is most likely to be a late night. I would like to promote this as little as possible: I can be short and I want to be short. I thank the Minister first of all, of course, for her comprehensive response. We have admired her for her patience, endurance and knowledge of things. Much of what we have heard, and what I have heard at least, was already known. What was known was also repeated with great regularity. Here and there was some renewal and floor. But we had serious concerns. I've shared it extensively in the first term. I can't say that those concerns have completely disappeared. I am going to report my findings back to the group and in that circle I hope to reach a final balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u145	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for coming and her stamina. Yesterday, a number of parties agreed that this amendment only affects the state treasury and affects former students with a student debt significantly and for a long time in the wallet. This does not mean that there is a social loan system, as is claimed. It's not about ten-tenth work, as the government tells us. The impact appears to be much greater in practice. These include the possible higher interest rates in the longer term, the uncertainty of a fixed relationship and the constantly increasing burden on middle-class modal families, to which many former students belong. This unlucky generation of former students with educational debts with modal and middle income, who are generally hardly eligible for income support for which lower incomes are eligible, is disproportionately affected by this change in law, which in the longer term only produces EUR 226 million for the government, but which puts many former students with student debts at a financial and social disadvantage. This government is running away for that responsibility. Speaking of proportionality. There are also a number of parties that, like the Minister, still play down the problems outlined, with or without CBS figures, estimates, complex purchasing power charts and calculation models in hand. It's a chakka story. But the reality is, of course, unbearable. That is what we exchanged in yesterday's debate and today's debate. We have also noted that the political support for the entire loan system is shrinking. Yesterday, during the presentation of the petition, we were confronted with a strong signal from society by concerned stakeholders, students and students. More than 100,000 people signed this petition against increasing student interest rates. All in all, we can speak of a bad bill, which did not land well in society. Therefore, the Minister should balance interests between the benefits of this change of law and the serious social, financial and social consequences for graduates with a study debt, which will be greatly harmed in their future perspective. Mr. Chairman. It is not quite yet, but almost midnight. I therefore wish Mrs Duthler, the Minister and all the political groups much empathy, or if you like: social involvement and wisdom in their final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u147	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. This is a legislative proposal from the coalition agreement. We are used to defending these legislative proposals. We have also done this con amore, not just because it comes out of the coalition agreement. If you look at it through a keyhole, this bill is, of course, unattractive, which applies to a lot of legislative proposals. But if you open the door and look at this bill in its overall context, it's an understandable bill. For my group, this bill is understandable because the government is turning back subsidies or other public expenditure on many Dutch people. These are some promilles of the purchasing power of graduates, for example. But this cabinet also does so to other population groups. For my group this is digestible, because this cabinet then returns that reduction of expenditure to lower charges and investments, such as investment in education. That is why my group thinks this is a good move. At the bottom of the line we see that the graduates, but also all the other Dutch people, are improving in purchasing power, and that is structural. For my group, therefore, it would be a very strange move to remove one component from this whole fabric, in particular when it comes to a component which, however understandable, affects the most highly educated, the most promising and the most deserving in society. Nevertheless, my group fully understands the concerns that students have. We have therefore listened carefully to the answers to the questions we have put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u149	Mrs. Nooren isn't at the microphone yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u150	Then I'll go on, Mr. Chairman. We have listened carefully to the answer given by the Minister, including the choice for the ten-year period and the starting date. We understand the arguments put forward by the Minister, apart from the fact that this law does not, of course, allow us to choose another interest rate measure or other starting date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u151	Now Mrs. Nooren is at the microphone. She has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u152	In my second term, I referred to the explanatory statement. The VVD, like the PvdA, supported the study advance. An important pillar of this was the five-year interest rate. This had to do with the assessment of its consequences, and with the idea that the interest subsidy was appropriate to invest in the quality and accessibility of education. How does the VVD weigh? So it was part of what we agreed on then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u153	The government spends EUR 350 billion on all kinds of subsidies and all kinds of other expenditure. Those expenses were 100 million a day ten years ago higher than we could afford. The successive Cabinets have been working for ten years to close that gap again, including with the help of the Labour Party. The Rutte III cabinet is taking a final step towards putting public finances in order and leaving the economy strongly behind for all members of future generations. This cabinet looks from point zero, a resultant of all previous legislation and all previous subsidy measures, and puts a little bit on top of it. That's annoying for all of us. All Dutch contribute, so the graduates but also other Dutch. The cabinet gives that money back to the Dutch. That is an essential reason for my group to accept this. The cabinet does not eat that money and does not put it in repayment of the state debt, but returns it in the form of reduction of charges and investment. My group believes that this is a good turn, a good measure, because it is aimed at improving purchasing power and stimulating the economy, in order to leave the Netherlands more powerfully to all the members of the new generations. They all benefit from that. They all initially contribute a few promille purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u154	I'm not sure I got an answer, so I'm gonna try it one more time. A part of the study advance was that there was thought about a bearable interest rate measure. That's when we ended up at the five-year rate. That was a conscious choice. This bill deviates from it, but it has already been considered in the other legislative proposal. If, as you say, money had to be added, we could have taken a tax measure. Then all Dutch really contribute. Now, as Mr Schalk said so clearly, people from low and middle incomes bear the cost of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u155	No. A tax measure would have meant an increase in the burden: more money to the government and then more subsidies. That is precisely one of those periods that we had extended ten years ago. That's what we're fixing now. We reduce government spending and return it to lower costs. Of course, this five-year interest rate was a choice during the introduction of this loan system. There was no guarantee at the time that that would never change. This also applies to all other subsidies and all other public expenditure. That guarantee was never given. You can't do that at all. A year ago, the cabinet found a situation in which public spending was still too high. The cabinet's cutting down on the expenses a little bit. For my group, it is essential that it returns that money in lower charges for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u156	Mr. Ganzevoort. I'm interrupting you, Mr. Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u157	I see now that Mrs Sent is spreading her hands widely, but without that it would indeed not be acceptable to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u158	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u159	I heard Mr Bruijn say that he sees in the proposal that one of the building blocks of the study advance system is released here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u160	No. I said that one of the building blocks of the fabric of the coalition agreement would be abandoned if this law were not introduced. That would be illogical for my group, especially since it is the contribution to improving public finances of the most promising, most profitable and highly educated group. A group such as Mr Ganzevoort should be opposed not to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u161	That is a nice attempt, but Mr Bruijn also knows that if you look at the instructions for the regulation differently, you will see that it is not enough to refer to the coalition agreement. I already told him that. My question to Mr Bruijn was whether he would acknowledge that this proposal removes one of the building blocks, namely that five-year interest rate, which is explicitly referred to in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u162	In fact, he is being changed to the ten-year interest rate and that is what the cabinet does about the full width for all Dutch people. A few promilles are handed in to purchasing power. This is returned in lower charges and then the purchasing power increases. That's right. Nor has there ever been any guarantee that they would last forever. If anyone understood that, he misunderstood. This applies to all subsidies. That applies to all laws. In any case, my group has not heard that and with that guarantee my group would never have supported the introduction of such a system. That would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u163	In this way I can hear Mr Bruijn say that this is affecting the system of advance study as agreed a few years ago. Thanks for the clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u164	I didn't mention the study advance. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come back to the concerns of students. We think it's important. We have heard the answers on the starting date and on the interest period well. We're grateful for that. For my group too, then, it is important that the proceeds of the study advance are and will continue to benefit from education. So they go up to 1 billion and then they go down to 620 million in structural terms. We have heard very well that the Minister has confirmed this and that it is not linked to uncertain returns, such as interest income that can rise but also decrease. We would not want to make the education budget dependent on that. It is also important for us to make the housing market more accessible to many thanks to this bill, because that is a great concern for students. It is also important to confirm that the government will continue to pay most of the study costs, even after the introduction of this bill. The minister mentioned the Nibud investigation. This is one of the studies that we consider very important when it comes to the purchasing power of students themselves. The Minister said she was expecting information. Maybe the Minister will also agree to share that information with this Chamber. We are also grateful for the commitment to share the next monitor with us. Then I come to the importance of research other than that monitor, which Mrs Duthler also pointed out. That is what my group shares. My group is also pleased that, in addition to the monitor, there are ResearchNed, RIVM and Nibud investigations, but my group would finally like to ask whether the Minister would like to consult with the CBS if they could correct the migration deficit and the average final figures. That might be another way to look even better in that CBS study on specific groups. My group agrees with Mrs Duthler that this type of research, that specific research, especially in the CBS research, is really insufficient. If the CBS could correct for migration background and average final figure, we will, of course, get a better understanding of those results of that CBS research and thus its accessibility. Mr. Chairman. The majority of my group regards this bill as legitimate, enforceable, enforceable and proportionate. We have also heard from several spokesmen that the profits are low. It's not about money. Then it can never cost much. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u165	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. I see the Minister has the opportunity to respond immediately. I shall now give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u166	Mr. Chairman. We have had a strong debate. I've listened to you very carefully. I am not going to make it longer than I have to; then Mr Van Kesteren can leave this building before noon. Mr. Chairman. I note that this bill does not have much support and support in this Chamber. I will take this statement to the Cabinet tomorrow so that we can discuss it. I will inform you of the outcome of that discussion before the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u167	Thank you. Then we'll wait for that. Maybe we can expect that information on Monday? The Minister nods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-16.u168	The Minister will come with an answer next week. That's what we're waiting for.
