ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the amendment of some laws relating to the standardisation of the legal status of officials in education. Two speakers have come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that there is no longer any question of full room for legislation. Maybe that has something to do with the bill before us. The VVD is in itself positive about this bill, which provides for the exclusion of civil servants in education from the Civil Service Act 2017. These exceptions are good, because they do not result in a double regime for education workers, but only because of the carefully drawn-up collective agreements and sectoral agreements that have been made for education. That is what we are talking about. This tailor-made work has obviously also been seen and appreciated by colleagues from other parties in this Chamber, because the bill was first on the agenda as a hammer piece. Nevertheless, my colleague, Mr Tielen, for whom I am speaking today, has decided to hold this debate. As spokesman for innovation, I can wholeheartedly support this, because the VVD attaches great importance to the independent position of TO2 institutions. TO2 institutions are the knowledge institutes for applied research. This independence is of great value, especially in the case of, for example, politically-administratively sensitive research, such as research into the Stint or research into the 5G network. In order to avoid undue impairment of the value of such investigations, the VVD considers it important to avoid any appearance of bias. Luckily, with the exception of TNO, no TO2 institution is covered by the Officials Act of 2017. Then we're talking about organizations like Deltares, ECN and MARIN. But the VVD also wants to exclude the only TO2 institution which is likely to be covered by the Civil Service Act. Therefore, it has tabled an amendment that also excludes TNO, excluding all TO2 institutions from the Civil Service Act 2017. This ensures an equal regime for all TO2 institutions, and this is due to the sense of the employees in the sector that they are not civil servants and that they are therefore free to conduct independent investigations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr President, Mr Veldman, Minister, I am glad that there are three of us here. A long time ago, my former colleague Fatma Koşer Kaya and her CDA colleague Van Hijum took the initiative to normalise the legal status of civil servants through the Law on Standardisation, with the same right and with a contract of employment between two equal parties. Today, education is dealt with separately, because part of the staff in public education has the status of civil servant. But I've never heard a teacher take an oath upon taking office. So it is a good thing that the government is proposing to normalize all of this. The legislative proposal shows a certain tendency to leave things to the old in education. That starts with continuing to talk about a legal status regime. This is because we are not keeping it equal to the private sector, which talks about employment contracts with terms of employment, agreed by employers and employees as equal parties. They must therefore work together to ensure that they are there. In addition, it is not appropriate to state in the law that the employer, here called the competent authority, must ensure that this legal status regime is implemented. It may seem a little strange to some, but in the rest of society collective agreements have to be established without a law saying that they must be done. This can be preceded by long-term consultations, but the large collective agreements will always come about. A legal mandate to establish a collective agreement is therefore unnecessary. If such a task were to be required, it would have to be addressed to employers and workers and not to employers alone. It is also unnecessary and incorrect to include in the law that employers must pre-determine which associations of workers are eligible for collective agreements and that they must agree in writing with them in advance on how to conduct such consultations. This is also left to those involved in the rest of society without the need for a legal provision. Employers will find out who wants to take part in collective bargaining. This also follows from the principle of freedom of contract. Cao's aren't always easy. And sometimes trade unions fall off and sometimes they come in. We have seen this recently in education with, for example, PO in action. The Minister should not want to be involved. The aim of standardisation was precisely to separate the role of the minister as legislator and grantor from the employership. By considering the provisions on the legal status regime and the organized consultation as valid requirements, the Minister does the opposite without a proper justification. For why should it be left to workers and employers in the rest of society, even in sectors funded by the government, and not in education? That is why I have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you. I look at the Minister and see that she can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr President. It is a good thing that this bill is still being debated in plenary. The legislative proposal we are discussing today puts an end to the differences in the legal status that still exist in the educational sectors between staff from special institutions and staff from public institutions. That's a long-cherished wish. The direct cause for this bill is the Law on Standardisation Law officials, the Wnra, as is well known and as has just been recalled an initiative law of the CDA and D66. This law governs that most civil servants will be subject to the rules of civil labour law, both at individual and collective level. This means, for the education sectors, that the staff of public institutions will be covered by the same labour law as the staff in particular. To be able to introduce this Wnra, technical adaptation legislation is necessary, and that is what we are dealing with today. The cabinet, as well as the previous legislative proposals submitted by the Minister of BZK, chooses to stay as close as possible to the intention of the initiators. That is what we think is appropriate. An initiative law has been adopted requiring implementation legislation. Then it is logical to stay as close as possible to what the initiators intended. So the bill we are discussing today is about standardisation in the education sectors. And when I speak of the educational sectors, I refer to those sectors which have special and public institutions, i.e. primary and secondary education, universities, research institutes and university medical centres. These sectors of education often still have to deal with a hybrid system which has different legal status: civil law for the public institutions on the one hand, and civil labour law for the special employment institutions on the other. All these differences are reflected in the different collective agreements. The great advantage of the present legislative proposal is that there is now a single line for all education sectors. I think that's a profit. There is no question of that anymore. Mr. Chairman. Let me get straight to the point and deal with the two amendments. I would like to add one more thing in general terms. It is good to say here that the social partners in the education sectors have been involved in this adaptation legislation. They endorse this, and the introduction of the Wnra for Education 2020 is also feasible. It is good to point that out. First of all, I would like to discuss the amendment tabled by Mr Veldman and Mrs Tielen on TNO. The amendment aims to exclude TNO from the Civil Service Act 2017. It is good to point out that for TNO there is a different situation than for the education sectors, such as the research institutions of which NWO is a member. TNO does not belong to the educational sectors and is also the responsibility of the department of EZK. With regard to the education sectors, the initiators of the treatment in the First Chamber have allowed the government to exclude all public institutions within the education sectors from the scope of the Officials Act 2017, with the aim of a single labour law regime for the entire education sector. That is exactly what we intend to do with this bill. That is also what the initiators in the Eerste Kamer have explicitly given room for. It was also said in that treatment: yes, that is a logical exception. For TNO, the problem of two adjacent legal regimes did not arise at all. That is not the issue here, and that was really the decisive reason to say that education really needs to be regulated, because it does not make sense to allow two regimes to exist side by side. Therefore, according to the Act, all legal entities established under public law which are not covered by the education sectors are public employer within the meaning of the Officials Act 2017, i.e. TNO. That's the logic of the bill. TNO was also explicitly mentioned by the initiators of the Wnra in the explanatory memorandum as an example of a public legal entity covered by the Civil Service Act 2017. The intention of the cabinet is to follow the initiators as much as possible and that is what it has done here. That is why this has not been taken into account in the adaptation legislation, not even in the adaptation legislation submitted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs here. Your Chamber adopted it on 28 March, and it has now been published in the Official Journal. If there should have been a discussion about TNO somewhere, that should have happened there, because this does not fall within the education sectors. But you want to do it here, so we will. I would like to make a few comments on the substantive arguments put forward for the amendment. The provisions of the Civil Service Act concern only the integrity and concern only the relationship between employer and employee. The integrity provisions in particular therefore have an effect for TNO and they mainly address the relationship between employer and employee. Mr Veldman stressed the importance of TNO's independence, but this bill does not affect independence from the government. Mr Veldman is quite right to say that a TO2 institution should be able to carry out its research independently. That is why we secured that independence in the TNO Act and the TNO Code. That is already the case and therefore this exception is not necessary at all. If that is what you are trying to do, Mr Veldman, then your amendment is completely superfluous. Because that is already well secured in the TNO law. A comparison is also made with the other TO2 institutions, but they have always been private-law institutions. It is therefore logical that they are not covered by the Civil Service Act. Again, the cabinet follows the logic of the initiators of TNO's independence. Mr Veldman says that he is tabling the amendment precisely for this reason, but independence is already guaranteed in the TNO Act and the TNO Code. Mr President, then Mr Van Meenen's amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	Before you go any further, Mr Veldman has a question about his amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	I hear the Minister naming a number of legal reasons and a number of more emotional reasons. She says that TNO's independence is already guaranteed, because this is regulated by law. I have a question for the Minister about the legal reasons. Legally, something may have been designed in a certain way, but that does not mean that the imagery or perception of it matches the way we have legally regulated it. Shouldn't you approach all the TO2 institutions in the same way? That's our theorem. I'm just going to add the emotional reason to it right away, because I can very well imagine what the Minister is saying. I was a civil servant myself for 15 years before I became an entrepreneur on my own. Being an official: there's nothing wrong with that. Yet, just when TNO conducts investigations that are public or politically sensitive, it may be difficult in the same way when the public sees: this is something that belongs to the government. You want to be sure that nothing can stand in the way of the independence of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	Of course, we always contribute to imaging ourselves. It is precisely in order to ensure that independence that this is provided for in the TNO Act and in that TNO Code. That's just well taken care of. It's not a emotional issue. A law is a pretty solid arrangement. There is a lot of execution taking place in ZBOs. I wouldn't want us to question the independence of these Zbos everywhere. If this independence is needed, we will ensure it, as we always do, in the relevant legislation on this ZBO. It should not matter whether or not one is covered by the Civil Service Act. We are following the logic of the initiators here, namely that institutions are governed by public law under these civil servants' laws. That makes sense to me, too. In addition, there is the room for the education sectors to do things differently, but TNO is not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	The answer is clear. The beauty of logic is: it's just which way you're going. I understand the Minister's logic. But the logic of the VVD is that you choose the same regime for all TO2 institutions, so that you ensure that there is a level playing field, that there are equal kinds of rights and obligations and that there is an equal kind of regulation. Hence our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	I can also follow Mr Veldman's reasoning. As a cabinet, we've just made a different assessment. As you can see, in that logic, I do not recommend the amendment. But there's nothing wrong with your logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	Look, at least that's the profit of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	Neither is mine, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	Then we have another amendment, the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes, on the deletion of legal and consultative provisions. In the legislative proposal as we have submitted it, we have chosen to maintain the current legal status and consultation provisions in the legislative proposal. These provisions on working conditions in education were agreed with the social partners at the time of decentralisation. We haven't had that long. We also saw that there was broad support in the field for those provisions. Because the bill actually only changes the employment status for a limited group, for about 30% of the people in education, our idea was not to take on too much. But it is still our intention to stay close to the logic of the initiators. Then you can say: normalize as much as possible and as much as possible join the civil law provisions on freedom of contract and labour law. Then I also follow the logic of your amendment. It's very nice if you understand each other's logic. Sometimes you come to another conclusion. As a minister, I've made a choice to normalize it. The main thrust of the legislative proposal was to put an end to these two regimes in education, but to make as little change as possible. But if you look closely at it, the step you want to take with the amendment is also logical in the context of the new legislation. That's why I'm giving your amendment judgment, Chamber. Mr President, this brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. Mr Veldman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	I would like to ask a question about Mr Van Meenen's amendment. I've seen it, of course. It looks pretty technical. There's nothing wrong with that. Within the logic which the Minister is now giving, I still have the question of how to read this technical adjustment. Does she think of this as a more semantic adjustment? Like: we have not implemented everything in the original bill; we take the core and then it's good. Or are there also legal consequences for the adaptation proposed by Mr Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	It's just a little more than a semantic discussion. In education, the requirement is that employers regulate the legal status and that the parties with which they do so be determined on the front. If you normalize, it fits in with the logic of the bill that you do it as much as possible as in the other sectors, leaving it to sectors to decide how the contract is to be drawn up. In this sense, things are changing, but it fits in with the basic logic of the legislative proposal to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	That's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	If that logic is so clear, I am still curious why the Minister did not take this step himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	That's a fair question. In the space that the initiators gave to change the law so that there will be one regime for the education sectors, we have done so, in fact, from the point of view of not changing too much. If I look at it again, also from the point of view of whether we are following the logic of the initiators, Mr Van Meenen has a point. It would also have made sense for us to have taken this step ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	This brings us to the end of these discussions. I would like to thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	The votes on the two amendments tabled and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday.
