ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam, on behalf of the CDA, for his question to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I warmly welcome. The question is about buying heavily illegal fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	I'll wait for the minister to sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	That's very neat. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This weekend, there was an article in the Gelderlander magazine in all sorts of newspapers that showed how easy it is to buy heavily illegal fireworks. Journalists bought a Cobra 6 quite simply. They also wanted to buy a mortar bomb, also called a shell, but the seller said they were sold out, because it wasn't normally busy. Marriage reported last week that the police have seized a mere 35,000 kilos of illegal fireworks, mostly heavy explosive fireworks bombs. We all know that when such a shell or Cobra is ejected, bystanders, policemen, firefighters, everyone in the area are in great danger, and it is not only a danger of hearing damage, because these kinds of bombs go through protective clothing, through shields and helmets of ME's and even through car doors, if it is very disappointing. It's dangerous stuff. We talk about fireworks regularly in this room. We then differ on certain points, but I thought there was a Chamber-wide agreement that this heavy illegal fireworks should be combated. I read in an investigation in the newspaper that eight out of ten Dutch people also think that heavy illegal fireworks should be dealt with hard. But according to the D.A.'s guidelines, you're going to get a community service; that's the starting point that the D.A. is going for. If you have up to about a hundred of those things in your pocket, popularly said, there will be no jail time, but a community service. If you have one gun in your hand, the demand has been in prison for six months. It's just a question of whether a firearm is really much more dangerous than one of those bombs that explodes all over the place. That is why my question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to amend the Public Prosecutor's Criminal Procedure Directive in the short term. It doesn't take a law change. That's just something that can be arranged in the official ranks. I believe that a fireworks terrorist on New Year's Eve doesn't have to sit behind his front door but behind the cell door.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister for Justice and Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by stating that it is serious that we see so much illegal fireworks in our country. At the moment, by the way, the firing of any kind of fireworks is prohibited, and therefore illegal. The perpetrators of trafficking in the illegal heavy fireworks and the lighters must be severely punished. The police are also committed to picking up and taking on these people. Indeed, 38 000 kilos of illegal fireworks have been seized until the end of November. I think we need to realise that the maximum effort by the police that is currently taking place still does not lead to this form of crime disappearing altogether. At the moment, the Public Prosecutor's Office is committed to bringing proceedings as soon as possible, that cases such as the threat and abuse of emergency workers are subject to double penalty and that the damage is recovered from the defendant. In addition, the Office does indeed apply a schedule of the quantities found in order to require penalties in respect of the property. From 41 of the above mentioned types of fireworks, in addition to the community service of 200 hours, there is a one-month probationary period. Well, that's the way it's gonna go. In the case of repeated incidents, a requirement of between three and six months is unconditional even in the case of a single piece of fireworks. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say straight away that I am prepared to talk to the Public Prosecutor about how they see this themselves in the run-up to the turn of the year. That was actually my intention, but I would like to emphasise it again here. It should be borne in mind that on 15 December this year the law will enter into force which will severely penalise the obstruction and harassment of aid workers. It is also possible for the first time this year to issue a total ban on fireworks for each municipality. It's already possible. This will, of course, also focus on a number of other matters relating to prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister wants to talk to the prosecutor to hear what they think about it, but I would like to hear a little more of a commitment. If, as a directive, there is community service on it and you come to the judge commissioner, he says: yes, there may well be community service in court, so I am not going to put that gentleman in jail now pending New Year's Eve. I don't think people who have this kind of dangerous stuff in their pockets should be in our New Year's Eve celebration. In addition, for this kind of fireworks adepts, if I may say it neutral, the New Year's night is often the high mass of the whole year. So I really think it's very important that these people know that if they go out with that stuff today or tomorrow and get caught, they just miss that New Year's Eve just because they have that stuff in their pocket. All our policies and all the discussions we have are about fireworks that you can have New Year's Eve. This is about serious illegal fireworks. Two or three of those things, that's what pop-cracking is about. It's dangerous stuff. I would really like to ask the Minister, perhaps with a little more certainty as we know him, to enter into the discussion with the Public Prosecutor. I dare say that if we do not fight this type of fireworks, the feeling in the Chamber will be that we do not really support our aid workers. That's the point I want to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	For the sake of time too, I have not yet mentioned that there are, of course, resources such as land bans, reporting obligations and so on which people on New Year's Eve cannot be where they would like to be when it comes to fireworks and, in particular, illegal fireworks. That's one. Secondly, there is not only the bill that penalises the obstruction of aid workers more severely, but also Mr Dekker and I are currently working on a public service ban on a number of issues, including violence and aggression against aid workers. I've agreed to have a meeting with the state's attorney's office. That's what I'm gonna do. But in our rule of law, as a minister, I should not go into the ultimately very well-balanced prosecution policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Finally, I would like to say that in recent years the Public Prosecutor has shown very clearly that he is pursuing a strict policy. Last but not least, in the first few months of next year, a bill on the story of the costs of, among other things, removing and defuseing illegal fireworks will come into consultation. This will certainly lead to a huge cost for people engaged in this type of criminal activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes, Chairman, finally. I am, of course, enthusiastic about all the measures involved, but this is just about the heart of the problem. At the heart of the problem is that despite all these measures there is a small number of people in the Netherlands who really keep going on with these heavy illegal fireworks. The police are taking care of the business. I'm happy about that, too. It is time that we also made the individual user of this fireworks responsible, addressed and directly addressed. That's where my plea focuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	Again, in the event of recidivism... I can read the whole state, but even one of them already has a three to six-month sentence. The people that Mr van Dam is talking about, the people who simply continue to engage in this anti-social behaviour, are getting a big head start on prison time. "A big bow" is a criminal expression in case you're a long way behind bars.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	I get the feeling that we're taking far too weak measures anyway. When I was a kid, fireworks were a joke. There was also much less heavy fireworks. Now we see fireworks being used against aid workers. We've seen that it's really causing a lot of damage. We have seen that help dogs can be traumatized by it. All irreparable things. When will we finally go so far as to dare say that only ornamental fireworks can be cut off by municipalities and that we can stop all this nonsense? It gets worse every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	In June 2018 your Chamber forgave me for not knowing the exact day at the same time that I did not want a total ban on fireworks, but that as a cabinet we had to make it possible for a total ban on fireworks to be imposed on each municipality. The current Minister for the Environment and Living and I have followed this very clearly. It is now also possible. At least I know that this was declared in Apeldoorn. I've explained the following in your room before. If you see the map of the Netherlands, there are certain areas where irresponsible antisocial behavior is indeed on the agenda of New Year's Eve, not only fireworks but also other things. We also see whole parts of the map where that is not the issue. I am not a sociologist, Mr Krol does not know me as such, so I cannot explain that. I can only say that, in that respect, a ban per municipality does justice the most, if that is not tautology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the PvdD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. The need to tackle illegal fireworks is obvious. That's what the PvdD thinks. That's what the Minister thinks. But most victims are not caused by illegal fireworks, but by legal fireworks. Read the reports. Three-quarters of the cases in the E.R. are due to just legal fireworks. If you just focus on that one quarter, you're blind to three-quarters of the cases. Why does the Minister focus only on illegal fireworks and ignores three-quarters of the victims, namely victims by legal fireworks? Shouldn't he be sitting on that much more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	I am indeed the Minister of Justice and Security. I need to make sure there's no criminal activity. Then it's about trading and setting off illegal fireworks, among other things. As far as the legal fireworks are concerned, I have just explained that, after a very good debate with the Chamber last year, we are going to make that ban possible per municipality. So it is done, and so it is done. That is what I can justify. As far as illegal fireworks are concerned, you can be assured that I am very committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	The municipalities themselves and the police say: such a municipal fireworks ban does not help enough, it must be nationwide. Let me give a very concrete example. This morning in the Algemeen Dagblad was the disgusting story that a cat was blown up with fireworks. The cat died. So these are the consequences of the ordinary, normal ban on fireworks. The minister said fireworks that you're gonna fire before December 31st is illegal, but it's fireworks that are normally used. This falls under the category of legal fireworks, at the wrong time. With those normal, legal fireworks, you can do this kind of horrible thing. Does the Minister agree with me that this should also be addressed? We're talking about weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	I do not know this specific case, I confess. But anyone who threatens the lives of humans or animals in New Year's Eve, whether with allowed or illegal fireworks, is criminally prosecutable. We need to be very clear about that. It is not allowed to cast off any fireworks at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
