ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u1	We shall proceed immediately with a debate with the same minister, namely on monitoring and securing the functioning of the system. This is an interesting debate, which I would like to take my time for. I do not want to say 'two interruptions', but I want us to be able to have the debate. However, I suggest that we do the interruptions in half. I should first like to give the floor to Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u2	I see a small change in the civil servant's lodge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u3	Oh, but you can just get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. In the shadow of yesterday's debate, we are talking tonight about monitoring and securing the system. The system was established after the murder of Pim Fortuyn and should provide protection for all citizens who are in critical trouble. Mr. Chairman. We all know that the system is under serious pressure. The service providing personal security is running overtime. The number of threats is increasing, not only with regard to mayors and journalists, but also with regard to "ordinary people." It's gonna go horribly wrong. We can name the names. Saga Backman, 2013 in Den Bosch. Juliette Bouhof, 2014 in Eindhoven. Linda van der Giesen, 2015 in Waalwijk. Also Laura Korsman, 2018 in Utrecht. Recently 16-year-old Humeyra in Rotterdam. Maybe there was a case in Mijdrecht this week; we don't know that yet. I would like to express my condolences to the next of kin in all these cases. Mr. Chairman. With thousands of cases of domestic violence a year, I do not want to give the impression that the government should be able to guarantee that this kind of thing will never happen again, but I should like to ask about the efforts made by the government police, the prosecutor, the centres against domestic violence and others to prevent this. We owe this to the victims, but also to ourselves, because we ourselves can be victims. The Minister wrote that, following the case of Humeyra, the inspection carried out an investigation into the situation: the protocols were complied with, the lessons of the Unicorn Committee were applied and so on. But would it not be wise, in a broader sense, to periodically audit the awareness and application of the protocols on stalkers and perpetrators of domestic violence? Not only if it's gone wrong, not only because of one case, but periodic maintenance on such a sensitive process. I'd like a reaction to that. Another point. On 1 January 2017, Article 51aa Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force. That article and the implementing rules give the prosecution and the police an active task to assess measures regarding the specific protection needs of victims: the so-called individual assessment. Is this being applied? How is this applied? Is this included in the inspection investigation? Does this provision also apply to family members, for example the family members of the key witness who was shot in Amsterdam-Noord? That case was the real reason for this debate. How does that obligation of Article 51aa relate to the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber in December concerning the monitoring and protection of the system? In that letter he writes: "The undisturbed functioning of a person within a situation of threat and risk is facilitated if this is in the interest of the democratic legal order or in the interest of values such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press. This also applies to persons who, from their duties, oppose organised crime and are therefore threatened (...)." Named directors and prosecutors, journalists. Of course, that's all very important. But what does this sentence mean for the key witness' family? And what does this mean for girls like Humeyra? Does a key witness contribute to the democratic rule of law? What does it mean that the government can no longer guarantee that these people can function undisturbed? Do you have to move to another city, another country? Is the government gonna help you with that? Is that real for ordinary citizens? Our country is relatively small and before you know it, you'll be back in the picture. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. One final question. In the past 1% of the police budget could be spent on guarding and securing. If the corps were above that 1%, they could rely on a settlement at the Ministry of the Interior or Justice. With the police redeploy, that arrangement has expired. We all know that the need for security and security has increased considerably. That's competing with other police work. We cannot see how much money is currently being spent on this subject in the budget. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can make that clear in future budgets and in the forthcoming annual report. I am not, of course, concerned with understanding the specific issues that the money has been spent on, but with insight into the main points, so that we can have that debate here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you. Mr Kuzu has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u6	A proper analysis by Mr Van Dam of the CDA concerning the fact that more and more ordinary people are faced with threats and possibly should be eligible for the system we are discussing today. What solutions does the CDA have? I share the analysis thoroughly, but what is the CDA's solution direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u7	Look, there are several steps in the system. It already begins, for example, where I also refer to it with an individual assessment of the risks in a case. Not every case immediately requires the most serious measures, but I am very curious whether in the cases at hand, that individual assessment has been discussed. Have people been helped to increase their own safety? Because that's how the system works. I also think it is very important to look at what the Unicorn Commission has found, whether the various services are working together to take these measures. The solutions I have are a little bit at the end. I believe that many of the choices that are now being made are also made under the capacity pressure. That is where we, as the Chamber, come to see if there are any shifts, or whether there are choices to be made. I'm actually missing that opportunity right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u8	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u9	I think we'll soon have the Spring Note for that. When it comes to capacity, as a Chamber, we have the right to budget. If a coalition party indicates that there needs to be more capacity, that is of course very nice. The Minister indicated in his letter of 20 December 2018 that, in terms of clarifying the scope and duty of care of the government, there is a very concrete discussion about what is happening in practice. Because in practice, it means that that personal security capacity is right to say that it is at the end of the whole system, and that it is only reserved for the protection of persons exercising a function in the interests of the democratic rule of law or values such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press. I think that's important, but I'm not surprised to hear that the CDA says: as far as we're concerned, there's room there; in practice, should that also mean that personal security becomes available to the ordinary people who are dealing with threats?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr Kuzu started his reaction by saying that we want capacity expansion. Capacity expansion is always nice, but don't slide on my plate that I want to. I understand that you do, but I'll make the point anyway. I just think that we have the task of checking whether the right priorities are being set. My question to the Minister is to make that possible. As far as personal security is concerned, we share the same question. That is exactly the question I would like to ask the Minister. And I want to be very sober in that, too. It is quite impossible, I think, because it is tens of thousands of cases a year, to think that there can be a structural use of personal security capacity there. That is without prejudice, if you read this letter very literally, that it would never be possible in a manner of speaking. I find that too harsh, and I would like to hear an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Helder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group chairman, I would like to begin by congratulating the people of the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service, the DKDB. They protect people every day at risk for their own lives who would otherwise be unable to do their jobs because of threats. Monitoring and securing the system is the whole set of regulations dealing with the prevention of attacks on persons, objects and services. Witness protection applies to a specific group of persons, namely those who cooperate in the detection and prosecution of criminal offences. The people and resources needed to implement and implement security measures are, by definition, scarce. Developments in serious, organised crime have their impact on the system and on the protection of witnesses. Both come under increasing pressure. This was the reason why the Steering Committee, on behalf of the Minister, was monitoring and securing the possibility of greater differentiation in security concepts and in the principles currently in force. To execute the current security orders, the employees of the DKDB are asked to do the utmost. At the time of 22 November last year there were 73 vacancies on a total formation of 392 fte. My question to the Minister is: what is the latest state of affairs? It is, of course, crucial that the DKDB is at its full strength as soon as possible. Witness protection is necessary to deal with organised crime. Without star witnesses, you'll never get to the big boys, but only to the suckers... excuse for the expression... in the lowest order. But also endangered persons deserve protection, because otherwise they will no longer be able to do their jobs, or be so threatened that they will no longer be able to live their daily lives. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I cannot open a look at people and I do not want to interfere with decisions of the workplace, but I expect the Minister to do more than what he has written, namely'string steering on schedules'. He also writes that all possible means are deployed. Does that also mean that the wallet is drawn? Looking at the near past, is there enough done to keep the current employees? A specific group of people, which is unfortunately increasing, are the threatened journalists. In June last year, the Minister announced that there is no reason to set up a team of threatened journalists. This reaction dates from before the attack with a rocket launcher at the editors of Panorama and the attack with a car on the editors of De Telegraaf, in one week time. Telegraph journalist John van den Heuvel and Parooljournalist Paul Vugts were given police protection and could hardly or no longer do their work properly. These are non-Dutch situations and it is also totally unacceptable. Freedom of the press is under a lot of pressure here. A report by the Dutch Association of Journalists mentioned a trend. Journalists are increasingly threatened and thwarted. That trend needs to be broken. There is, of course, a difference between difficulties in filming in a particular neighborhood, which, of course, should not happen either, and it is threatened with death. At the heart of the matter is that self-censorship and avoidance of behaviour are lurking, and that cannot be done. No joke on April 1, 2008 The Press hotline started safely. That is a start, but as far as I am concerned, the Minister must also come up with a sound plan of action, because a hotline and a steering committee are well-meant, but not enough against the situation I mentioned earlier. Is the Minister prepared to do this? If so, what will he do? And then I always ask: at what time? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. D66 is shocked by the number of threats to people who work in different ways for the democratic rule of law. Recently, we had a debate here about threatened mayors. It is unacceptable that ministers have become targets, but any other resident of the Netherlands can also be victims of liquidation violence or violence by ex-partners. The government has a duty of care for every resident and in that the system plays an important role in monitoring and securing. But monitoring and securing the system is complex. There are many different organisations involved. In addition to sufficient capacity, it is also important that we ensure the quality of the execution, as well as the flexibility. However, the question is whether these conditions are not under pressure. D66 is concerned about the capacity of the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service, a job where you have to be constantly sharp, and that is difficult. With a high workload, this is extremely heavy. So extra human strength is needed. Since, for example, public and religious institutions also need to be protected, the demand is: is that capacity growing and sufficiently in line with demand? The Minister indeed reported that there were 79 vacancies in June. Now there's 73 more. It was just cited. That's why I'm asking the Minister why this isn't working out. What can the Minister do to ensure that capacity is in order as quickly as possible? Mr. Chairman. Organised crime in the Netherlands hardens. This calls for a proactive system, for good anticipation and information-driven work. But is the system at present sufficiently consistent with these rapid developments in crime? There are many international instruments, programmes and best practices for witness protection. These have also been invested in Europol. D66 considers it desirable that the steering committee set up by the Minister to evaluate that system should also look at good practices abroad. There is, after all, enough, and perhaps a lot, to learn from each other. Does he want to commit to this? Mr. Chairman. There are people who are right to worry about their security trajectory. Think of the tragic death of the Rotterdam girl Humeyra. She was stalked by her ex and reported it to the police. Also think of the sad, violent death of a 45-year-old woman in Mijdrecht yesterday. 25% of all women in the Netherlands have been stalked. This percentage is higher than the European average. For the police, it must be clear where the boundary lies between normal, nuisance or criminal acts. The police must be able to switch quickly if necessary. I ask the Minister: is the police competent enough on this point? Can the police get out of the way with the work instruction or should police training in the area of stalking be improved? What lessons do the responsible organisations draw from these terrible events? Finally, Mr President. A group I would like to mention explicitly are the journalists. They too are subject to threats. This week, the PersSecurely Initiative was launched, a platform where journalists can report threats. It is good that it is there now, but it is also serious that it is necessary. After all, journalists are proclamators of free speech. Essential in our democracy. Six months ago he made an appointment with the Dutch Association of Journalists, the Public Prosecutor and the police to deal with violence and threats against journalists. My question to you, Minister, is whether results are already visible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I notice that many colleagues are concerned about the same issues. It is good to have such an agreement with each other and it is, of course, also worrying. And it is up to the Minister to really do something with these concerns. Mr. Chairman. Last year, 40 women were killed. The unsub was always a familiar one. It was usually a partner or an ex-partner. It was women who were in danger because they rejected someone or because they didn't behave like the family wanted. According to Bureau Beke, domestic violence causes more deaths than violence in the criminal circuit. To what extent is the system really well equipped to protect and secure this? Others asked for it, too. How many men and how many women are now protected by this system? I am not asking because I want to classify everything along those lines, but because I am wondering whether, in particular, signals from women are being sufficiently picked up. In the cases of the women who were murdered last year, to what extent has the police been called upon to protect us all? I would like a reflection from the Minister on that. In December, Humeyra was killed. Humeyra was a 16-year-old student who was stalked and felt threatened. The investigation into the trade is still ongoing. And that is good, because we need to know whether we have dropped and whether sufficient attention has been paid to the proper assessment of her situation. But I have already asked for a broader investigation, an investigation into the similarities: why have we not been able to protect Sarah, Bianca and the others? The investigation report TweeSteden described that there was a focus on criminal proceedings and that less attention was paid to the needs of the person concerned, the principal. How's that now? Is there any improvement in that? In the system, people's own responsibility comes first. They must, first and foremost, ensure their safety, ensure proper locks and look around. But how far does that go? Replacement safe housing, bulletproof vests, bulletproof cars: who decides what the limit of your own responsibility is? And what about the capacity and ability of the system to protect people? Last year, 79 out of 392 vacancies were open, or 20%. Now it's not much less. Yet there are only a limited number of holes, because people work hard, make long days themselves and stay alert. They bring it up again and again at the expense of their own health, but that is of course not a serious solution. To what extent is the amount of FTE that formally stands for this even if you fill in the vacancies sufficient at this time, with this huge amount of threats? It is important that there is sufficient strength to prevent a chilling effect and to prevent journalists from doing their work, that opinion-formers cannot express themselves, that politicians like Geert Wilders cannot express themselves and that witnesses do not dare go to justice. So it is really crucial that that is really at good strength. And there must also be sufficient resources. I remember in 2017 Astrid Holleeder alarmed about the fact that the alarm systems and the emergency phones that were given to her were not always doing well. Are all these things in order now? Which brings me to my final point, Mr. Chairman. The system was established in 2003, as Mr Van Dam said. Since then, time has passed and society has changed. Threats, for example towards journalists, have also increased. Isn't it time for an evaluation? Does it still meet the demands that we would now make on this system? So, regardless of the demand for capacity - what I think is a very relevant question - we should also look at whether it is not time for an evaluation and whether it, as it is now decorated, is entirely adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mayors, prosecutors, journalists, but also witnesses, are unfortunately regularly threatened from the underworld. Criminals have something to fear from them. But these people, who stick their necks out because they publish about criminals, they tackle them or testify against them, deserve proper and proper protection. We cannot give in to intimidation and violence. Anyone threatened must be able to rely on the protection of the government. But can you really do that? Can people already trust the government to be there for them when they need them? The Minister has written all kinds of letters and answered parliamentary questions about monitoring and securing systems and witness protection, and he is working with a steering committee, but our concerns are no less. The threat from organised crime is high and it is not expected that these threats will be reduced in the coming years. On the contrary, organised crime seems to harden. More and more people need more and more intensive security. Of course, we need to tackle this problem especially at the source, and those are the criminals who are responsible for these threats. That means more investment in detectives, the SP has just tabled a motion for that too, so that it can be dealt with and the criminals can be dealt with. But for now, we need to get our act together with the DKDB, the Department of Royal and Diplomatic Security. The workload is already enormous, the grids are already very under pressure, but the capacity problems should not cause dangerous situations. There is an approved motion of the SP and the PvdA that ordered the government to fill in the open vacancies as soon as possible. The figures have already been mentioned. At first, there were 79 vacancies. Every effort would be made to resolve the deficits as quickly as possible. Six months later we hear that there are still 73 vacancies at 392 fte. That's still over 18%. Only six people in six months. That's very worrying, isn't it? When does the Minister think the deficits will be resolved? The Minister writes about variation in security concepts and making sharper choices, reducing the capacity of the services available. But what exactly does it say here? I think this is cryptic. What's this supposed to mean? What is going to change here in a very concrete way? Is safety guaranteed permanently? Some things are very poignant. I can't go into the details, but I know a case where everything went wrong. Two people are asked by the police to press charges and testify against serious criminals. Those people are forced into the security system. Their lives turn upside down: leaving home and fireplace, and no more contacts. Their lives are in ruins, and they didn't ask for them. And then everything has to be arranged: accommodation, medical care, mail and benefits. Then you really depend on justice for everything. But who keeps an eye on their interests, especially when things don't go well? Should people not be reminded of their rights and legal aid from the very beginning in order to monitor their interests? And if the protection of the system ends, what about aftercare? Because this will ruin lives if we don't do it right. These people are in a lot of damage right now. That is not acceptable, because these people have fulfilled their civic duty. How is that possible? And how do we do it better in the future? Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the special position of threatened journalists. The position of journalists is special in our democratic rule of law. Freedom of the press is essential, but that freedom is under pressure. Journalists have to work all too often in a threatening climate. Threats are becoming more frequent and increasingly intense. Look at them. They've already been named "John van den Heuvel" and "Paul Vugts." Highly secure and has been living at a protected address for months, because Paul Vugts has been given a murder order from the criminal circuit. They are brave people who do not yield to intimidation and threats. We should be grateful for that. However, in the round table that we had on this subject, it was pointed out that the DKDB lack of capacity. It was said: "You shouldn't think about another threatened journalist coming in. Can the service handle that?" That was a serious question in the round table. In fact, journalists carry out a public task. Is the protection of journalists now appropriate, such as in the Safe Public Task programme and the associated protection and measures? I'd like a response to that. And I too would like to conclude with a great compliment to all those people that day in, day out for our safety: the people of the police and the people of the DKDB, who are doing this very important work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u19	I put a question to Mr Van Nispen, but I might as well have asked one of his predecessors. I hear him say a lot about the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service. It almost sounds as if this service is the only one that gives substance to the system's monitoring and security, and to the measures. But does Mr Van Nispen agree with me that this is really only a very important part of the whole system? Is it not true that the system is being implemented in all kinds of regions and units? Or does he confine himself to one service in the application of the system? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u20	In preparing this debate, I have indeed focused on this service, which protects journalists, politicians, mayors, prosecutors and witnesses. But Mr Van Dam is absolutely right: if you look at the wider system......................................................................................................................................................................................... I am thinking, among other things, of the people who are threatened in situations of domestic violence. That has also been pointed out. It is perfectly right that you should ask that question, but those questions have already been asked to the Minister. I'd like to join that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u22	I do not think it can be said often enough that on behalf of DENK I would like to thank all those men and women who are committed to the safety of society and to the protection of individuals. They all deserve individual appreciation. My contribution is aimed at questioning the system and the system, and certainly not at those who are committed to security. For the system and the system, the wisdom of the non-boreal Chinese philosopher Confucius is: "To have mistakes and not to improve them is to have mistakes." Mr. Chairman. There is a far-reaching horror in the Netherlands, which means that there is an increasing sense of insecurity among whole groups: local and national political ministers, mayors, journalists, mosque-goers, keywitnesses and other women victims of insane vindictive exes. It is the core task of the government to ensure the safety of people. Too often, however, the feeling that the government is failing to guarantee that security prevails. That is a serious matter, and it encourages cynicism. Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Legal Protection admitted yesterday during the emotional debate on Anne Faber, and I quote him: "The government has failed to protect society." Let that work on you, a government that says we weren't there for you. Whether it is about the murder of Anne Faber, Raja Daarsma or 16-year-old Humeyra, the reaction of the government and the reflex of politics are extremely predictable: collectively we speak with the greatest words shame of the matter and say that it should never have happened and that the perpetrators should be severely punished. Then there is either deep research written out or a committee set up. A period of at least a year goes by, which makes the seriousness of the matter less memorable. Then there will be a research report, which often disappears into a drawer. In an exceptional case, it comes to a debate here in the Chamber. Members of parliament then repeat that it is a disgrace and the governor concludes that he wants to act instead of resigning. And then there's the order of the day. This pavlov reaction strengthens the feeling of the Haage puppetry, of professional politicians who protect their minister for a future job and a position, of the politics that is not there for the people, but for themselves. The result? Confidence in politics continues to crumble and people are becoming increasingly cynical and cynical about politics. Mr. Chairman. No one will dare say that there are no mistakes or shortcomings, but does this Minister dare to correct these mistakes? As far as we are concerned, the Minister must work on three points. Point one. A quarter of the people who have to protect us only exist on paper; at least they are vacancies. Several measures have been taken to fill that deficit. When does the Minister expect results and when does he expect the service to be at full strength? Does he dare to set himself a deadline? Point two. The letter of 20 December 2018 talks about three improvements to make the system work properly. One concerns the scope and clarification of the government's mission of care. I wonder what the Minister means by that. My group also wonders whether the scope outlined in that letter is sufficient. In practice, the clarification is that personal security is reserved only for persons performing their duties in the interests of protecting the democratic legal order or values such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press. My question is: does the Minister remain in this, or is it necessary to broaden the scope? Point three. If we want to broaden the scope, is the capacity of 392 fte sufficient? Because we are already talking about a scarce capacity by definition. Is the Minister prepared to draw the wallet to expand capacity? If not, why not? Mr President, concluding. I would like to focus today on two points, namely the local officials and the scope of personal security, also in connection with the tragic murder of Humeyra. I would like to call on the Minister to bear in mind Confucius' words: to have mistakes and not to correct them, that is to have mistakes. I hope we can correct mistakes today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you. Mr Van Dam has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u24	Can I ask Mr Kuzu what those mistakes are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u25	We've seen it lately. I have just given an example of the statements made by the Minister for Legal Protection in the terrible case of Anne Faber. I gave a quote from the Minister for Legal Protection: the government has failed to protect society. Of course, each case is different, but those were rather general words and we see it. You just mentioned a number of names. Constantly we ask ourselves: could we have prevented this? If we could have avoided things, we should have the courage to admit it, and we should take measures to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u26	I'm asking for this. There are tens of thousands of cases a year. I think Mrs Buitenweg has just said how many women are murdered every year. If we see it every time someone is killed, as a mistake by the Minister and therefore also as a mistake by the police and all those involved, if that is what you are saying here, then I think that is quite a mistake. Because that would create an obligation which, I think, is very essential. If we wanted that with each other, we would live in a completely different society than we can reasonably say we are living now. That's why I'm asking that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u27	That's a fair question. Mr Van Dam should not put words in my mouth, because I did not say that. If I specifically take the case of Humeyra, you can ask yourself a few questions that are also relevant to a lot of other things. Those are questions like: how could it be that the killer could have walked free while he was known to the police when he was known to be on probation while there was a report filed by Humeyra himself, against that killer? If we all take that into account, I am not talking about thousands of cases where exactly the same is the case. However, we must ask ourselves whether the scope we are talking about at the moment, where we are only talking about a particular person, Mr Wilders; rightly so, the mayor of Haarlem is sufficient. I think that we can take that scope more broadly and see how we can fill it out more broadly than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u28	We'd do it in half. Very briefly, then!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u29	Locking up. I'm making the point because the investigation is still ongoing in the Humeyra case. If you say that mistakes have been made, and I hear Mr Kuzu say that a little bit, then I think we should be very careful about that. The investigation is ongoing. We don't know. We must be careful not to give the impression here that we can protect everyone in this country in this way. I really think that is a very important notion for this debate to put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u30	I also say: it is right, the investigation is still ongoing. But I have also indicated in my contribution that more and more people are becoming more cynical about the fact that every time such a tragic event occurs there is actually a pavlov reaction, where we say: there is a need for research. Yeah, that research setup needs to be there before the summer. We expect that investigation to be completed sometime in a year. And then we see those results, shocking results. It's not the first time something like this has happened. I think we should get rid of that cynicism sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u31	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Laan-Selschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr. Chairman. The central task of the government is to protect its inhabitants as effectively as possible, especially when they themselves are unable to resist the threat and the associated risk. I believe, and I am sure that the Chamber shares this view, that people who are so seriously threatened should be protected at all times. This applies to politicians in this house, who use freedom of expression, to people stalked or threatened by their ex, but also to mayors who fight hard against organised crime, members of the Royal House and journalists, the guardians of the free word, as recalled by colleague Helder and others. Mr. Chairman. We usually talk about a subject in this house if something went wrong. If anything goes wrong in the system, then something went very well. It is difficult to talk about the errors of the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service, because we also know that all men and women who work for this service are doing so at risk for their own lives. They are on the front line by protecting another's life. That goes well, so to speak, in 99.9% of the cases. That is what we can only praise for. Mistakes must be repaired and prevented. I was therefore pleased to receive the December 2018 letter, which makes it clear that an in-depth analysis has taken place to achieve effective and efficient security. Precision and care are necessary here, especially since there is almost always customisation. What is striking, however, is the large number of vacancies at the DKDB. Colleagues have already referred to it. It's 73.21 fte, to be exact. I can imagine that insufficient occupation affects the quality of the service. Can the Minister confirm this, or rather disprove it? The Minister writes that in the first months of 2019 police staff will be transferred to the DKDB. Those first few months are over now. How's it going in the meantime? As I mentioned earlier, precision and care are necessary, especially in the interests of the person who needs to be protected. It's just that when everyone's talking about it, nobody's going to be about it anymore. The Minister's letter talks about a scaling-up structure, but it is unclear who makes the choice of scaling-up. My question is therefore who is explicitly responsible for the monitoring and security system. The police, the NCTV, the D.A. and the Royal Marechaussee are strongly working together. Who's in charge? How can we guarantee that there will be no gaps in the personal security communication process? In other words: how do we create check, check, double check in the system? We read that the priority of personal security comes mainly from persons threatened by the criminal circuit. With the rising undermining crime, we understand this, as practice has shown that the threats in that situation are such that they often become a reality. I would also like to know about those who do not receive threats from the criminal circuit, but people who, for example, are threatened by ex-partners. As an example, I mention the terrible situation of the 16-year-old student from beautiful Rotterdam and the terrible event last night in Mijdrecht. We are all waiting for the inspections to be carried out. But what happened in the meantime? Here, too, the question: when and at what rate will the scaling-up structure be stepped up? I'd rather be one too many, as far as we're concerned, than one too few. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress once again that we are very grateful to the people behind the DKDB, the people who protect other people when necessary. It's not just a job. We need to realize that. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you very much. Before the Minister begins answering the questions, I shall suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u34	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mr. Chairman. Let me start from the outset by saying that I appreciate the respectful words that Members have said for the people who are doing the work: those who have that heavy and risky profession of guarding and securing, which we are talking about today. In doing so, I would like to point out that the monitoring and security system that surrounds it is an important subject for me. It concerns the security and protection of persons, including those who contribute to the democratic rule of law and values such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press. People's threats must not undermine the fundamentals of society by being unable or unwilling to carry out their duties. We all know by now the examples of politicians, including some members of your Chamber, mayors, journalists, but also other officials who need to be heavily protected because of serious threats against them. I find that unacceptable. I find it unacceptable that our society has developed this way over the last 20 years. We saw the murder of an innocent relative of a key witness last year. We also saw the violent death of a sixteen-year-old student from Rotterdam. But also the shocking death, the night before yesterday, of a 45-year-old woman from Mijdrecht. It's all shocking and horrible. At the request of your Chamber, I sent a letter on that last issue today, responding to that event. It is very good that, in addition to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is investigating this case, the inspection of my ministry also examines the method of stalking and the exchange of information between involved partners. I myself also find the figure of 40 women killed in the last year to be unimaginable. All these events indicate that threats occur in every social spectrum. Too soon and too often, serious threats are voiced and sometimes, unfortunately, implemented. It has therefore been analysed what is needed to protect individuals from serious forms of violence and threats in the future, for example from organised crime. My line is that all people have a supplementary responsibility and take responsibility for their protection when they cannot take care of it themselves because of the threat and the risk. Safety comes first. A professional consideration is made as to what is needed to remove the threat or to shape the security. I also emphasised this in my letter from last December. It's about customization. When there is an interest in democracy, national security and/or the functioning of public administration and the rule of law, security is at the heart of the most undisturbed operation possible. This applies to politicians, for example, but also to directors, mayors, journalists and prosecutors. If the security situation, including the environment, allows it, security will be designed in such a way that they can continue to exercise their profession. In addition, I have identified three points from the analysis. Firstly, that the arrangements and regulations in the systems monitor and secure and provide witness protection in itself sufficient basis for the protection of individuals. Secondly, some improvements are needed to keep these systems future-proof. Some of these improvements have been made and some of them require the necessary care and work. In my letter at the end of last year, I also said that I will be presenting a report in autumn 2019 on the progress of the steering group I mentioned. More opportunities are being created to protect people. For example, more applicable security concepts are needed as an alternative to personal security. And in order to respond more quickly, we have set up opportunities for faster cooperation for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police in the event of complex and/or regionally-crossing surveillance and security matters. Thirdly, capacity. The people and resources needed to implement and implement security measures are, by definition, scarce. It requires continuous and careful consideration by the public authorities to implement measures in a proportionate and efficient manner. This is the subject of regular consultations between the authorities, and I have already said something about this to Mrs Laan de NCTV, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Royal Marechaussee. This provides a timely view of the current and possibly increased pressure on capacity. Furthermore, police efforts are aimed at filling the vacancies with the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service. The measures I mentioned, the first, second and third, have a medium-term impact. Finally, I would like to stress that my approach is, of course, aimed at preventing the need for security. I am doing this by focusing, among other things, on an integrated approach to organised crime, undermining and the protection of the groups, which I spoke to your Chamber on 13 March last evening. Mr. Chairman. I shall then be able to answer the questions. I shall, of course, also go into this point of capacity. I have already said a few words about this, but I will come back to that in concrete terms. Mr. Chairman. I will start with Mrs Den Boer, because I will start with the system myself. It wonders whether the system is still in line with developments in crime. I have analysed, as I indicated to you, what is needed in order to protect individuals in the future from serious forms of violence and threats, for example from organised crime. I have therefore noted the need for a number of improvements, some of which we are still working on. These improvements really contribute to ensuring that, in the short and long term, they continue to offer protection to individuals in an effective, efficient and unambiguous way. In addition, this approach must also be aimed at preventing the need for such security. That's the approach I was just talking about when I talked about crime. That huge effort to combat this undermining crime should also be one of the things that will reduce the need for personal protection in quantitative terms. Mrs Den Boer also asked me to include the good practices. The answer is yes. The operation of surveillance and security has been looked at in several countries. We have also looked at which security concepts of other countries we can accept here or apply in whole or in part. We must, of course, bear in mind that each country has its own way and organisation of securing individuals against threats and each country also has its own rules and experiences. Of course, all this is taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Den Boer also asked: are you prepared to carry out a thorough evaluation of the system? I have already said a lot about this. We have done an analysis and the improvements that still have to be made really still have to be made. In my view, a thorough evaluation is not necessary at the moment, also because the rules are in themselves satisfactory. But I keep repeating it: you shouldn't just look for it in improving the system. As Minister of Justice and Security, I must also look for it in the hard way of those who ensure that there are so many threats, insecurity and so on. Mr President, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mrs Den Boer has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u37	I agree with the Minister that he is seeking a clear and effective and efficient way of setting up the monitoring and security system. My question from earlier was that crime is constantly changing. Take the liquidation violence alone. This is being carried out by younger and younger offenders. Dangerous weapons are being used. The use of weapons is arbitrary, including random casualties. So that's changing a lot. Is the system designed in such a way that it can also be flexible, that it is agile, to use that hip English word, and that it can therefore also be done custom-made, for example in consultation with local authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u38	I think, based on the analysis, that the current system offers sufficient flexibility to deal with a number of things that we see now, particularly serious and organised crime, and to tackle the problem of stalking, which is, of course, a worrying social issue. You will also see, for example, in the interview at the beginning of February, February 8th, I say from my mind, that the chief officer and the officer in the matter surrounding the key witness gave in De Telegraaf, are moving along, so to speak, with no cynical intention, with the developments that are taking place in organized crime. It is not for nothing that I said in my introduction, and I have said it more often, that twenty years ago the kind of threats we see today were not there and that we have considerably strengthened the system in this respect in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u39	I'm talking, among other things, about information-driven working, so the use of intelligence, which makes you more proactive about what's needed. In the case of liquidation violence and the protection of key witnesses, we see that the phenomenon is moving across borders. Do you look beyond the borders? Do you intend to be flexible with the system not only within the Netherlands but also with the partners in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u40	Yes. I am talking about this problem with the partners, on a fairly continuous basis, in the Benelux countries in particular, but also in countries that are a little further away. Last week I returned to your Chamber just in time from Albania, where I also raised this issue. But I can only deal with this from the second pillar, namely the fight against all kinds of serious crime, because we must remain responsible for the other pillar, the system of security and guarding ourselves. You should be able to ask me about this constantly and not depend on what is being done in other countries, whether we learn from those other countries or take on certain things or practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u41	This is no longer interrupting, but in conclusion: the system is very complex because there are so many layers and so many actors involved, but there is also a need to look beyond borders at how to switch to this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u42	That was an interesting non-interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u43	I shall not go into that further. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen asked what is going to change in concrete terms as a result of the analysis. I have already indicated a number of measures that have already been introduced or are still under way. I didn't want to repeat that here. Mr Van Nispen also asked who is monitoring the interests of the key witnesses. What about aftercare? Krones are given very intensive guidance. They're assisted by a lawyer. As long as the threat exists and the key witness is included in a witness protection program, that guidance, including aftercare, will continue. Scaling is only done if it is considered justified after careful and professional consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u44	Mr Van Nispen had another question on this point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u45	It's more of an enlightenment. It doesn't necessarily have to be about key witnesses. It could also be about ordinary people, for example entrepreneurs who are onto something the police say "it would be good if you reported it, because that would help us enormously in this case," after which they are threatened and their lives turned upside down. So it's actually going a little wider than just star witnesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u46	Wider than star witnesses, that point of scaling is exactly the same. Well, exactly. It's the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u47	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u48	But are these people always reminded of the right to legal aid in such cases? I hope the answer is yes, but that has not happened in this case, for example. So, either something went wrong in this case that I know, or it has recently improved and it is now. In any case, I would like to draw attention to the fact that all those who are going to report the reasonable expectation, or the fear that they themselves will suffer from it, are entitled to legal aid if they are to be protected as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mr Van Nispen is right to draw attention to the fact that it is a good thing to draw attention to people, in cases where they are entitled to legal aid, in cases where they are. Then there is Mrs Laan-Geselschap's question about responsibility for the system. The local authority is, in principle, responsible for safety. The mayor is that for the maintenance of public order and the chief officer for criminal enforcement. The central authority will then be me, the Minister of Justice and Security, should I say via NCTV. The NCTV has a special responsibility for certain persons, objects and services. That's what's called the realm. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Laan-Geselschap's question about what happened after that terrible event of December last year with that Rotterdam student. I informed the Chamber in a joint letter with my colleague for Legal Protection on 22 January last that the Justice and Security Inspectorate is investigating the actions of the authorities in that tragic case. So I cannot comment on this at the moment. In the light of that investigation, I can't comment on a possible scaling-up either. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to leave that for what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u50	I understand that very well. Carefulness in these kinds of issues is also of the utmost importance to us. The business is very much in the city where I come from, even with a lot of young people. I think that Mr Kuzu can also speak with that. Is the Minister therefore able to give any indication of when this will be clarified? Because these kinds of issues shouldn't take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u51	I thought the inspection report would be pretty much finished by the summer, but I will make that clear in a moment, if that is all right with you, Mr President. I'm sure the exact time will come to me by a note. I'll get back to you on that. I would also like to say to Mrs Laan-Geselschap that there is such autonomy here that I cannot set that date. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to an important issue, namely capacity and resources. Mr Van Dam asked about the 1% rule. Following the PwC report, the budget is sufficient for all tasks and the police budget has been covered by the investments of that EUR 300 million in the 2017 budget for the plans adopted at that time in terms of strength, performance, service, quality, personnel, housing and ICT. The old 1% regime is no longer applicable. In the regular police planning and control cycle, it is reviewed annually whether tasks and budget are in balance. I see now that has just become me that the research will be ready in mid-summer 2019. Summer starts on June 21st, so I estimate that July 30th will be mid-summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u52	Does Mr Van Dam have a question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u53	When the Minister is done with the 1% rule, I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u54	That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u55	I asked the Minister whether he would like to make it clear, for example in the budget, how much money is spent on it every year. He does not have to tell me, so to speak, that the regulation no longer applies, because I already knew that. He had already replied to written questions. My very simple question is: are you prepared to include in the police budget for 2020 and, of course, in the annual account a post of the money that passes within the police in guarding and securing? And not only from the DKDB, but also from all kinds of other activities in that area. I have absolutely no need for insight into incidental operations or anything. I am talking about the big issue of having the big debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u56	I understand Mr Van Dam's point very well. I appreciate that he understands that it's for me to look. If I were global, maybe that would be... Well, I have to think about how exactly that could be done in a way that Mr Van Dam and the Chamber can do. It must make sense, without being able to trace things out of it somehow by waking persons outside the Chamber. It's really hard to say anything. Such a subject as safehouses, which Mrs De Boer talked about, it should all stay the way it is. Furthermore, the Chamber knows that on 12 March 2019 I sent the request for information to the Council of State on the democratic control of the Chamber's use of police resources. I think it would be wise to discuss this point further after we have received that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u57	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u58	The Justice and Security budget also includes posts on covert operations and unforeseens. We never ask about its content. I don't want to know. That's one thing. The second thing is that the Council of State's request for an opinion is almost more focused on the constitutional question of what budget law is like. I am not talking about JenV's budget. I am talking about the police budget. That's where it belongs. I would, of course, like to give the Minister the opportunity not to do things that cannot be done, but I would like to hear a commitment when he can inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u59	May I put it this way, Mr President-in-Office, it would be nice if I could look at Mr Van Dam through you to see that I intend to make this clear for the summer? At least clarify to what extent I can clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u60	Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the previous point, with your permission. I wonder what happens if the person who has been sanctioned by a restraining order breaks that restraining order. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u61	I shall now come to the question of stalking a large number of questions, including those of Mr Kuzu. It may seem more useful to me to do so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u62	Is that helpful? Mr Kuzu is going to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u63	I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Chairman. Patience will then be put to the test, because I will have to discuss the capacity issues. Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Helder asked the question about possible further funding of police and prosecutors. I have already said that the capacity and principles of this system are always under pressure. There is always scarcity and there is always a need for careful and continuous consideration in order to use it proportionally and efficiently. At the moment, I am not assuming that additional financial resources are needed. I hope that I will explain clearly enough that there is this tension and that it comes from the fact that you always have to make a weighting, because the resources are scarce. That tension does not result from the fact that there would be too little in proportion. I must therefore look at Mrs Helder, because she had asked me to do so. About the vacancies. In the letter of 20 December, I indicated that there were 73 vacancies at the end of November. I mentioned the measures I am taking to fill those vacancies. An agreement has also been reached with the accelerated training trade unions. In the autumn, 2 million were made available for additional recruitment and selection. In the slightly longer term, I expect us to really see the effects. It also seems useful to me when we talk about the other results of the steering committee in the autumn, to see where it has now taken us. If you inject such a sum of 2 million into the recruitment, that's as much as the name change cost. You should be able to see the results. Excuse me, that was a little chat with you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mrs Helder has a question on one of these two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u66	That already indicates that 2 million is really a lot of money, but otherwise I'm not implying anything. The Minister says: let's move on to capacity around autumn. However, in the letter, I agree with what the Minister said about additional resources available for recruitment and selection and internal flow of police officers: these groups are expected to enter as personal security officers in the first months of 2019. Can I conclude from the Minister's reply that this has not yet been done? Otherwise, although he may not be able to mention a specific number, he would be able to say a little more than he would come back to it in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u67	I can promise to come back to that, but I have to keep the answer to the question of how it is going to be with the police for a while, because that is quite factual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u68	Does the Minister expect this to be possible in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u69	I promise to come back to that in the second term, but perhaps even at the end of this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u70	Very briefly. I would like to hear the Minister a little more on this very important point. We have almost all pointed out: 18% vacancies at the DKDB. I would also like to know from the Minister how long this problem has been known, whether it has not been foreseen and whether it has really been properly analysed why this deficit has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u71	Let me just say, then, that I immediately answer a question from Mrs Laan about the capacitor pressure and the influence on the security orders, that the DKDB, with the current occupation, can handle the current question of the authorities. However, the workload is very high to carry out those current tasks. It is precisely in order to balance the occupation and the formation that we have put in place these additional recruitment activities. It is no secret that the years in which some savings and reductions have been made on the services have had an impact on the DKDB. We have now, therefore, called this 2 million again, with emphasis, "Really committed to a lot of extra and increased recruitment to ensure that we bring those vacancies back with great speed. But, like I said, you haven't solved that in a week. I have to tell you the truth. I have said this on an earlier occasion, but I think that we really need to see results in the coming autumn. If they are not there, if the EUR 2 million for recruitment did not result in a significant reduction in those vacancies, then something else is fundamentally wrong. Let's face it, security is a highly risky profession that requires a great deal of craftsmanship. You really need people who meet higher quality requirements and standards. So it takes a lot to get that right. But at least I bet a lot of money on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u72	If the Minister says here that the measures he has announced are sufficient, that everything is being done to get things in order and that 2 million is enough, then I think we have it there now. At least, I can't force it to go any different now. But I still want to look back. We have often had debates on whether so much savings should have been made. One thinks so and the other thinks it could have been a little less. In his analysis of current job vacancies and staff shortages, the Minister must have considered whether this would have any impact, for example on the important Royal and Diplomatic Security Service. Did they deliberately take this cut and this problem for granted at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u73	I think that is a difficult question, because that is always a bit of a judgment with today's science. Some of you, including Mrs Den Boer, have already mentioned the developments in serious crime, not only the increase in the seriousness of the threats, but also what I call recklessness with a somewhat unfortunate translation of the German concept of Rücksichtslosigkeit. These are all elements that have emerged very clearly in recent years. Fortunately, we have a flexible system that allows our services to adapt to that. They at least make it more painful not to invest in previous years. What matters to me is, and this is happening periodically with the authorities, the NCTV, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national unit de KMar, that we do our utmost with each other, with all the services, to get it really occupied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u74	I have a factual question. That 2 million has already been mentioned by the Minister in the debates we have had over the last period to improve police capacity in the broad sense. Now it seems like it's specifically just for this. Can the Minister give us a little more insight into that? In addition, I have just spoken to my fellow Members about this question during the break. What is the capacity in the Netherlands that the various services could have? Is there an analysis of the potential? Could the Minister explain this in the letter which apparently comes in the autumn? So what is to be achieved in the Netherlands? Why can't we bring that in? Then what would you have to bet extra on to make that work? Is this, as colleagues have often suggested, a financial issue or is it a question of all kinds of other ways of using it? Because then we're going to work towards a future and possibly a solution. As far as we are concerned, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u75	I think that's a good idea, let me start with that. Mrs Laan pointed out that there was also a curious type of competition between various services and service components in this respect. A number of functions are available, also outside the DKDB, where the highly qualified persons who meet the DKDB profile are also suitable for, or are attractive to, them. This means that as a government you have to be very careful not to compete away from each other, and you also have to look at the private sector. I think it is a good idea, and I would like to say this, to put it together in that autumn letter and then to discuss it with each other, also on the basis of what still remains to be filled with vacancies at that time. I must honestly say that we are making this enormous effort, but I cannot at this stage say whether we will have filled 60 of these 73 vacancies, which I would find quite a good number, but good. Mrs Buitenweg asked whether the means for security are now in order in all cases. That is very difficult, because then you will come up with communications on operational matters, as Mrs Buitenweg mentioned, and I cannot say anything about that. It is clear that the services with the resources and the people who are there, and the professionalism, are, of course, fully committed to security that meets the standards and requirements. Then there is Mr Van Dam's question, and then I come to the brief with answers on Mr Kuzu's point: protecting citizens and stalking victims and so on. I start with Mr Van Dam, who wondered whether the use of personal security would never be possible again for ordinary citizens who are seriously threatened. The deployment of police and prosecutors is aimed at preventing or stopping violence and protecting the victim. As a threat and a risk, the government assumes responsibility for taking protection or security measures. That's what a professional trade-off precedes. And then I come back to that customization. Of course, that professional consideration really relates to what is needed to remove the threat or to shape security in this case. This means, in practice, that personal security capacity is mainly reserved for the protection of people who perform a function in the interests of the democratic rule of law or values such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press; think of journalists and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u76	That raises a number of questions, starting with Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u77	I understand that last point. On that first point, the Minister spoke about the professional balance. I don't want to take anything away from the professionalism of those people who weigh that up. It is their job and it is not up to me as a Member of Parliament to judge it. However, I am looking at the facts of recent years. Mrs Buitenweg spoke of 40 women who had been murdered in the past year. On what basis are these considerations made? Are they made sufficiently secure? Is it perhaps necessary to put more professionalism into that, as we are dealing too much and too often with incidents?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u78	I shall now turn to Mrs Den Boer's question on the approach to stalking. This requires an integrated approach, with all parties involved. Then you must indeed have a level of knowledge that is in order with all those parties. Those parties are the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, but also the probation and Safe Home. Their commitment must be to prevent or stop the violence and protect the victim. For this purpose, the police have prepared the work instruction stalking. I described this in the letter I sent you this afternoon. She is also currently developing expertise in the field of stalking. This is how all detective psychologists are trained in the units. Workshops are being organised on this subject, and this year and next year additional trainings are being developed that look at domestic violence, including stalking by the ex-partner. My colleagues De Jonge and Dekker have made a special effort on the subject of domestic violence. Your room is aware of that. In such a case a screening will take place, where necessary with partners such as the Public Prosecutor's Office and Safe Home. And then an approach is determined that is aimed at the individual case. If the threat is assessed as acute, adequate protection measures will be taken. I'm going to say a little more about it later, but that still doesn't mean that you can guarantee 100% safety in society. Of course, as Minister of Justice and Security, I think that is an extremely terrible thing, but that is something that we must always take into account in every effort we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u79	In this sense, the DENK Group is realistic. That we could guarantee 100% safety is a utopia, a nice utopia. The Minister has listed a number of measures, ranging from workshops and training courses to all kinds of things that will be launched in the coming period. My question is: does the Minister think that this is sufficient or sufficient to ensure that we have fewer victims in the future than is currently the case? This is a serious social problem that concerns a lot of people. Can the Minister predict, on the basis of these measures, that there will be fewer incidents as we have known in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u80	A few things about that, and then I'm going to say things now and then that are already an answer to what has been said here and there. First of all, I just stressed the importance of professionalism and of professional cooperation between all the different services. They have to be on the lead. We must continue to work on this in order to get it up-to-date and to use and learn new resources. That's one. The second is that of course we also need to have the awareness in the whole. That doesn't just apply to the police officer. This also applies to the local authority, which, as I said earlier, is ultimately about the protection measures in a local matter. I would also like to say to Mr Van Dam that I personally am in favour of a periodic study of this awareness. Let me put that in front of you. Because I think it is really important that we constantly establish on this subject whether we are still on top of it. Then there is my third point. I'd like to wait and see the results of the inspection. On the one hand, the police are expanding their expertise in stalking. On the other hand, the inspection will come soon, in the summer of 2019, which was announced by the inspection itself as a result of that terrible event, including a further analysis of what might have to be done in a general sense. So I should not anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u81	I would like to return to the point made by the Minister for the interruption by Mr Kuzu. I have heard the Minister say that security should apply to all citizens. I'm really glad he said that. But for me, the essence of this debate is what is in this letter, and that is really a policy breach, namely that people who have a function in the democratic rule of law or in the public domain or who support it, in my words, say, "in the end, have more priority or should be able to continue their lives undisturbedly than others." The Minister just said and also writes that in practice it means that personal security is reserved only for that category of people. I understand that, but I think it is very essential that it is established that the whole palette is also available to ordinary citizens, in perhaps very extreme situations. That's the question I'm asking. I'm not talking about average business. But it can't be that if a citizen can imagine that situation, he or she is really extremely threatened, he or she hits a cop or a prosecutor who puts this letter on the table and says: sorry, that's just for a politician or a journalist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u82	In his first term, Mr Van Dam rightly referred to Rule 51aa. Let's start with the fact that I'm talking about safety. When we look at Article 51aa, it says that the government needs to look closely at what is needed to take protection measures for people who, in short, are in an endangered situation. Let me say it in simple language for the people who may be watching and for everyone who is here. This means that the government always has a duty when someone reports to the police and there is a case of which the authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Safe Home, say: this is really about threatening stalking, we have to do something about this. That's Article 51aa. The duty is to give every citizen safety. I said in the letter on page 2 that in practice it means that personal security capacity is basically reserved for the protection of persons performing a function in the interests of the democratic legal order and so on. That is not to say: they have it and the others have to see it. I would like to make it quite clear that this is a group which, if their function or the circumstances of their function so require, should think about what happens to some of your Members of Parliament, and indeed should be able to enjoy personal protection in order to continue to perform their duties. That is a rather different situation from a person in a serious threat of stalking, but I would like to say this out loud here, as is the duty of the government to ensure adequate security. That could be in the form of security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Van Dam, I'd like to ask you to do both the questions and the answers to the point, just to say it in the wrong language.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u84	I will, Mr. Chairman. I may take the words 'in practice' in such a way that it is really limited to practice and that I should not read the words 'principal never' there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u85	Let me put it this way: in practice it is in practice. It doesn't say "principal not" or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u86	Then we've established that again. I have heard the Minister say a lot of things: he is very busy, the police are busy, the detectives are being trained, there are protocols and so on. I think that's great. I mean that sincerely; that is not cynical. But here's what I'm worried about. I took the Tweeden report this afternoon. It said that there were a lot of protocols in the past, but that they weren't really known at the time. Above all, there was a very systematic approach with a focus on criminal justice and with very little focus on the victim. And I know what the Minister's saying. He says, "I'm busy right now, just to train those detectives properly." But the detective is often not the one who takes the first intake or the one where someone arrives in the first place. The person often makes an appointment, and often says: come back in one or two weeks. How do we make sure someone isn't unprotected in that week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u87	I didn't just say that. I have also said that there are many training courses, and not just detectives. I myself went to the police station in Apeldoorn last year to be informed about how stalking is now being handled. I can see that the police expertise in this area is really increasing. We must also say the following. Stalking is a social phenomenon. It has been over the past decade, I don't know if I can say that, but at least not for so long, going to play in our society and getting bigger and bigger. The police are still working on it, but well, I'm responsible for further expanding the expertise on that, and not just with detectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u89	But what can we expect now? Sometime in the middle of the summer, the investigation into the situation of Humeyra will come to light. It looks at the way in which we have been dropped there, and whether we have not adequately protected her. My question is whether it can sometimes be extended. I think it is very good that this matter is being carefully looked at, because it is horrible what has happened, but we are always talking about individual matters that are being looked at individually. My question was whether we should consider what generic conclusions we can draw from this. That's what I want to know. Is that inspection investigation going to continue? And does the Minister's conclusions go beyond the individual case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u90	Yes. I already said that, but maybe not clear enough. I would also like to emphasise this, also for the people who are watching. The Justice and Security Inspectorate has an independent power to decide to initiate such an investigation. The inspection said the day after that terrible, violent death: "We are going to investigate this event and everything that has happened in this particular matter. But we will also take into account how the instructions now work in the area of tackling this kind of problem of stalking and threatening individual citizens." This is, of course, particularly true in the case of people, mostly women, who are seriously threatened or stalked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u91	I also asked a question about work instruction and training, particularly with regard to stalking. The Minister plays a bit for Klaas Frequently, if I may put it that way. We get a bit of sand in the eyes when he says: I am very impressed by the growing expertise with the police. That will be fine, but there are also people who say that the police still have a lot to learn when it comes to signaling stalking, accepting declarations and getting there as early as possible so that serious threats can be avoided at a later stage. Do you share the view that there is still room for improvement when it comes to training police officers in the field of stalking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u92	Although I find it an honor to be compared with one of the television heroes of my youth, I would nevertheless like to fight that I am him, so to speak, in this case. I told you we have to work on this professionalism and that expertise all the time. This was also something that had to be done in recent years. I also said we're not here yet. Now I say it very simply and in a not too sleepy way, I hope. Let me be very clear: we are not here yet. We will still have to work on it more, but I would like to take the independent conclusions and observations of the inspection well. In the meantime, there is no misunderstanding about this. The police are still working on improvement. This applies not only to the police, but also to the other services and local authorities that have a responsibility. I am very much in favour of periodic testing of this awareness, as Mr Van Dam suggested, because I believe that this should apply to everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u93	Very briefly. I understand that we should not jump to any conclusions, but the problem of stalking and the threats arising from it is a major problem in the Netherlands, which existed before the tragic death of Humeyra and the tragic death of Mrs Mijdrecht yesterday. Of course, we can still learn, but I would actually like to see a somewhat more active attitude from the Minister for bringing generic knowledge about stalking to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u94	Then I have to stand up for the services that fall under my responsibility, not myself. There's no way we can draw any conclusions about that horrible death the night before last. I really want to say something about this in general, so let's just stay away from those things for a while, no matter how good it is that everyone has expressed their sadness about it. I really want to talk about it in general. I see, like the Chamber, that threat and stalking, a particular form of threat, are phenomena that have been serious in our society for the past ten, perhaps fifteen years. Our services have developed in this, as I said before, with reference to the interview with the Public Prosecutor, but we need to continue to do more in terms of expertise. We need to stay focused.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u96	Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a few specific questions. Mr Van Dam asked about the possibilities for protecting key witnesses and family members. If there is a serious and serious threat arising from the cooperation of a witness with the police or the judiciary, there will be a duty of care for the government. I've already indicated that, but I'd like to confirm that here. This duty of care may extend to family members when the investigation reveals that they are at risk too. The most far-reaching aspect is inclusion in the Witness Protection Program. Mrs Buitenweg asked the question about its own responsibility for safety. Within the monitoring and security system, there is a gradual division of responsibility for taking security measures. First, the individuals themselves, second, the employer, third, the government. If individuals or organisations themselves cannot provide sufficient resistance to threat and risk, the government has that duty. I've talked about that before. That's Article 51aa of Criminal Procedure. So I really want to discuss Mrs Buitenweg's questions on the other issues when we have that inspection investigation. Then I think we'd better talk about that. Mr Van Nispen wondered whether people could rely on the government when it comes to protecting their security. I would like to stress that once it has been established that a person is seriously threatened, protection measures are in place and that if the person concerned does not have sufficient resistance to do so himself, the government has a duty to take care of that. Then people must indeed assume that the government is going to work with that duty. In general, Mrs Buitenweg asks whether the system is sufficiently equipped to protect women. I would like to say a few words about that. The government takes responsibility for protecting citizens regardless of gender if the threat and the risk are so great that that person or employer cannot take care of it himself. But I also want to say that this professional consideration is tailor-made. Of course, this also takes account of the history, the relationship between the person threatened and the person threatened and the other circumstances involved. Then I come back to the resilience of the person involved. It weighs very heavily. Mr. Chairman. Then I actually come to the questions about the threatened mayors and journalists. But first, Mr Kuzu. He has asked a question, and he has also addressed it in the case of interruption. What happens if someone breaks a restraining order? In that case, the person concerned may be apprehended in the first instance. The subsequent action depends on the circumstances and the case. It could be a restraining order in the context of suspension of pre-trial detention, suspended sentence, conditional release. Depending on the case, the suspension of pre-trial detention may, for example, be withdrawn. There are sufficient resources and opportunities for this in itself, but there will always be an individual matter. As I mentioned earlier in reply to a question from Mrs Buitenweg, the position and the degree of resilience of the endangered person, of the victim, are also involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u97	In my speech, I spoke of the cynicism that can occur when we talk about these kinds of subjects. The Minister indicated that the investigation of the Justice and Security Inspectorate is expected sometime after the summer. The Minister indicated that this is expected in July. The letter said: after the summer of 2019. At least that's what we've established. With this kind of thing, of course, people, the next of kin, have to wait a long time before they get any kind of clarity, which also provides some satisfaction for the next of kin. I don't have all the wisdom in rent, either, but isn't it an idea, a proposal, to divide these kinds of pathways into, for example, two stages? Is it an idea to do the extensive investigation nine months after, but in the meantime we can also record a number of facts that have not acted properly? One of those facts in the Humeyra case, for example, is that a restraining order has been imposed, that the restraining order has been violated and that such a terrible event has subsequently occurred. I think you can feel on your clogs that mistakes have been made there. Why is the Minister not prepared to draw conclusions on this more quickly than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u98	A Minister of Justice shouldn't start to feel on his clogs. We really have to go to court here, and the thorough, careful investigation is also part of the course of justice. In the last 17 or 18 months I have had enough of the desperate, sometimes angry, question: why can't you say something; why don't you give your opinion? You don't have to. The suffering has already been done. That's why we give those qualifications to them. Those qualifications, the terrible fact that someone was killed violently and the grief of those around them, the close family and friends, must prevail. Then you have to give the victim, but also the neighbors, the respect and justice by thoroughly checking what happened. What I see and what you see is that in this sort of thing regularly in the first hours, days or weeks this or that says: look, sister was the case, or so was the circumstance. In another message it turns out that it was wrong again or that it was just different. I think that I should not only say myself that we should not talk about this, but that I should also say that I am also asking the Chamber to do so. Stay away from that, 'cause you're not doing anybody any luck, and you're not doing anybody any justice. I cannot therefore say yet that there are facts in a case whose criminal investigations and what else they are doing. There are facts, however sad, only when the judge has given his ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u99	That point is entirely justified. I'm talking about the investigation report that's due in June. This is particularly about the organizational aspects of this whole thing. Unfortunately, this is not the first time such a thing has happened. An investigation has a design and then a period of investigation. My observation, which I base on six years as a Member of Parliament, is that the investigation that is carried out after such tragic events requires a certain run-up every time. At Mitch Henriquez the investigation lasted fourteen months, now we see that it will take nine months. My question is whether we can speed this up without compromising the thoroughness and the answers we are looking for. Anne Faber's research lasted a year. I can feel it on my clogs. I think we can do it a little faster than we do now. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u100	We have, although some in your Chamber sometimes doubt the solidity of the investigations, been in fifth place for years in the Rule of Law Index. We have a very solid legal system. I am committed to ensuring that those who play a role in the criminal process really do their utmost to deliver high quality and do the good work within that solid legal system. That sometimes means that a case has been resolved very quickly, depending on how the case is. Sometimes it means that a case takes a very long time. I was in Limburg on Monday to talk to the coldcase team about a case from 1975: 43 years ago and not yet resolved. Sometimes that's how cruel such a situation is. I understand the despair, the impatience and, especially in the case of next of kin, the anger and the grief, but we must try to absorb this and say that we must really let the course of justice take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u101	I'm gonna ask you a question for clarification, okay? Because I heard the Minister answer the question as to what the possible responses are to the violation of the restraining order. The Minister said, of course, that depends on the matter. I understand that, but I also heard the Minister say that the victim's resilience is also being looked at. But it can't be, can it? If a restraining order is violated, the response to it cannot depend on the victim's resilience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u102	The response to a violation of a restraining order shall take into account all circumstances. As far as what needs to be done with the offender is concerned, I have created a misunderstanding. Through you, Mr President, I would like to apologize. In addition, this resilience does not matter. Then there is a question from Mrs Helder about the capacity of recruitment. It is not possible that we report on this to your Chamber every month. But we can do that with the six-month report from the police. Fast updates also do not give a reliable picture, because then you can also have accidental ups and downs. I actually wanted to go to the threatened mayors. By the way, I am almost through the answers, so you should vote sunny. In the debate on the threatened mayors, I made a commitment to Mrs Den Boer to discuss the cooperation between the local triangle and the role of the NCTV. As a central authority delegated to the Coödinator, I have a special responsibility for certain persons, objects and services. That's the realm. They are included in the national domain because of the national importance of their security and undisturbed functioning. The local authority is in principle responsible for the safety of all other persons and objects. So you will see that the mayor is for the maintenance of public order and the chief officer for the criminal enforcement of the legal order, including the security of persons and objects. That has to be decided locally. That is also understandable, because the local authority is able to make the best assessment on the basis of threat and risk, and on what measures to take. By the way, a mayor doesn't have to decide on his own security. That's the job of the state's attorney's office. In order to replace the discussion in the local triangle, the mayor would sit in the triangle and talk about his own security.The chief officer will be advised by the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator and Security. It will then assess independent measures for completeness. In addition, the NCTV has a signaling and advisory role for the decentralised domain, i.e. for local authorities. Furthermore, NCTV can provide unsolicited advice, but before the NCTV delivers unsolicited advice, it will always contact the competent authority in the decentralised domain. Mrs Den Boer also asked whether there were any results on the agreements concerning the threat to journalists. There are good intermediate results. I refer to the entry into force of the law on source protection and the corresponding directive on 1 October. As from 1 April last year, the increased penalty requirement in accordance with the OM Directive, which makes it possible to demand a higher penalty, will apply: 200%. You were able to read in the press last week that a small moment was thought of by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch Association of Journalists. I can't do anything about the date either. The Press hotline was launched safely. Furthermore, police and OM apply as much lick-on-piece policy as possible, including priority handling of cases in case of aggression and violence against journalists. Work is under way in the coming months to develop it. The other measures in the Press projectSafely will become operational in the autumn. I would like to say that these agreements are really quite a list. I have looked at them again in connection with Mrs Helder's remark, because I always take criticism to heart. We made those appointments last summer and so we are on our way. Those appointments were about to be signed when that missile launcher attack came. And then we decided to postpone that signature for a few weeks or a week. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen asked whether there was a coordinated approach to the protection of journalists. Yeah, the D.A. and the police, as I said, are already applying that lick-on-piece policy as much as possible. I have now answered Mrs Helder's question on that point. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the individual assessment of casuism. Is it included in the inspection investigation? Yes, that is part of the current work instruction, but I will certainly bring that to your attention. Finally, Mr President, as always, the last one is the other. It contains only one question, namely the question of the relationship between the use of personal security and the division that appears to arise when it comes to the European obligation towards victims in Article 51aa. In fact, I have already said a few things about this in connection with an interruption by Mr Van Dam. I think I have made it quite clear that in the Netherlands the EU directive and 51aa are being implemented by what I clearly described in my letter as that method of individual assessment. I hope that I have been able to take away any concern from Mr Van Dam by stressing that 'in practice' actually means 'in practice' on that other point. Mr President, I am through my reply. I thought I had answered a single question just parked and that is my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u103	I would like to thank the Minister very much for that. This put an end to the first deadline. We will start with the second term, and we will start with Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u104	I note that during this debate the loss rate is quite high among Members of Parliament. So the end of the debate is almost there. I thank the Minister for his answers. I had the idea of coming up with two motions, including a motion on the availability of measures for all citizens. That is the debate on whether "in practice" means "in principle." I have had sufficient answers to that and I will not make a motion on that. The other motion was about the finances. I will not come up with that either, because I have noted the promise that a letter will be sent before the summer. But I do have another motion, which reads as follows, to avoid going out of the debate completely white or empty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that police work in stalking cases and in the context of domestic violence is carried out with a national work instruction;]] [[Whereas the awareness of police officers, both with regard to the detection of potential cases of stalking and/or threat and with regard to the correct application of the current work instruction, including cooperation with chain partners, is essential;]] [[invites the Government to periodically audit the implementation of the work instruction and to inform the Court of the results of that audit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam, Buitenweg and Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u105	A brief explanation. I think it is very useful not only to look at incidental cases where it has ended very wrongly, but also, above all, to invest periodically and in advance in this whole fragile process in the proper application of that work instruction. How do you say that again? The ditch muffles before the calf sank, that's the intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u106	The well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u107	The well, yes. Let's see: well, calf, mute; something in that order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u108	It's being sorted out. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u109	Mr. Chairman. I didn't have any motions, so I don't have to say I'm not going to file them. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. One question is not fully answered, I have the idea. Then it is about the employees of the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service; heavy work, difficult work in difficult circumstances. In that context, I had asked whether, looking at the past, sufficient action is being taken to preserve those who are now employed in the DKDB. I had the feeling that maybe that was answered side by side but not entirely. That's what I'd like to know. Otherwise, we'll wait and see. After the autumn recess, we'll talk more about it. The system of monitoring and securing is something that unfortunately is needed and which we, as representatives of the people, must continue to be able to monitor properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u110	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer of D66. The second term is one minute twenty for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the many questions. I had some loose questions about safehouses, about coordinators Boris Dittrich was also looking for them as founder of the stalking law, but I will leave them for the coming debate, which we will probably have in the autumn. I shall confine myself to reading one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 25% of women have to deal with stalking throughout their lives;]] [[believes that everyone should be protected from stalkers and that early police action is essential;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with the national police, to optimise and, if necessary, extend the level of expertise and training of police officers in the field of stalking, in line with the inspection report on the Humeyra case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u113	Mrs Buitenweg apologizes. The same applies to Mr Van Nispen. Mr Kuzu has the floor on behalf of DENK. I see he may have a lot of motions? Go, go, go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u114	Well, chairman, I had three motions prepared. Motion one is about the vacancies. Of this, the Minister has indicated "we're going to see it in the autumn," so I'm not going to file it. Motion two is about the scope and strengthening of resources. Of this, the Minister indicated that at least the resources are sufficient and that everyone who needs protection is protected. At least that's the short version. I'll file the final motion. It's about council members and provincial statesmen, who are increasingly threatened. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 28% of council members have experience of aggression and violence;]] [[noting that 18% of council members do not know what steps to take following an experience of threat;]] [[considers that the security and sense of security of council members is essential for the functioning of the democratic legal order;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the VNG and the IPO, to ensure that municipal and provincial government members receive information in a handy manner describing the steps they can take following experience of aggression and violence, as well as the assistance they can receive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for the answers. As far as the VVD is concerned, one question remains: who is in charge when? I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to answer these specific questions in his reply and in his analysis of the various cases that are still to come. You have explained what the various responsibilities were. We figured that out, too. My associate also knew how to tell me exactly what was going on. So we've already figured that out, but who was in charge when, at what point? This is also important for the evaluation. As a VVD, we come to the conclusion that we are simply talking about a very fragile reality, in which people can also be very vulnerable in their own environment. Of course, that is already very clear. It's about people, and it's about business, too. And it's about staff and capacity again. I understand that we are going to talk about this this autumn around autumn. I have talked to the Minister before about this type of period of six months. I understand the administrative system, but I would really like to insist that it should happen before the autumn and that we should not worry about Christmas here again, because we simply need to address some of these issues. I'm rounding up. We hope that the Minister will have had enough input to get on with this tonight. Once again, we think of all people who risk their lives every day to protect others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u116	Thank you. Then I'll look at the minister, who's already preparing his papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u117	Hopefully I'll get the final text in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u118	Haven't you got it yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u119	No, but I can get started. That's what makes life so beautiful. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion in part No. 233 members of Buitenweg and Den Boer, on the periodic audit of the work instruction. I leave the judgment to your Chamber. I would like to read the motion in such a way that, after the inspection report on this matter, I will discuss it with the Chief Constable in order to determine the possibilities for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u120	It is the motion of Members Van Dam, Buitenweg and Den Boer. And Mr Van Dam has a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u121	No, from Buitenweg and Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u122	No, Van Dam is underneath it. Let's get some reading glasses on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u123	Yeah, excuse me. Yeah, sorry. It is the motion of Members Van Dam, Buitenweg and Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u124	I don't usually stand out, either, so I get it. The Minister has already made some other commitments. I could imagine that in that letter, on occasion, he would mention how he would shape it. In line with what the Minister says, I would like to make that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u125	Agreed. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 234. It's Mrs. Den Boer's, but it's Mrs. Bergkamp's. That motion is about the level of expertise. I would also like to leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. I would like to see the results of the inspection carried out included in this optimization in the future. I have already said that we will continue to do so, let there be no misunderstanding about that, but we will, of course, take that with us, especially when it comes to expanding or updating it as necessary, on which you write. Then Mr Kuzu had another motion, which is the motion in part No. In fact, it is in the area of the Home Affairs colleague. Now I know that the Home Affairs colleague has a whole folder and a whole brochure containing information that does indeed belong in the Weerbaar Bestuur program of her home. I do not know exactly what that looks like, but I do know enough to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. However, I am pleased to point out to Mr Kuzu that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will then be present. Then there is another question from Mrs Helder. Are we doing enough to keep the DKDBs? Yeah, I really think we're very committed to that. We have had good discussions with the trade unions about the older employees. We'll take all that into account in the next progress report on that. Mr President, those were the motions and the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u126	Thank you. That is the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u127	I would like to thank everyone who is watching. I would like to thank the Minister very much and to thank all the other Members present in the Chamber. I wish you all a good and safe journey home. Vote on the motions is next Tuesday, I suggest.
