ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin, in the context of oral Question Time, with Mrs Van Toorenburg's question to the Minister for Justice and Security about the failing approach of the Brabant drug industry. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the Brabants Dagblad, BN DeStem and the Eindhovens Dagblad developed big with a file on undermining, according to themselves with investigative journalism as these newspapers had never shown. And indeed, it was impressive; compliments for that. From various sides, the undermining crime was highlighted. That's invaluable, because we're not done. It is, however strange it sounds, actually nice that they have announced that they will continue with this for the time being, because it should not get in the background. We have major problems with drug-related crime in Brabant and not just there by now. It is good that it has been presented intrusively. It is not for nothing that the Chamber has already made this a spearhead. But the headlines didn't lie about it. That is why, I think, it is good to ask the Minister of Justice and Security here today. One of the headlines, as the President said, was that the approach of the Brabant drug industry is failing. And it looks like this won't change in the years to come. How does the Minister judge this? He's so passionate about it. I'd like to hear if he recognizes the statue. We see that results are being achieved and that cooperation has become more effective, but we also see that a lot of criminals are still emerging. I'll recognize that image. It's mostly in the chain, because our codes of conduct, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Law are rigged with so many guarantees, that criminals hardly get behind bars. I spoke to a mayor last Friday who said that in 2013 they rolled up a gang and maybe at the end of this year someone will come to court. Then I understand that the King's Commissioner in Brabant says: we are watching and being laughed at. But I don't think the Minister would recognize that at all. That's what I like to hear from him. I also want to know whether the modernisation of our criminal laws is going to be a real success. Privacy laws always stand in our way. I would like to know where concrete progress is now being made. We've heard some great plans about countering money laundering. I'd like to know from the Minister how he sees it. I would also like to know how he continues to be motivated in the fight against drug use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna drop the door in the house. I think the Chamber will have noticed that a firm approach to the drugs problem is one of the main priorities for me during my period as Minister of Justice and Security. Let me start by saying that the cabinet invests heavily in this too. You know it: 100 million in the anti-undermining fund and 85 million in the regions, almost a quarter of which go to the regions of Brabant. In addition, there is 10 million for a structural approach. Then we have another $30 million to take away criminal assets and $10 million for cyber and undermining. There is also a lot of extra police. I do not want the spectators and Members present to be confused, so I am not going to list all the figures, but I do want to say that in the regions that are so affected by the criminal drug production and transit, Zeeland, West Brabant, East Brabant and Limburg, on top of the extra formation to agents, we have put in extra agents. In addition, I would like to stick to the positive points: there are a number of regulatory pathways that have been set in motion or will be set in motion very soon, after extensive discussions with the Chamber in advance. I am thinking of what Mr Van Toorenburg has already mentioned, the Data Sharing Partnerships Act, which is intended to make it possible to share, in broader contexts, public-private, public-public data, which may be of great importance in the detection of undermining crime. I am thinking of what was originally an idea of a very good cop from Brabant, Freek Pecht, namely the criminalisation of possession or transport of illegal precursors, such as components of hard drugs. I am thinking of the criminalisation of a number of other things. Mr President, I would like to mention this very quickly, if I may. The penalty for threat, because threat has become a business model, I've always said. It's just all part of these organized gangs. Cost story is also important. There's gonna be a bill that's gonna make it possible to recover costs from cases like drug dumping. Then, of course, the question I have to answer, and I will do it soon, whether I recognize myself in that image. I recognise in the picture that we are not yet there, and I say everywhere, including in that annex of the Brabants Dagblad: we are now taking a first big step, but we need to take further steps. Don't look back too much, but especially forwards, and tackle organized crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u5	I think it is a good thing that the Minister says: we must look ahead above all else. I would like to highlight two aspects in particular. One is that as a CDA, I am still convinced that the fight against drug crime is hard to win as long as all kinds of fanciers on Facebook still use their drugs enthusiastically and are totally indifferent to the total devastating origin of those drugs. I'm saying that because I know the minister doesn't want to criminalize the user, but I'm sure this is a thorn in his eye too. How are we gonna make sure that the festival season comes again, that someone with drugs at the gate just doesn't come in and maybe next time they won't come to that party? Because in the end, in this way, they also destroy the pleasure of others. Actually, I'm curious. We often talk about a revolver fund. Take away what you've taken, so that society can benefit from it. Can't the Minister keep trying to shape that? Now the neighborhood sees that a property will be empty with a sticker "This property is empty" on it for nine months. Make sure people who live near that property can have fun! And finally. We have often been a bit grouchy about the old Dutch Data Protection Authority, which almost every time became a kind of threshold. Does this minister now feel that he is a partner in the fight against organised crime, or is it still just a huge horde?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u6	Suggested the following. We need to tackle drug trafficking and drug production hard. We should not criminalise the drug user, but we should appeal to people who take that pill or snort that cocaine, to their responsibility, to its unhealthy effects and to the disruptive effects on society of that drug production, of that drug trafficking, of the drug dumping, so that all that dirty chemical crap just ends up in residential areas and so on. We need to focus on prevention and indeed, the word has not yet been spoken, and I will continue to think with my colleague, the Secretary of State of the United States, about the increasingly emerging problem of nitrous oxide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mr President. We're reviewing the Code of Criminal Procedure and I'm getting signals from the police that they think it's a huge academic exercise. I think it is important that we consider whether, if necessary, we can see with totally frustrated prosecutors, whose fingers itch to really get on with it, where the real benefits are in our Code of Criminal Procedure, so that it is not just an academic exercise, but a penal code with teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u9	Very quickly, Mr President, in one sentence about that. As announced in your Chamber, I'm here for the recess with two letters. One is about the approach to synthetic drugs, and the second is about the legislative proposal undermining legislation, in which a number of cases, which are very much focused on the excesses in modern crime, are being fought against against companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Then Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. With so many young people in the gallery, it is good to say again: drugs are garbage, especially not to start. We appeal to this minister on how to deal with this crime really well. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already mentioned privacy. I would like to hear the Minister a little more about this today. The mayor of Eindhoven said, "We look like crazy Henkie." It's still too difficult to exchange information. Can the Minister tell us where the bottlenecks are and how they can be picked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u12	A reflection on exactly where the bottlenecks are in the regulation on personal data might be too far ahead of this Question Time. What I can say is that I have announced to the Chamber that I will come forward with a legislative proposal on data sharing through partnerships. For the people in the gallery, this is really meant to ensure that public authorities, but also companies such as energy suppliers and housing corporations, are better able to exchange information if there are serious problems. I have talked to the Personal Data Authority about this for a long time, because we both felt that this should be a legislative proposal that is privacy proof. Because it shouldn't be the case that privacy can become the shield for criminals. Then you'll be sitting at the European Court and saying people we suspect of serious crimes: sorry, but that was contrary to my privacy. So I have talked about this for a long time, and I am pleased to say that I have also written to your Chamber that that bill is now indeed going to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u13	Yeah, okay. Then Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u14	I too am shocked by the publications in the Brabant newspapers. I was very pleased with the good cooperation between mayors and the King's Commissioner, but I came here a few months ago with a proposal that was a bit laughing about at the time. I would like to hear a response from the Minister again. Why don't we promote that the military can assist the police in some operations and why don't we do a pilot in Oirschot to multidisciplinary action against this massive crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u15	I pointed out to Mr Krol when he came up with this very original idea that there are already certain possibilities for such cooperation. However, I would just like to say that our police, especially when we talk about Brabant, Zeeland and Limburg, are standing and very well equipped. I've got the numbers here. I'm not gonna tire you of raiding drug labs and rallying criminal partnerships. As a good democratic society, we really don't need the army for that. I have every confidence in our police in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u16	Second question, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u17	I too have all these compliments to the police, but the fact is that the army has certain instruments, I am thinking of night vision goggles that are not so common in the police. They would not be able to strengthen each other in all cases, but in those cases where that is useful so terribly. Why don't you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u18	I can only repeat what I said. Of course there will be situations, but for the real work we still need the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr. Chairman. When the Minister was just talking about self-criminalizing the possession of synthetic drugs, I really had to laugh. I immediately looked at colleague Van Nispen, who had the same seizure. We have been saying this for years, along with the Brabant-Zeeland Task Force. Anyway, it's gonna be there and so 1-0 for our two parties. Let me make another attempt in another area. The article says that police chief Paulissen says that the gap is too big, despite all the figures the minister mentions and everything that is already being done. Mr Daniel, also a police chief, says: we can't get the big boys in the picture. That's where you're gonna hit. What is the Minister going to do to help both gentlemen with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u20	First of all, I want to do no injustice to anyone, but Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Helder certainly did a great deal of good to me on this point too. I only thought that Mr Pecht would be somewhat honored here, because that is a cop who also just goes inside those labs and he came to me with this idea at least to my knowledge first. Then the point of those big bad guys. It is precisely the point of strengthening detectives and also strengthening the capacities of detectives, their deepening, that should lead to much better entry into the summit, as Mrs Helder calls it. Furthermore, I have a number of collaborations with colleagues directly across the border, which have recently been closed over the last year and a half. We have already noticed that we are also getting closer to the summit of such organisations in this respect. I hope to be able to tell you more about this in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u21	The VVD would like to know exactly what happens to the undermining fund. As a VVD, we were pleased with this fund. There's $100 million in it. Contrary to the billions that criminals collect, that's a dime. Last week, we saw the Minister in a beautiful building, where he and the Minister of Finance walked among crazy cars and where apparently in a back room there was a Rembrandt who was bought with these billions. Isn't it possible to make that fund revolver? For the people at home, the money that gets picked up will then be deposited into that fund. How is this Minister going to work so that it could possibly be dealt with in this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u22	I would like to say very briefly to Mrs Laan that the responsibility for what the undermining fund was spent on is in a letter. I'll give the Registry the exact location. I believe it was November 2018. It says exactly how it is divided between the projects in the region. How are we gonna get more money? You have indeed seen that I, together with the Minister of Finance, am going to tighten up a number of points when it comes to tackling money laundering. We are also going to ensure that we get better instruments in the area of taking away. For this, it is possible that certain privacy barriers may be reduced in relation to banks. We hope that the above-mentioned bill will enable data processing to be carried out by means of partnerships. That is really an important ambition we have. The government agreement assumes that the proceeds collected by stripping criminals and criminal organisations will end up in the entire money pool of the Ministry of Finance. We have done this for good reasons, which I have explained before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u23	I would also like to draw special attention from this place to all the mayors and local and regional directors who are involved in this day and day. In the wake of all this crime, they have to deal with threats and intimidation. If you're reading such an article in the paper, I imagine that's gonna put you down as a local director. You can see and see that what we're aiming for with each other is actually lagging behind. What's the Minister gonna do for these drivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u24	I'm performing with my colleague from the Interior. Now I'm going to confine myself to my own domain. I come to your Chamber this week, as I have said, with a letter listing the undermining legislation. There is also a legislative proposal which significantly increases the level of sanctions in relation to threats, especially in the case of drivers, civil servants and so on. On the contrary, we want to make it clear that this has become a fact that belongs to the business model of criminal organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u25	Undermining is a multi-headed monster. I get the feeling that if we look back on this Question Time, it is more of a chat time than a question time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u26	Well, well, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u27	Those are my words and not yours, Mr President. It feels a little like: we do this and we do that, and then everything will be okay. The criticism from the left to the right, from the King's Commissioner to all kinds of mayors and policemen in the field, who struggle with it every day, is that there is too little money and the measures announced take too long. Then there is my specific question. The money laundering plan of two ministers announced with much aplomb also contained many measures which the Chamber has long adopted by way of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u28	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u29	My question is: why should the Chamber provide the inspiration? Where can we feel that there really is urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u30	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u31	How soon can we expect action? 'Cause it's all going on incredibly long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u32	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u33	I cast the thought that this would be a chat away from me. I would like to come to your Chamber to explain or justify any point. That's one. Secondly, at an emergency rate, which takes into account the fact that you want to offer rather limited time, I have mentioned a large number of legislative proposals that I am working on, have been busy or are in the process. I have also mentioned a lot of amounts that we are investing. I will tell you that at the end of the afternoon I will have the King's Commissioner in my office. I invited him because I have to say quite frankly that I was somewhat surprised by his criticisms of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, while he, as the King's Commissioner in Brabant, knows that we are, of course, providing extra money for that region and rightly so, up to and including extra money for drug dumping, which they are suffering from in Brabant and Limburg while they are dancing at a party in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-2.u34	Thank you.
