ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u1	The next item is the debate on the Dutch contribution to strengthening maritime safety in the Gulf region. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut as the first speaker. Speaking time is three minutes, and it is one time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has decided to send a Navy vessel to the Gulf region;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw this Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-390]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u3	Mr. Chairman. We do not support this mission to the Strait of Hormuz. I think there are already too many warships and militarisation in the region. The added value of this mission, in addition to everything that already exists and operates, to protect, among other things, commercial shipping, has not been demonstrated to us either. In addition, the second track of the mission, the diplomatic trail, is missing. The Iranian atomic deal, which is very important and supported by the Dutch government, is also put at risk. We must prevent Iran from becoming a second Iraq. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, even though we do not support this mission politically, I naturally wish all the defence personnel sent out a safe mission and a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union attaches great importance to the free passage of shipping. Together with the efforts of this cabinet to de-escalate as much as possible through the diplomatic trail in the conflict, the Christian Union can wholeheartedly support this mission. We, too, wish the military a safe journey and safe return. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u6	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u7	Thank you, Mr President. GroenLinks agrees with the government's decision to participate in the maritime mission in the Strait of Hormuz. The mission should help to guarantee the right to free passage, as enshrined in international maritime law, among other things. That is a direct Dutch interest, but it can also help to prevent further escalation of tension in this fireplace. My group is pleased that the cabinet has said no to a request from the United States. The US approach, as my group firmly believes, leads to an increase in tension and uncertainty, and certainly not to de-escalation. With the French initiative there is a good alternative and this gives diplomacy a better chance. But it's not gonna happen by itself. In the coming period, the diplomatic trail within the coalition of participating countries will be further developed, according to the cabinet. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is waiting for a report on the progress made in January. Mr. Chairman. We also spoke yesterday about the coherence with other missions and a possible Dutch maritime contribution to Sophia, an EU mission in the Mediterranean. I would like to table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU mission Sophia no longer has a maritime component, while that maritime component is of great importance for tackling trafficking in human beings in the Mediterranean Sea;]] [[whereas, as in 2016, the Cabinet is prepared to contribute to Sophia maritimely under certain circumstances;]] [[noting that Italy is blocking a new maritime component for Sophia as long as no structural solution has been found for the deship and redistribution of refugees;]] [[calls on the government at EU level to take the initiative to break this deadlock so that the Sophia mission will contribute better to the fight against trafficking in human beings in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-391]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u8	More like a request to Mr Van Ojik, President. I'm a little late, but I'd like to sign the motion. He asked before, but we couldn't communicate about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u9	I would say: let this be an example for other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u10	I also see Mr Bosman nodding in agreement. Would I be on his behalf, too...? He says no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u11	That is not the case, but we will add your name to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u12	The VVD Group obviously has the opportunity to vote in favour of the motion, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. As mentioned above, GroenLinks agrees with the Dutch contribution to the European mission in the Strait of Hormuz. I wish the women and men who, far from home, are going to carry out this difficult task for our country for six months and for whom I have great respect, a safe journey. I would also like to assure those who remain behind that we realise that they too are making a sacrifice with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u14	Mr. Chairman. We had an important debate on the coherence of the missions and on the proposed EMASOH mission, a Europe-led mission to the Strait of Hormuz. It was a good debate. It was also a debate in which the cabinet made it clear that it had ambitions to ensure that not only the Netherlands but also the European Union, Europe, took its responsibility for geopolitics. I think that is extremely important in these times, when we are being tested like this. Before I come to the mission ahead today, I would like to mention two things for which I am grateful. First of all, I am grateful that the Cabinet will examine the possibility of strengthening UN missions through transport helicopters. I think that's unlikelyly important in the future. I am also grateful to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for making a commitment to see whether this can be done through the efforts of the European Battle Groups. The second concerns Operation Sophia, a mission that combats human trafficking and supports our Mediterranean shipowners. The cabinet has also made it clear that it is sympathetic, but also that a number of issues need to be resolved. For this reason, I supported Mr Van Ojik's motion. Mr. Chairman. Today's mission is the EMASOH mission. I'll make a motion on that before I agree to this mission. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that tensions in the Gulf region have increased significantly as a result of serious incidents of violence;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has an interest in a stable Gulf region and free trade on international waters in the Strait of Hormuz;]] [[whereas the Netherlands and the EU have a geopolitical responsibility to de-escalate the situation there;]] [[whereas EMASOH benefits from broad European support;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to commit itself to the broadest possible political and military support of European Member States for the mission in the Strait of Hormuz,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Bosman, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-392]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u15	Thank you, Madam President. That leaves me, of course, to agree on this mission on behalf of the D66 Group and to wish our men and women who will participate in this mission a successful mission and a safe home navigation. Of course, we wish their family a good but above all carefree time and also a safe sailing home. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u16	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u17	Thank you, Madam President. The CDA welcomes France's initiative to launch a mission in the Gulf of Hormuz to prevent escalation, to be there eyes and ears and to ensure free passage for merchants. If Europe is to play a serious role on the world stage, European countries must also be prepared to participate jointly in missions to keep rival superpowers apart where necessary, to bring them together wherever possible and to try to prevent violence. In addition to the general interest, the mission serves Dutch interests, namely that of the Dutch merchant and that of the many Dutch dredgers present. So the Dutch shipowners also have a great interest in this. That too is an important consideration. Iran's aggressive attitude must not be taken into account. That is what we discussed in the debate. Iran develops ballistic weapons, Iran supports terrorist organisations, attacks oil tankers and brings down drones from the United States. In addition, and certainly not the least important, Iran suppresses its own population, the brave population, which also demonstrates against the regime. The CDA asked ministers a number of questions on issues that weigh heavily on the CDA in order to be able to agree to the mission. Medical care must be properly arranged, but also the ship itself and the crew must be well equipped, especially since we have had great concern about the strength or weakness of the chain at Defense. There must also be good working arrangements with the United States and there must be good procedural arrangements in case violence escalates. The CDA has, in fact, been able to agree to this mission and we wish our women and men, who are going to serve for the country for six months, every success. We also take them and their families with us in our prayers and wish them a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u18	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u19	Mr. Chairman. A Rule 100 debate is always a special debate. In formal terms, the Chamber has no right of assent, but successive Cabinets have approached this type of procedure in such a way that a mission will not be carried out until the Chamber has been heard. I thank the government for what it has done so far to give the Chamber the opportunity to form an independent judgment. Experience has shown that such missions are also discussed within political groups in such a way that each individual member can make that assessment independent. This is important if the debate is to lead to a logical assessment that is to be made during this period. Sending out the frigate, Sr. Ms. Worf, I'm sorry. The Ruyter to the Strait of Hormuz serves a clear purpose. Protecting and guaranteeing free passage is of great importance for the Dutch merchant navy, but also for the international merchant and world trade. In addition, the presence of a frigate is part of being clearly present in support of the diplomatic trail that this cabinet, together with coalition partner and leader of the mission France, has deployed. It is also good to note that Denmark has joined the active commitment in the Strait of Hormuz. It is good that European countries play an active role in de-escalation of tensions in the region and take their role in improving diplomatic relations. In this conviction, the VVD Group can agree to the decision of Sr. Ms. Worf, I'm sorry. Sending the Ruyter to the Strait of Hormuz. We are proud of the Dutch military that we have sent out and are going to broadcast. They contribute to essential safety. However, it is not only the military, but also all those fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, partners and friends, who remain concerned and count and strip away the days until the return. Also to these people, the people at home, who bear the enormous burden of uncertainty, our thoughts go out today. I wish them all the strength and the men and women on board the frigate and all those involved in this mission a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u21	Madam President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats can also support the decision to make a military contribution to strengthening maritime safety in the Gulf region. We wish the soldiers involved all the wisdom and all the good and are also in mind and prayers at the home front. We're hoping for a good mission and a safe home ride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u22	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u23	Thank you, Mr President. After yesterday's debate and exchange of views, the Labour Party can also agree to the decision to make a Dutch contribution to a mission in the Strait of Hormuz, consisting of a military component and a diplomatic component. I thank the Cabinet for its commitment to keep us well informed about the development of that diplomatic component. That's definitely important. Before I wish everyone who will sail the ship a safe voyage, I have one more question for the Secretary of Defense. It is still unclear what the medium- and long-term impact of the De Ruyter's deployment in this mission will be these six months. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence if she can inform the Lower House of this in the progress letter, which I assume will be forthcoming. That is, of course, important. We know that we have learned that no effort is without consequence, but we do need to be informed as much as possible. Hence the request. Then I wish everyone involved in the mission, military and diplomatic, good luck. The people who go to the Strait of Hormuz, I wish for a safe journey and a very safe home. I know that the home front with all of us is waiting for that preserved homecoming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u24	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of Defense spoke yesterday about the fact that the Navy is actually on its gums if this mission continues. That's a situation the PVV doesn't want anyway. We want our navy to be in top condition, at any time, for the sake of the commitment to the Netherlands and NATO. That's a reason for us to say that we don't really like that mission to Hormuz. In addition, the ship that is going there should actually do very little if violence is used, especially by state actors in that region. Then that ship can only defend itself, but not help other ships. Even the French ship may not come to our aid. It seems to me that you're going around there with your hands behind your back and that's not a good situation either. So we have come to the conclusion that we do not want to support this mission. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to allow a naval vessel to participate in the European-led Mission Awareness Strait of Hormuz,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-393]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u26	Yesterday I also talked to the rulers about what if that ship goes there anyway and it gets into trouble. The Secretary of Defense has explained that we all know that the ship can quite bite off. However, the Minister could not deny that it could get into trouble so that such a scenario could exist. At the end of yesterday's AO, the Minister said that she would consider whether there could still be air support for that ship, or whether there could be opportunities for it. I do not know how the rulers live, but I think that the chances of my home burning down by fire are extremely small and perhaps even negligible. However, just to be safe, I bought a fire extinguisher and closed an insurance policy. That's actually what I'm trying to do in case a ship does go there. I just want that air support to be there if that ship needed it anyway. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to send a naval vessel to the Arabian Gulf, the Strait of Hormuz and the Gulf of Oman if no air support is guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-394]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u27	And finally, here's the thing. If the ship goes that way anyway, whether or not with air support, I hope that it all ends well, that the crew will have a safe course, that the people will return safely and that they will not be in danger. And of course I wish them a lot of strength for the period they are away from home. I also wish the family members much strength when their loved ones are in that dangerous region. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u28	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. He is the first to be given the floor by the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the questions put to me and I will deal with the first three motions, since we do not have the last motions yet. That is why Mr Bijleveld will respond to the remaining motions. And she will answer the questions she has been asked. Whether or not they have finally expressed support for the mission, all MPs have said that they are in mind with the men and women on the air, and with their family and friends. That is the particular nature of this debate. For my part, too, I would like to express my appreciation for those words that are rightly expressed. Mrs Karabulut does not support the mission and puts it down in a motion, in part No. 390. I must, of course, advise against this motion, because the cabinet believes that the mission fits in with the Dutch tradition of contributing to peace in the international context. That was explained extensively the day before yesterday. We do so both along the military track, if necessary, and along the diplomatic trail. That is also what this cabinet considers to be its task. That is why we want to participate in this French-led mission. I would like to thank Mr Voordewind for his support on behalf of his group. I would also like to thank Mr Van Ojik for his support. He had it accompanied by a motion, in part No. 391, which dealt specifically with the Sophia mission, which was once again referred to in the letter of association. It calls on the government at EU level to take the initiative to break the deadlock so that the Sophia mission will contribute better to the fight against human trafficking in the future. I indicated in the debate that it was the cabinet's commitment, with JenV's Secretary of State, to create a European migration policy that deals with the whole process. In any event, when there is another Sophia mission, including a ship component, at that time there is a ship and the other conditions have been as they have been in the past, we want to participate in it. If I may explain the motion in such a way that it deals with the broad commitment of the cabinet to a European migration policy, encompassing the whole process, then I can leave it to the Chamber. If the motion is to be read in such a way that we are specifically doing the part of the Sophia mission, regardless of whether there is wider European support for it, then I must advise her not to, because then I will be in the position I outlined yesterday, where a number of countries may think: well, then we also need to be less committed to this broad European solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u30	Mr Van Ojik has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u31	I would like to comment on the choice the Minister has made to me. The purpose of the motion is, on the contrary, to help get that broad approach to asylum and migration in Europe out of this impasse. In fact, I think that is a condition for us to be able to get a maritime component back in Sophia. And I think the Minister agrees with me. So the motion calls on the cabinet to take an initiative on that point. It is therefore explicitly a question of pursuing this broad approach at EU level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u32	I welcome Mr Van Ojik's explanatory statement, because that is how the motion supports policy and I can leave the vote on the motion to the House. I would also like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his support. He was right to point out that I will commit myself to allowing the helicopter deployment for the UN to take place sooner, if possible, from the EU Battlegroup. In addition, he has tabled a motion, in part No. 392, together with Mr Bosman, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind, who invites the cabinet to work for the broadest possible political and military support from the European Member States for this mission. I would also like to leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. I would like to thank Mr Van Helvert for his support. The same applies, of course, to Mr Bosman and Mr Van der Staaij, to Mrs Ploumen and to Mr De Roon. Mr De Roon's motions have, I hope, been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u34	Then Mr Bijleveld will go into that. I hope I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The two motions tabled by Mr De Roon are indeed the motions on items Nos. 393 and 394. I would also like to thank the Members of your Chamber for the broad support that has been expressed. I think a few more questions have been asked to me. Mr Van Helvert once again talked about the adequate presence of medical care. That's considered very important by the CDA. I have explained in detail in the AO how this is done, both on the ship, with nurses and a doctor, and through the agreements that one can end up in a hospital on shore. I have indicated that we will update you on the arrangements we have made with several hospitals before the ship goes on air and sails. We will also indicate how we see a number of things in the region. Mrs Ploumen had once again asked the question about readiness, which she put in the debate yesterday. I went into that in the AO. I just want to make it clear that when it comes to Sr. Ms. Worf, I'm sorry. De Ruyter, this has no impact on the coming year, because after six months this ship would go into maintenance anyway. That's planned maintenance for this ship. It's a lot of maintenance. In that sense, the ship would not sail after that six months, and we would not have used it either. It doesn't change that. I've indicated to you how we're going to proceed in a planned manner, if anything should happen to this ship. But this ship is fully equipped to the task at stake. Then there are Mr De Roon's motions from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u37	A brief question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a brief question. I asked the Minister yesterday, and again today, with a view to a possible extension of the mission. Then, of course, there will be a new trade-off. We all understand that, but of course we want to have some insight into the question as to which elements this consideration would contain. Because that also has consequences for the other missions. That is why I am holding up the request for a progress report or some other form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u39	Sorry, Chairman. I should have added that, because I also said that we will indicate how it works. We have readiness reports, which are also discussed. This mission is basically for one year; we discussed it yesterday in the debate. That is what we are asking for the mandate for. We talked about that. That's why we're delivering this frigate for the first six months. After that, this frigate needs to be maintained. For the period after that, we must always look again and weigh again on the basis of the military advice that is available, also looking at what lies ahead. Motions have also been tabled for Sophia, for example, of which my colleague Mr Blok has just given an assessment. We must all take this into account widely, but then we must also have an understanding, and you too, of what we can deliver. Well, we'll be sure to report that. I would have stayed with the motion in part no. 393 by Mr De Roon of the PVV Group. He does not ask for a Navy ship to participate in this European, in this case French, guided mission. I would advise against this motion. We think this is very important. Mr De Roon has also said, and now I come to the motion on item No. 394, that air support should be guaranteed before the ship goes out. I would also advise against this motion. I indicated in the debate that this is an air defence and command frigate that can defend itself well, and the whole connection too, before that it also has the weaponry............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In view of the security situation in the region, we do not consider it necessary to have more presence. There are several weapon systems that allow this frigate to defend itself and help others. It is too far-reaching to go into Mr De Roon's debate, but it is possible to support others in the vicinity on the basis of the mandate. I would advise against this motion because we do not consider it necessary. It remains that I will honour the commitment I made in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u40	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-48.u41	We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight. I agree with all the speakers: our men and women who are sent out wish for a safe mission and a safe homecoming.
