ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Foreign Affairs Council (VAO). The AO took place on the 16th. That was done at the time by Minister Blok, but I understand that he is out of port. That is why we have Minister Kaag here today. Thank you for joining us. Welcome aboard. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber, four of whom, if I take a quick look at it, are going to speak. The first is Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group. The floor is up to her. She has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I immediately proceed to read my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey appears to be planning to re-invade the north of Syria in a military capacity;]] [[considers that this is unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort, preferably together with like-minded other EU or NATO countries, to refrain from a military raid in northern Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United States is about to denounce the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Convention (INF Convention);]] [[considers that the possibility of resolving disputes relating to compliance with the INF Convention is not exhausted;]] [[calls on the Government, preferably with like-minded other European countries, to call on the United States not to denounce this Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1946]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1947]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u3	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the US is about to terminate the INF Convention;]] [[Whereas the termination of the INF Convention could lead to US nuclear missiles being placed on European soil;]] [[states that American nuclear missiles are not welcome in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1948]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister who is here to replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We all heard that Ans Boersma, a Dutch journalist working at Het FD, was expelled by Turkey yesterday. Now we all know that democracy, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are not in safe hands in Turkey. This story has taken a curious turn, because now it appears that this has happened, partly on the basis of information provided by the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Everyone who knows the situation knows that when you provide information about persons, who are not in safe hands in Turkey, especially as regards journalists. I would therefore like to know exactly what has happened here, how it has happened that the Netherlands has apparently cooperated and what steps the government is going to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u5	For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that a large number of written questions have also been put by a number of Members of Parliament on this subject. I call Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I agree with the questions put by Mr Karabulut when it comes to Ans Boersma. Perhaps the Minister, as a replacement for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, could say something about providing that information to the Turkish authorities. Mr. Chairman. In the AO RBZ, Foreign Affairs Council, we discussed the Turkish threat to invade Northern Syria, either by taking up a buffer or by a frontal attack on the Kurds. That's what we've been exchanging. The Minister also said in that debate that the message would be from him to call on colleagues to leave the Kurds alive. The Christian Union thought that perhaps we could formulate something else to send a clear message. That's why I'm filing the next motion. That is a bit in line with Mr Karabulut's motion on item No. 1946. So we're gonna see how it's gonna land. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Turkish Government has announced its intention to take military action in Northern Syria against the SDF;]] [[Whereas the SDF is an ally in the fight against ISIS;]] [[calls on the Government, together with France and the United Kingdom, to seek support within the Foreign Affairs Council for a call to Turkey not to invade Northern Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Koopmans and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1949]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. Mr Van Ojik has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u9	I have a question for Mr Voordewind about this motion, because I do not have a very sharp one, because it went rather quickly, which is the difference between his motion and Mrs Karabulut's motion, which was co-signed by GroenLinks and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u10	Then we should put them next to each other to see exactly what the differences are. I should also like to take a look at Mrs Karabulut's motion. Maybe Mrs. Karabulut can look at mine. But I'm sure we have the same intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u11	If you want to give a signal, and we want to do so in this debate, it is always stronger to do so together, instead of having a motion from the opposition and a motion from the coalition. Mr Voordewind clearly cannot explain immediately what the difference is between his motion and the motion that Mrs Karabulut has already tabled. That is why I would like to call on him to support Mrs Karabulut's motion, Mrs Ploumen's motion and myself, together with the co-rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u12	I will first listen to the reaction of the cabinet, but most likely the intention of both motions is exactly the same. The signal will therefore be exactly the same. So we're gonna have to see how we're gonna land it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you. You can also arrange this kind of thing with each other in advance, I suggest just in terms of efficiency. It's just a small point I'm bringing in. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Koopmans waived their speaking time, so that Mr Voordewind was immediately the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. I'll give the Minister the floor in a minute. Can she respond to the motions yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u14	One more minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u15	One minute. Then I'll suspend for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u16	The Minister has the floor. I hope to be able to do the vote a little earlier than at 6.30 p.m., I say to people like the group secretaries and administrative secretaries. It would be nice if we could do that a little sooner. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be short. I'd like the karabulut c.s. motion. in piece No. 1946 and the Voordewind c.s. motion in piece No. 1949 together. As far as the cabinet is concerned, intention and appeal are the same. Our suggestion is that the motions do not just support the current policy. I would like to mention the many steps that Minister Blok has already taken in the various governments. We're gonna go through with this. The cabinet takes over both motions, provided they both persist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u18	Then I have to ask if there is any objection to that. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u19	Then the Karabulut motion in part No. 1947. The cabinet comes out to dissuade it. The reasoning is as follows. The INF Convention is of course very important. The preservation must be credible. As far as we are concerned, there can be no unilateral compliance. That would only make us more unsafe. We are still doing everything we can, together with the United States, to persuade Russia to actually comply with the INF Convention. If Russia continues its violations, as we estimate, this cannot be accepted indefinitely. That's the basis for dissuading the cabinet's motion. Then I come to the Karabulut motion on part No. 1948. As far as the cabinet is concerned, this issue has not yet been raised. We are still focusing, as I have just appointed, on the preservation of the Treaty itself. In previous conversations, Mattis at the time, still in office, indicated that the US had no plans to station rockets in Europe. This question has not yet been addressed to the cabinet. That's the basis for dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u20	Then Mrs Karabulut, briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u21	I would like to know from the Minister what the Netherlands is doing at the moment to ensure that the obligations imposed by the Treaty are respected. To give you an example: this morning an article in The Guardian said that the Russians are also accusing the Americans of non-compliance. They have also offered: come, you may inspect the missiles you say do not comply with the treaty. The U.S. is refusing. It's in an impasse. My question is: what action is the government taking to get out of here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u22	In generic terms, there are a number of diplomatic contacts. In NATO but also bilaterally, we attach great importance to the continuation or resumption of the dialogue between the US and Russia. I cannot go into the article in The Guardian that an offer of a visit has not been accepted. I cannot comment on that at the moment. But we are all committed to continuing the dialogue. But there's a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u23	In conclusion, this deadline is almost due to expire on 1 February. Could the Minister undertake to inform the Chamber one week before that deadline of the state of play regarding the steps it is taking up to that time? Then I'd like to hold both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u24	I do not know if there are any more AOs in which Minister Blok is speaking in this Chamber. Then that seems to me an appropriate moment to give an update. That's up to Minister Blok. The NATO-Russia Council is also such a moment. There is still time, but there are plenty of AOs I believe can be created in that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u25	Then I would like to hear from Mrs Karabulut officially that she is withdrawing her motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u26	No, Mr President, correction: I would ask you to hold both motions. The other motions have been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u27	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motions (11501-02, Nos. 1947 and 1948). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u28	Then I conclude that we are not going to vote and that anyone who is now waiting for the study can go home. Mrs. Karabulut still?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u29	I have asked a number of questions about the expulsion of Mrs Boersma from Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u30	I would like to say a few words in the microphone, but now even louder: there are no votes. So there are no votes! For Mr Sjoerdsma I am going to shout it even louder, and that also gives Mrs Kaag time to think about answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can go right through. It wasn't thinking, it was just moving my papers around. I think much has already been said about the background to the arrest and expulsion of the Dutch journalist. It is now known what reason has been given for the expulsion of the person concerned. As Minister Grapperhaus has also made very clear, publicly and in a prior AO, the reason for expulsion has to do with the person and not with her professional activities or duties. The Public Prosecutor's Office has confirmed that they wish to interrogate the persons concerned in connection with an ongoing investigation. In this case, therefore, I think we should separate this from the enormous pressure that is naturally placed in Turkey itself on freedom of expression and on journalists. That is another theme, which we from the Netherlands of course look very much at, are involved in and ask attention to. In this case, the Dutch person has nothing to do with her journalistic practice. It was Mrs Karabulut's question whether information from the Dutch government is being shared. There has always been information exchange or cooperation between the Netherlands and Turkey through judicial channels. This runs along police lines or along the D.A.'s roads, and I can't make any further statements from the State Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u32	I hear the Minister say that there has been an exchange between the Netherlands and Turkey. She cannot go into that further; I understand that. But how did the exchange take place within the Netherlands? I believe it has been reported that the Dutch Consul General was actively involved yesterday to prevent the journalist from leaving the country. I now understand from the prosecution and from Minister Grapperhaus that there is a reason why the Netherlands apparently felt that Turkey should be alert. So the Netherlands does talk to Turkey but the services do not talk to Foreign Affairs. If these conclusions are justified, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u33	I understand that that image could indeed come from the coverage. There are a number of steps. The information is shared along what is called "the usual channels." In any case, they have a process of cooperation: the services or the Public Prosecutor's Office by police means. It is true that the canal can also walk through the embassy, but it doesn't have to. They're police channels or judicial channels. As far as the procedure and the timeline are concerned, so to speak, we are now looking at who knew what at what point to have clarification about it themselves. But it is true that these channels, the so-called usual channels, also run their own way. I can, of course, well imagine that it is the image that one would expect an embassy to have the overall picture. Normally, the Secretary of State, and therefore the Embassy, is not in principle part of this type of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u34	And "BZ" stands, I say for the people at home, for the State Department. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u35	All the understanding that not all the details of an investigation can now be made public, but the message has spooked us all, also of course because of the context. Turkey is the world's champion in locking up journalists and has a very hostile attitude to the freedom of the press. Many parties have asked questions about this together. Then let me ask this Minister two questions. The first is whether these questions can be answered as soon as possible. They are addressed to Minister Blok and Minister Grapperhaus. But I also ask whether the investigation that this minister is talking about, and who knew what would happen when he could come to the Chamber, because I think that the Chamber would like to make one thing quite clear, namely that there is no need for journalists to get into trouble unnecessarily. I think we all think that's improbably important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u36	First of all, I can of course confirm or reaffirm that freedom of the press is a great asset and an important issue for the Netherlands. The Dutch commitment to the issues in Turkey is also very clear. This should not be seen differently from the situation that has arisen today. In terms of understanding what we know about details, I do not want to anticipate the answers to the questions that are currently being worked on, nor do I want to anticipate consultations with Minister Grapperhaus or the Public Prosecutor on what can be shared and what not. So I'm making a generic commitment, but I can't make a commitment as far as the degree of detail is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u37	Finally. Can the Minister tell us when we can receive that timeline of the steps taken? Can the Minister imagine that at the moment a lot of journalists, whether or not they write about Turkey or even live there, feel extremely unsafe? Can the Minister tell us today how the journalist concerned knew nothing about it? Is the D.A., does the Minister intend to clarify for her person as soon as possible? And can she give an appreciation of this whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u38	I'll start with the last one. I don't think it's up to the State Department to clarify a procedure that's going on at the D.A.'s office. That is an internal Dutch matter. That is a separate process, which lies with the Ministry of Justice and, of course, with the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is right there and of course it is also up to the journalist herself to seek clarification on her own matter. With regard to possible future consequences, the Netherlands always provides assistance at consular level and provides diplomatic support and so on. But I don't think there's any way to make a commitment, because at the moment, that issue is in the Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the issue of freedom of the press, the fear and concerns that indeed live with the press, whether they are Turkish journalists who are, of course, under a lot of pressure, or Dutch journalists who, among other things, want to report on Turkey: we can understand that concern very well and we continue to look very critically at it. By "critical," I mean towards countries where freedom of the press is under enormous pressure, but we provide care and support to journalists where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u39	I'd have asked for an appreciation, too. What did the State Department advise the state attorney's office? The person concerned is not suspected of terrorism. In that sense, that's already falling off. Then you can say: we cannot talk about it in public and so on. Of course, the Public Prosecutor also knows how Turkey deals with journalists and possibly with this kind of sensitive information. So my question is: what is going on here, and perhaps you have been informed about it in a different way? Because of course they could have contacted her and said: gosh, would you like to come to the Netherlands so that we can carry out that research? Or has this just been carelessness?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u40	I think that, pending internal inquiries, I should like to mention it, because research is a big word, and the timetable cannot answer that. I recognise the question and I can also endorse the concerns about it, but I cannot give a factual answer to it. That would be unwise, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u42	Perhaps a short question after all, because I would naturally like to wait for the outcome of the question, as the Minister calls it. But perhaps in fact: can the Minister confirm what was in the media, namely that yesterday both the Dutch consulate in Istanbul and later the Dutch embassy in Ankara made an effort to prevent the expulsion of this journalist to the Netherlands? Is that really true? Aside from the question of who knew what at the time. Is that really true? It is in the Dutch media that this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u43	I think it is more purer at the moment, pending the report back and the answer to the questions, that we say: the embassy was informed and has provided assistance at consular level. After that, of course, the embassy also requested an interview. The ambassador received this and asked for clarification on the nature of the case. If necessary, the expulsion has also been requested not to take place, on the basis of the information available at the time. In the meantime, of course, the process has gone much faster and differently. That is why, of course, we are sitting here asking ourselves how the judicial trails are going in relation to the procedures in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not normally involved and which it does not have any information about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u44	Finishing, just to be sure. In fact, is it true, if I listen to the Minister's first part of his reply correctly, that the embassy was working in this way for this Dutch journalist yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u45	Yeah, based on the information back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u46	Clear. Thank you. Thanks to the Minister. Thank you for joining us today. I'm gonna suspend to the half-hour clock and then we're gonna talk about opportunity inequality in education, which is also important. But so much for this debate, which will therefore not get a vote.
