ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the letter from the Government 31936, paragraph I, which provides for the application of the National Coordination Scheme for the project military radar station Herwijnen. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Defence back to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u3	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Chairman. In our view, the Secretary of State has adequately answered the questions that the Group of the Forum for Democracy still had. This will enable us to agree to the proposed decision of the Secretary of State under the conditions of sound and sound implementation of the State Coordination Regulation. Furthermore, our group welcomes the fact that this decision will make the installation of new windmills which we disliked in the region around Herwijnen more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. I call Mr Janssen. Excuse me, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u5	I am curious to see what Mr Dessing means by what he calls'successful and careful implementation' of the state coordination regime. Surely the RCR is nothing but that the government takes the place of the local government? What is "good and careful" about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u6	Then I guess I'll have to repeat my conclusion from yesterday. Of course, the state coordination regime is a solid tool, so you will not have to use it. But in the national interest we are in favour, under the conditions mentioned. We assume that the Secretary of State will apply the scheme carefully, that the radiation level will remain below the maximum permitted value and that it will communicate well with residents about this scheme. Those are the conditions I am referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u7	That's interesting, but it has nothing to do with my question. My question was this. The National Coordination Regulation merely states that the role normally performed by B and W is now carried out by the Government. Furthermore, everything remains the same, including the zoning procedure. Everything stays the same, the only thing that changes is who does. So what does Mr Dessing mean by that? It's just one doll instead of the other, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u8	I can only say something about the implementation of the national coordination scheme itself. The fact is that the state coordination system is implemented by the government, that local authority is indeed overruled and that it is a heavy tool, but it must be done very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u9	I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. There are now studies that could have been carried out much earlier and should have been carried out. I have another question for the Secretary of State regarding the research into the radiation that is being carried out. Is TNO investigating the radiation effects based on the data provided by the manufacturer of the radar? If so, will TNO investigate whether those data as provided by the manufacturer are valid? This is crucial in the decision on the admissibility of the radar station. That also seems to me to be the angel in the worries that live among residents. Without validating these manufacturer data, the trust of the residents in the process will never be regained. I therefore ask the Secretary of State for a clear 'yes' in the form of a commitment. Otherwise, I will table a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Putting aside local democracy is a last resort, which is now being used as an administrative aid construct to restore a dramatic process. The SP remains of the opinion that the necessary investigations should first be completed, which shows that Herwijnen is the only location where radar can be placed. Only then, after a transparent balance of facts and interests, can you take the step to intervene from the top in local democracy. Mr. Chairman. This is the first time the Ministry of Defence has applied the State Coordination Regulation, as we heard yesterday from the Secretary of State. The state coordination regime requires a high degree of administrative sensitivity and flexibility. Without these qualities, it will be a time-consuming legal battle. That's exactly what the Secretary of State says he doesn't have, time. I said administrative sensitivity and flexibility. Unfortunately, so far, the process has not shown that the Ministry has the power to do so. In hospitals, risky operations should not be carried out if there is no experience of those operations and if they are not carried out sufficiently. Perhaps it is time to consider whether that would be a good way forward. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion. The National Coordination Regulation is not an administrative military practice area. In the opinion of the SP, the current proposal to introduce the National Coordination Scheme is unabated, unnecessary and therefore undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the first-term questions. There are some points that have been clarified, but there are still some questions. It is about setting aside local democracy for the benefit of a national interest. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment that the current investigations take into account the concerns of the residents of Herwijnen, including the doubt as to whether the radar will remain below 100 kilowatts even at peak load and whether the radar will be placed in the appropriate environmental category. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment that peak loads of radars will be included in the ongoing investigation. I do have one more question about it. It came up yesterday. This is the question of whether the Secretary of State can also undertake to do so with simultaneous peak taxes. Are they included in the ongoing investigation? I would also ask the Secretary of State if, if research would indicate that the radar cannot be placed in Herwijnen, national security is at stake. That is possible, including in the state coordination scheme. In that case, the availability of another location could take some time. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the time and money needed to obtain an alternative location will not be used as an argument to establish that there is no such alternative location? This would mean that research into alternative locations is simply a pacifier. The Secretary of State has said on several occasions that there is no kick in the head until the investigations have shown that the placement of the radar can only take place in Herwijnen and that there are no health risks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send not only the research results, but also the description of the process of communicating with the residents fully and immediately to both Chambers, so that the First Chamber may also decide in due course to enter into a debate with the Secretary of State. I have one more question about that. The Secretary of State has said that the residents are involved in the investigations, including in the investigation of alternative locations. What residents are they? Including those from the alternate locations? I'd like to hear answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. If one thing became clear last night, it is that the procedure has so far been messy, careless and not transparent throughout the whole dossier. For some colleagues, this is a reason to say: let us, for God's sake, approve this requested state coordination system, because it will at least have to follow strict procedures. It is suggested, among other things, by Mr Rietkerk and this suggestion was thankfully embraced by the Secretary of State for describing precisely the steps to be taken in the Wro or in the explanatory statement. But that's wrong. The Wro and the explanatory statement merely say that the minister takes the place of the municipal or provincial government. There is nothing about special rules that apply to a state coordination scheme and do not apply to an ordinary zoning procedure. There is therefore no additional security for citizens in a state coordination scheme. The only thing we have to deal with is the Empire and not the city anymore. I think it's good to be honest about that. I have one more question for clarification. It is suggested that permits for wind farms in Flevoland and the like can only be issued after our agreement. But that's bullshit, isn't it? Those permits await other steps in the process, such as a zoning change in New Milligen. And this is all awaiting the outcome of the research on alternatives and the study on cumulation. Those investigations have to be done one way or the other, don't they? So there is no delay at all if we wait with our consent for the results to be on the table. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The second thing that became clear is that those who advocated the great importance of national security and now wind farms, even when they were never so enthusiastic about it. Opponents do so because of constitutional objections to the procedure. The end does not justify all means. In my group's view, the latter would have to weigh heavily in the assessment here. Mrs Moonen and others felt that we should not imitate the House of Representatives and I am happy to agree with her. But that means that we should not make the political opportunity leading, as it seemed to do for a moment, but that we should look at these matters of principle. Because then the First Chamber has added value. The relationship between the various authorities is governed by state law. A number of groups rely on the idea that if a local government does not want to take a decision, the government can take it over. I argued that the local government did decide something, namely: no. Now I heard Mr Rietkerk refer to the core principles of his party and mention spread responsibility: the update of what used to be called subsidiarity, at least in the Catholic version. A fine thought, which says that decisions and responsibilities should be invested as close to the people as possible. Unfortunately, I heard him immediately sacrifice them again for the purpose. But looking at state-law relationships and pure relationships between government and citizens and between the different levels of government also means something if you are unhappy with the outcome. But there's more to it, and it hasn't been named yet. There is never a state coordination regime in general. It only regulates that the government takes over the direction of a specific local government, in this case the municipality of West-Betuwe. That means that you only get that decision when you know that only that particular municipality is eligible, and that is not the case now. The Secretary of State also says she'll withdraw a few things if there's another location coming out. However, if the principal location is not yet known, then the main issue is not yet known which local authority is involved and so it is also impossible, as a matter of principle, to proceed to a state coordination scheme. That affects the rule of law considerations. The public authorities must be bound by the law, citizens must be able to ensure that the procedures are followed properly and carefully in terms of content and that there are no circular reasonings. There are some here. The procedure has to be accepted because the investigations will show that careful consideration has been made leading to Herwijnen. But we don't know the outcome yet and so we don't know whether there was a careful consideration. Mr. Chairman. With all the inconvenience, we'll have to vote in the end. It will be difficult for my group to agree, given the fog and the quicksand that we are still in. I'll finish with two questions. The first: will the Secretary of State undertake that all questions of citizens in so far as they do not concern personal subjects will be published on the website this week, with an answer or a reference to reply at a later stage? That seems to me to be the minimum of transparency. The fact that there are now only questions of 21 October and that everything that happened after that has disappeared into a hole is extremely sad. Last night, the Secretary of State and after that we spoke to a number of citizens from Herwijnen, some of whom indicated that their questions had not been answered. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to say that all the e-mails that are there called them a number of 26, but I'm also hearing other numbers of o-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y. The second question is whether the Secretary of State will undertake that we will get her reasoning as to why it should be in the area around West-Betuwe, in or around the municipality of.................................................................... on paper...................................................................................................................................................................... The investigation is almost complete, we understand, so it should be possible to explain why the whole of the South Netherlands only left the stamp around West Betuwe. I would ask her to inform us of this by letter before the vote. Without this explanation, as a Chamber, we cannot seriously consider whether this intervention in the local government is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. To the second accurate. I call Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the Secretary of State gave clear answers last night and a clear explanation. It has made it clear that there is a national interest and that there is also the necessary speed. With this in mind, with the back door created by the House of Representatives regarding the location and with the commitment made by the Secretary of State at Mrs Moonen's request to the First Chamber to inform us about the state of affairs, so that we can keep a finger on the wrist, we agree with the RCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. Through you, we discussed last night with the Secretary of State about her bumps in the question of'rewinning military radarstation'. Her arrangement in the first term confirms once again that she operates with a rigid tunnel vision and with regentesque blinders. Our group GO called on the Secretary of State to move quickly and decisively towards finding an alternative location for the radar station. The Secretary of State doesn't even have to go far for that. Sometimes the answer to a difficult issue is so close to your nose that you simply look over it. The Secretary of State replied in the negative to my question as to whether she saw the possibility of using the radar location of the KNMI in Herwijnen, which is now being used for the shower radar, for the SMART-L-Radar. "No, we can't begin to do that," the Secretary of State immediately replied with the regentesque reflex so characteristic for her. In Herwijnen there are legitimate concerns about the accumulation effects of the intended military radar and the KNMI radar, especially if both transmit at the same time at peak power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u19	Yesterday during the maiden speech I wanted to make a comment about it. I have some objections to Mr De Vries' use of words. I think we're supposed to be dealing with each other in this First Chamber in some way. I'd like to make that point anyway. I have another question for Mr De Vries on the KNMI radar. How real is it now to demand a KNMI radar that has just been installed and to replace it with a new radar from the Defense Department, also in view of the costs involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u20	You are talking right now about claiming, but what we are proposing is simply making a trade. It's not that complicated. There is currently a radar location in Nieuw Milligen and there is a radar location in Herwijnen. So if that's how you see it, then you can work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u21	I understand that if you look at it from a distance, you can say, "We'll switch that." But in the end, this leads to massive capital destruction at the site of the KNMI radar. That is a huge disinvestment, apart from the time it takes. So I do not think this is a real option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u22	I'm gonna follow up on my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u23	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u24	It characterizes the Secretary of State that she didn't really appreciate our constructive tip, but immediately dropped it with: can't. Because the solution to this complex matter could be found in an intelligent exchange between the KNMI and the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u25	I have not so much a question for Mr De Vries as a comment on Mr Arbouw's comment on language. A Member of Parliament is about his own words and I did not see anything offensive in that. I would like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, ma'am. Please continue your argument, Mr. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u27	Move the KNMI Shower radar to the existing defence radar location in Nieuw Milligen and install the new SMART-L-Radar at the current KNMI location in Herwijnen. We also understand that the windmill problem for the defence radar in Nieuw-Miligen does not occur if the KNMI shower radar would be placed at that location. That has to do with the technical properties of the shower radar. The KNMI belongs to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State of Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, also a VVD party member of the State Secretary. So you would think that something like this should be relatively quick and convenient to arrange. The Group of the European People's Party therefore believes that such a radar exchange between Defence and the KNMI should be seriously investigated rather than immediately resorting to the means of national coordination. That is why we are tabling the next practical and constructive motion. The President shall: Mr De Vries, Mr Otten and Mr Rookmaker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the planned placement of the military SMART-L radar in Herwijnen at its current location has caused great turmoil and unrest in the local community of Herwijnen;]] [[noting that all parties in the municipal council of West Betuwe voted unanimously against granting the environmental permit required for this radar;]] [[Whereas the intended defence radar may have cumulative effects with the existing KNMI radar which may entail additional harmful health effects;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a radar exchange whereby the currently existing KNMI radar in Herwijnen is transferred to the Defense Location in Nieuw-Miligen and the intended SMART-L radar is placed in the current KNMI radar location in Herwijnen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply last night. As you can tell from my first term yesterday, the VVD was already convinced that it is important to start the National Coordination Scheme quickly now. The answer given by the Secretary of State has further strengthened us in the view that much has already been done to restore the communication and transparency of the process and thus regain confidence. The VVD also welcomes the Secretary of State's commitment to share the results of the investigations with both chambers, because there is some suspicion and doubt, not only in Herwijnen. But I have already noticed that from the contribution of colleagues here in this Chamber. I have a few comments to make on this, because I believe that there must be very serious considerations when those results of the investigations have been sent to the two Chambers, about which we shall have another debate here in the First Chamber. The First Chamber should above all remain in its own role and not sit in the seat of the Second Chamber and certainly not of the directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. I call Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. I think this is an important point when it comes to the question of what is actually the task and role of the First Chamber. That also goes beyond this debate. I think we should look out in this Chamber and Mr Arbouw also warned about the mores here in order to hang the discussion on what the role of the First Chamber is to political opportunity. I really think that's a risk. We may or may not consider certain things of interest. It is especially important that we ask the right questions in the First Chamber. The right questions relate, for example, to the rule of law and the rule of law, issues which I would like to address. They relate to feasibility, et cetera, et cetera. But the question of legitimacy is perhaps the most important one here. This means that a debate on issues that are going on for a long time and on proposals that affect legitimacy and the rule of law can, by definition, fit on the agenda here, even if Mr Arbouw does not have the political opportunity to do so. So I would suggest that we do not take that argument too easily, but especially look at things on their merits and then fly it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thanks to Mr Ganzevoort for his input, but I do not entirely agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u32	I suggest that we do not have a debate on this now. I don't hear a question. I now give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. On the same point. Of course, we should not do cases that should be dealt with earlier in the House of Representatives. But as Mr Ganzevoort said, this Chamber must pay particular attention to the rule of law. This is the issue of abolishing local democracy, as I mentioned it, because of a greater importance. It is not for nothing that the First Chamber and the Second Chamber should agree to the application of the National Coordination Regulation, because this is at stake. If such questions could be raised again in the follow-up to the trial, then surely the First Chamber is fully entitled, and actually forced, to discuss them, if that kind of matter of law, the relationship between levels of government, is at stake? So my question is: does Mr Arbouw agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you for your question, because then I can answer. Of course, it is not a political opportunity. In the end, what matters is precisely that state of law and the question of whether the instrument, as the law states, is being used correctly. I fully agree with that. What matters to me is this. At the moment when the results of the investigations are on the table, this should not become a sort of hook in order to finally have a political debate that does not really belong here in the First Chamber. That was my point. The reason for starting a state coordination scheme is, in my view, sufficiently substantiated in yesterday's debate and also in the response by the Secretary of State. The law states quite clearly that if a municipality does not cooperate in the procedure in this case, this was the case with the municipality of Lingewaal, the State can seize the state coordination regime. The legislator has provided for this. That is explained very clearly. This procedure can be followed if a result is to be achieved quickly because of the national interest. That procedure will be followed carefully. The research results will be on the table soon. I say that there must be very serious considerations for a debate. When it comes to constitutional considerations, we can of course speak. But if it's just about whether or not the results turn out right, then I think we should look after our count as the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr Koole one last time on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u36	I am glad that Mr Arbouw says the latter. He said just before that we should not have a political debate on this. Debates on constitutional matters are indeed political debates and they belong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u37	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you. Mr Rietkerk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State for her answers to the questions we have asked. The CDA Group is convinced that the legal guarantees for residents such as participation, opinion and appeal to the courts are better served by applying the national coordination regime than without a spatial procedure such as today. Now there's all this confusion. I am also looking at Mr Ganzevoort. The Secretary of State gave a positive response to our request to involve the inhabitants at the stage of the preliminary draft. In it, this State Secretary goes beyond what is necessary under the Regional Planning Act. Mr Ganzevoort made a suggestion to the CDA Group. We would have said that the procedure of the Regional Planning Act is different from that of a zoning plan. I didn't suggest that. I have said and I have also been able to convince you that there is a national interest. This is stated in the Explanatory Memorandum (28916, No. 3, page 52). That is the first question that we, as the First Chamber, have to answer in order to tackle the application of the national coordination system. The second question is as follows: If a municipality still wants to move its own sites, as a group suggests, or to investigate alternatives, then it will do so itself. The municipality of West Betuwe has said: we do not want that. They said no. Two criteria in terms of legal powers are then met. That is the position of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u40	It is not a question of whether there is a national interest. We're not having a discussion about that. That's not the point. Mr Rietkerk says that there are better guarantees with a state coordination regime. He says at the same time that the normal zoning procedure is followed, only by another actor. So there are no better guarantees for the citizen. I can't see what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u41	I said better than now in the vacuum. The municipality takes no responsibility for a zoning procedure. She doesn't want that. So now we're in a vacuum. What's going on? There's all these e-mails going back and forth to the DOD, to us, to you, to who I know. The question then arises as to whether there is a national interest at stake. The city doesn't want to. The national coordination system is now better than the current vague situation, including for residents, because it will allow residents to react to a walk-in evening and to a view. They can even go to the judge. That's an orderly spatial procedure. As a result of our question, the Secretary of State goes even further on one point. In a preliminary draft, you must formally only take the municipality, the water boards and the provinces. The Secretary of State promised last night that she would also involve the residents. That goes even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr. Ganzevoort, one last brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u43	That's good, but that's not what it's about. There's no administrative vacuum. There's an administrative no from the local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u44	It's not that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u45	I'm allowed to finish for a moment, very briefly, but I'm allowed to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u47	There's no administrative vacuum. As long as the local government says no and that is not overruled, there is simply complete clarity. Mr Rietkerk should not pretend that there is a vacuum that needs to be solved. There isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u48	There is a national interest. All the groups I have heard say that. You say it on behalf of GroenLinks, and so does the PvdA. There is no discussion about national interest. National security is at stake. If the national interest is at stake, I have just mentioned the explanatory memorandum, which is an argument for applying the national coordination regime. Actually, this is an assignment that follows from the Spatial Planning Act. That's what I've been trying to say. The National Coordination Scheme thus ensures...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u49	You're running out of time, actually. The interruptions have been added. You've got two minutes of follow-up. If you'd like to finish briefly, please. Then we go to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u50	I left four minutes yesterday. Actually, I'd like to have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u51	You have registered for this period for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u52	Plus the minutes I left, I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u53	That's not how it works. You have registered for two minutes and you have now exceeded that time. If you'd like to finish, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. We dealt with the guarantees yesterday. That's four. I also mention the monitoring of legal standards when the radar is placed. If this is not met, the radar will be stopped. Before the kick enters the ground, the Lower House can check the government's use of the four guarantees. With these guarantees and the stated role of the House of Representatives, I can propose to the CDA-First parliamentary group that they agree to the decision to apply the National Coordination Scheme Herwijnen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mr Rietkerk said a few times in his speech that we are now in a kind of vacuum and that this state coordination regime is necessary to ensure that the process is conducted carefully. Is he saying that the process has been careless so far, because there is no state coordination regulation yet? Are the ongoing investigations so far careless? Yesterday, in reply to my question, the Secretary of State stressed that the process has so far been completely careful and that there is no need for the state coordination system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u56	I heard the Secretary of State say yesterday that the investigations have begun in order not to waste any time. You have heard me say that the lodging of a formal opinion and formal appeal to the courts are only possible if the procedure under the Land Planning Act is followed. That is the state coordination scheme in this case. That's why we're in a vacuum right now. The residents can't make a point of view. They can respond via e-mails and then we are told that they are not responding. On behalf of the CDA Group, I am pleased that there will be a reaction paper from the Cabinet on the views with a per capita response that has responded. The House of Representatives can then see in order how these reactions are dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u57	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u58	Does Mr Rietkerk believe that the process has been careless so far, as the state coordination regime has not yet started?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u59	There are emails going to the department now. We hear that some of those e-mails aren't being answered, but we can't verify that. I don't think that's right. I urge you to do this more carefully. This can be done better by means of the procedure for this, the national coordination system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Moonen. She signed up for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u61	First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying last night. The D66 Group remains of the opinion that the process so far certainly does not deserve a beauty prize. Unfortunately, a lot of valuable time has been lost, and it is a pity that the Defense Department has not looked for alternative locations before. The Secretary of State didn't reflect much on that. We would have found it appropriate if the Defense Department admits it. That is why we have entered the process we are now in. The D66 Group has listened carefully to the answers of the Secretary of State and takes them into account in the further consideration. For our group, the most important thing now is for residents to be carefully involved in the process. The D66 group is concerned with the proper reception of signals from the region. We are grateful that the Secretary of State made a commitment to a letter in the debate. This letter with the results of all investigations is sent simultaneously to the Second and First Chambers. That letter describes how the Ministry of Defence dealt with the reactions of the residents. This involves proposals from residents for alternative locations as well as other reactions from residents to the process so far. That letter can then involve the First and Second Chambers in the question of whether or not they want a debate with the Secretary of State. All this can happen before one kick hits the ground. This is also important for D66, because we want to distinguish between an orderly preparation of the process and a decision to place it. Finally. I await the response of the Secretary of State before going to the D66 Group with an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. Mr Koffeman has registered and I see Mrs Teunissen standing up. I think she's going to perform instead of Mr Koffeman. I see her kissing yes, so that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, on behalf of my colleague Mr Koffeman, for the answers in the first term. My group has a number of questions for clarification. On the one hand, the Secretary of State speaks of a matter of national importance which justifies the use of the National Coordination Regulation and therefore requires the agreement of the Second and First Chambers, but makes the scope of the military radar in Herwijnen literally small by talking about a radar with a capacity of less than 100 kilowatts. So it's very important, but it's just a little thing. It's kind of colliding. If the radar is more than 100 kilowatts, it falls under environmental category 6 according to the 16 September letter, where the nearest sensitive environmental destinations should not be within 1,500 meters. But within these 1,500 meters are people's homes and the flying area of storks, bats and other protected animals that, according to a Thales report itself, do not stay out of the danger zone. Thales speaks of a safe distance of 225 meters. If the installation appears to have more than 100 kilowatt power and falls into environmental category 6, will it not be placed? Can the Secretary of State clarify that? We would also like an answer to our question as to whether the Secretary of State has a plan B. This is about the safety and health of humans and animals, and it seems to us that this is not acceptable. The chances of the Council of State rejecting the plan are high. The National Integration Plan, RIP. a terrifying abbreviation in this context..... uses a distance of 100 metres for civil transmitters under 100 kilowatts, but in military radar installations it talks about 1,500 metres. Can the Secretary of State explain that again? The Secretary of State also says that the so-called staring mode is only used in real threat situations. But there's no practice with that mode, is my question. Is it true that the two radars that were present earlier were never in use together and that one was spare for the other and therefore there was no cumulative radiation? Finally, Mr President. The Secretary of State asks us to agree to the National Coordination Scheme without further investigation, without alternatives and without clear information. As far as my group is concerned, the appeal to considerations of national importance has produced more fog than clarity. The Secretary of State has not been able to remove that fog in the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a special debate, and that is it. Involuntarily, I had to think about Henry Ford last night. His T-Ford could be delivered in any color, if only black. For the Defense Department, every alternative location for the radar seems to be very discussable, as long as it's Herwijnen. During the debate I also had to think for a moment: yes, you are thinking of the current noise around pfas and nitrogen: until recently, at least for me, never a problem, but now we are in a real crisis. The whole country's down. Something like this also seems to apply to the Defense radar in New Milligen. Never knew there was a problem with that, but now it turns out that radar can stop at any moment and it turns out that it has been in some sort of cave for 40 years. You then wonder who is actually responsible for this unstable security situation and why the alarm bell hasn't been sounded much louder in recent years. However, these will first of all be questions for the House of Representatives. In our view, a state coordination regime for Herwines should only be discussed if sound research makes it clear that there are no alternative locations for Herwines. Then you can take such an emergency measure as far as we're concerned. For the SGP, therefore, one thing is crucial for the follow-up: to do justice to the legitimate questions of the inhabitants of Herwijnen, to their health, and to give alternative locations a full chance. This must be guaranteed on the left or right. Can the Secretary of State give that guarantee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the contribution to the second term. This time, in view of the confusion last night, I will also pronounce Mrs Teunissen's name correctly. I see that Mr Nicolaï is here. It does indicate how well the Group of the Party of Animals is working together, if everyone can be spokesperson on this dossier. Perhaps it is right to point out that in your contributions, both last night and this morning, you have all indicated how important you think it is to be careful and sound in the investigations that are being carried out. Mr Van Dijk spoke about guarantees, Mr Koole asked for them again, as did Mr Ganzevoort. Actually, you all said that's important. I believe that the discussion last night focused on the need for the national coordination system. I thought Mr Rietkerk put it well in relation to the Spatial Planning Act. The question now before the First Chamber is whether, on the basis of an appeal to the national interest, I may declare the national coordination system applicable. I've reported to you why that is. Mr Van Dijk asked how it could have come to this. About the state of defense and about what it takes to get the DOD back in order, we can set up a whole tree with each other; I think we'll still be at it tonight. But that is why we call on the state coordination scheme, also because the municipality of West Betuwe has indicated that we no longer want to start a zoning procedure. The question remains as to whether, as a cabinet, we still believe that Herwijnen is the right location. We have replied yes to that, and that is why we have set up the national coordination system. There are concerns. The municipality of West Betuwe has written me a clear letter containing two concerns, namely health and cumulative effects, and research into alternatives. Mrs Moonen asked for a reflection on this. I think we treated this with each other last night, too. I have indicated to you that some things in the process could have been better. Why not investigate alternatives directly on 1 January? This also has to do with the reclassification of the municipality. You can all form your opinion on this afterwards, but sometimes things run the way they do. The meeting with the municipality of Lingewaal was held in December last year. Then it was time for a new municipal board to form a college and the like. It took a while. But there was also some delay on our part. I agree with you that it might have been possible to do so more quickly. Then I will deal with the specific questions that have been asked. Mr Dessing was clear about the conditions set by the Forum for Democracy Group, including sound and careful investigations. Mr Janssen expressed his opinion on this matter on behalf of the SP Group. He specifically asked what TNO takes into account. We talked about that last night. In principle, TNO validated the first Thale report in 2012. You can also find that online. Following his own radar on his own site in Hengelo, Thales has again made measurements to see if the manufacturing data corresponds to the practice. The latest data will be used. Mr Koole or anyone else, I believe Mr Dessing asked yesterday whether the measurement data in Wier could be included. Not at the moment, because the radar station in Wier still has to be built. Also in Herwijnen, when the radar is placed there, measurements will be made to see if the radiation meets the existing standards. If there are new data from the Thale report that can be validated by TNO, then of course I will also look into it. You have found Thales' latest validation this year. TNO will involve them in the investigation of cumulative effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u68	Just for a minute. I'm trying to distill an answer to my question. Thales has validated himself, I understand that, but I am concerned that TNO, as an independent institution, is looking at whether that validation of Thales is valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u70	That's a bit much "valid" in a sentence, but that's what I'm looking for. Saves the filing of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u71	Yes, TNO will. TNO did so in 2012 and TNO will now do so again on the basis of Thales' latest reports on the use of radar. I have indicated that it has been implemented this year. The latter data will also be taken into account. TNO will therefore carry out a validation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u72	The Secretary of State just spoke about the accumulation of effects of health risks. Can the Commission explain how it deals with peak and average loads? I think Mr Koole has asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u73	Yes. For both, there are conditions for calculating this when it comes to ICNIRP standards. TNO will also use these for both the peak load and the average values. The ICNIRP standards are not legally anchored, but the Council of State does indicate that this is the basis on which you must reach a judgment. That will happen, because we also have to abide by the standards that apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u74	Let me repeat my question: does this also apply to the simultaneous peak load? Is this also included in the study, the effects of the peak load of two radars at the same time at peak?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u75	The question is whether it is possible to calculate that. We will ask TNO that question. I can't say for sure whether you can count on peak loads of everything, because it's not just about radar stations but also about all the other traffic. The most important thing is that this will be looked at in the calculation models to see if they meet the values that apply. One can calculate the peak load per source. That's what happens. So you can calculate the peak load per source. Or can you add that up and then make a statement about it? I'm not a scientist. TNO will have to do so, because it will also have to be responsible for the calculation and the judgements that are given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u76	But I understand very well from the Secretary of State that she does ask TNO that question? Then it's up to the technicians to decide if it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u77	Yes. So it can probably be done by source, we know that, but how can it then be validated, I really leave it at TNO. I'm not the expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u78	Does that mean that if the legal standards for this are exceeded, there can be no environmental permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u79	Yes. I confirmed this yesterday, also in response to Mrs Moonen and Mrs Huizinga's question, whether it is being looked at when the shovel goes into the ground and also when the radar is on. So there are a number of times when you can still test that. Then there is Mr Koole's question about the health studies. Mrs Teunissen asked about the environmental category, kilowatt and distance. Last night, I brought you into the VNG guidelines for spatial planning. These provide a basis for all drivers of any layer to indicate when and when you need to do further research. That therefore applies as a directive. Then the 1,500-meter limit applies. If you want to deviate from that, you have to be able to argue why you deviate from that. This has also been approved by the Council of State in various procedures. Then it's incredibly relevant that you meet the values that apply. Mr Rietkerk just asked about that. If you don't, you won't get an environmental permit within the implementation scheme. As you know, there is a spatial regulation and an implementing regulation within the national coordination scheme. These are submitted at the same time, so that views can be given at the same time and they can be treated at the same time. That's why you have that speed, unlike the zoning plan where it's handled in sequence. This goes at the same time. Mr. Ganzevoort asked what the difference is. The difference is that I take over the task of the municipalities, but the guarantees that apply remain unabated. The advantage of this method is precisely the speed and clarity that you put everything in one go and therefore also the total on the table. Then there is an integral image that people can take directly into their view. I can therefore answer Mrs Teunissen's and Mr Koole's questions that I can only deviate from that directive of 1,500 metres if I argue why and that the standards that apply are complied with, which is the most essential thing that is being examined. That's what's gonna happen. I will have to prove that, and the Council of State will also review me on that, otherwise both the National Accession Plan and the Implementing Decision will not be adopted. Mr Koole asked about the aspect of time. That certainly plays a role. I also shared that in my conversation with the municipality of West Betuwe. He asked whether time will also play a role in the assessment of any other alternative locations. The answer is yes. I have also explicitly exchanged this with the municipality of West Betuwe and with the House of Representatives, and I also said it yesterday in reply to Mrs Huizinga's question. It is not for nothing that national interests are called upon. That is also because of the time in which we have to realize that radar. That's gonna play a role. If there is a location that scores just like that, I'll just call it Herwijnen, but where we then have to do it through an expropriation procedure, it falls off for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u80	I ask the Secretary of State what is about the understanding of time. Then you can already say when the border is crossed and it takes too long if there are alternative locations, but there must be land, for example, whether it costs time and money in a different way? Is that an extra six months, an extra year or four years? You say four years is too long. When isn't it too long?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u81	First, I want to wait for the outcome of the alternative study. Perhaps nothing comes of that, in the sense that it is comparable. If anything comes out, go and see if it's easily available. If it is on land that is readily available, it is a very different situation than when it comes to land to which someone is entitled, land property, and you come by as a State and ask if he wants to sell the land. If someone says he doesn't want to, you have to start an expropriation procedure. I think it is important that we first have the investigation to decide what a real time frame is. That time plays a role, I explicitly included in my conversation with the municipality of West Betuwe to indicate that it is not a non-binding exercise. I take this very seriously. I'm really looking at what the options are and what can be, but the judgment doesn't just look at the content, but also at the length of time required.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u82	Then there's got to be some idea when it's gonna take too long, right? I understand from this that if it took longer than it would have taken in Herwijnen, that does not mean it is rejected. But if it takes more than four years, the alternative location will certainly be rejected. The Secretary of State says that somewhere in between it will be a balancing process. I am very sorry that no indication is given, because of course there is a danger that there will be a lot of alternative locations and that can always be said: that takes time and so it cannot go on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u83	Let me put it this way when it comes to the same duration as the Herwijnen location: it was formally launched in 2016 and we are now living in 2019, almost 2020 by now. To answer your very specific question directly: we do not have time to do so for another three years. The question of what is a real timeline also depends on it. You have expressed your concerns, but yesterday we had a debate on whether two radars are sufficient or whether you might even have to go to three radars in the Netherlands. I think wherever you start the discussion about setting radars, it will be asked whether it should be at that location and whether there are any other locations. I think you should be aware of that. Even if you go to another location, you will get the discussion again about the basis on which it is put into procedure and whether a municipality is willing to do so. Then the same can happen as in Herwijnen and then we are also a few years further. I'm looking at it with an open eye. I promised that yesterday, and I say that today when it comes to other options, but time really plays a role for me. I cannot put a deadline on that, whether it be four months, six months, eight months or twelve months, but I personally think it is important that we make speed. So I'll take that look at it. If there is something that is available tomorrow and can be put directly into procedure, then that is a real option if it scores similar to Herwijnen. That is why we have of course started this exercise at all, because we want good radar coverage on the basis of the two radars we now have in the Netherlands. Mr Ganzevoort had an interruption debate with Mr Rietkerk on the state coordination regime. In my view, Mr Rietkerk had put it right when it comes to the vacuum that exists today, in the sense that as a resident, you now have no legal basis to properly implement your rights. That is because we have not formally started, because it is now unclear. What is clear is that the then municipality of Lingewal voted against and that the municipality of West Betuwe indicated in June that it did not want to participate in a zoning change, via a letter that was also sent to you. That's where we stand now. It is also clear that the cabinet has decided on the state coordination regime, because we believe it is of national importance to place this radar station. I have promised you that we will start research, given the unrest that has arisen and given the question of the municipality of West Betuwe. But we did not formally start a state coordination scheme. Formally, there is no other procedure either, and so what Mr Rietkerk said applies is that you have not really anchored all the guarantees here that you have in a state coordination system, with participation and with views. That is a valid point, which you always ask for when it comes to communication. I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u84	Let's stay out of these circular reasonings. The city said no. Why? Because the residents there say no. So that's very broad there. If the government does not allow any state coordination regulation to enter into force, the residents will be protected against it as much as possible. It will only become an issue when the government says: we are going to get over it, we are going to overrule it. Natúúr, then, there must be good guarantees. Fortunately, they are included in the scheme. But it is not the case that citizens' rights are better guaranteed by a state coordination regime. Without this state coordination scheme, nothing will happen and nothing will happen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u85	That's right, Mr. Chairman. But the question I am asking you is whether, because of national interest, I should be allowed to use the national coordination system, because it is important to replace the radar station and because of our search. We had a very clear exchange of views yesterday, and you also indicated your questions and your concerns in my direction. That's where we stand now. The question is whether you agree to this. Of course, we have another discussion with each other if there is no radar station, but the question to you is: can I start this procedure, where I have to meet all the guarantees, together with the Minister of the Interior? And where it is also up to the municipality and the province to test me on that and to influence that as well. In the second instance, Mr Rietkerk also pointed out that it is only up to the legal advisers as well as the province and the municipality in the preliminary draft. However, as a result of your question, I have already promised to consider whether I can involve residents at that stage. In the formal procedure, it is only in the second stage, when the draft plan of incorporation is in place, that the views can then be formally changed. But, of course, you are right to say that if you do not start a state coordination scheme, then you will have no discussion either. That is correct, but I also indicated to you that I am not starting the state coordination scheme for nothing, because it is urgent to place the radar, because I am concerned about radar coverage in the Netherlands. Then I would like to continue answering questions. Mr Ganzevoort also asked about the permit for wind farms. Mr Janssen actually asked for that yesterday. It's good to take two things apart. If the radar would stay on Nieuw Milligen, then there is a problem with Flevoland, when it comes to three mill parks on land. That's a separate discussion. Mr Janssen's second question last night has to do with the fact that as long as we are still working on a search area where there is a circle of 75 kilometres around it, I cannot say for the time being: you can place a windmill there. 'Cause I haven't determined where the radar's going yet. From the search area you have said that it is a stamp, but if you draw a limit of 75 kilometers around it, then you have quite a lot of areas in the Netherlands where at the moment there are plans for windmills, whether they are a few or a bit more. So those are the two different discussions in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u86	Very brief and very precise. So that does not wait for our agreement with the RCR, which awaits the outcome of the alternative investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u87	Yes. And with that, the decision of the Defense Department whether we proceed in this way, yes or no. That's because of the windmill question. Mr Ganzevoort had also asked for a commitment on the reply. I see one of the residents upstairs, but there were more residents there last night. I also got the signal that some people hadn't arrived. If that's the case, I'm very sorry. I'm gonna go after that one more time. Based on my information I had 26 mailers, but I heard from several people last night that they had e-mailed but that they hadn't heard anything. So we're gonna see what that's about. It is also important to place the questions and the answers. I'll do that as soon as I can. I don't know if that's the end of this week, maybe starting next week, but as soon as possible. However, I would like to make the point that I cannot answer all the questions relating to alternatives and health, because I want to wait for them to be examined. Furthermore, it has been asked whether I can give a description of the deed of the trial. How this is done has been incorporated into the alternative study. I will ask TNO if it is possible to find out earlier how they are doing this trick. Whether that is possible before your vote, I have to ask TNO, but I will try to do so. Then it's about the process, so it's not so much about the content. How does such a process of trechting go, how do you get a location choice, what are the search areas and what falls down and what doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u88	Perhaps we can make a deal, because the Secretary of State says that she can come up with it as soon as possible but is not sure whether that is before or after the votes. We may be able to get those votes moving a little bit in time with what the Secretary of State can do. So if you make sure it gets there quickly, we'll get us to vote right after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u89	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Sounds like a good deal to me. As I told you, I would also like to put it to TNO, because it does the research. I need to get that information from them, so it's not unwillingness on my part. I am dependent on a third party who conducts the investigation and who can clearly indicate how that research is being carried out. That is also their responsibility in this matter. This will also be done together with the National Real Estate Company. Then I think we have also had the question about the peak load. I come to the question of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats about the KNMI radar. As I understood your question yesterday, but then I misunderstood it: make sure that the KNMI goes away and take that place. I have replied that this cannot be done without reason; that the State should come to another person and say: we will withdraw your permit. But also for the KNMI it works with two radars in the Netherlands. That's not for nothing either, because you can't cover the Netherlands with one radar. The KNMI has a radar in Den Helder and a here. That is why the same question applies to the KNMI, which also has a legal role. It will therefore be said that we want proper cover to ensure that we are able to carry out our task properly. So it's not unwilling to ask them anything. I am quite willing to ask the KNMI the question: where are you and why are you sitting there? But I'm not gonna promise I'm gonna make the exchange now. But I'm going to ask the KNMI. Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals asked when you may deploy the National Coordination Scheme. This can only be done if there is a national interest. That's the safety issue. That is still separate from what radar is coming and how many kilowatts are involved. By the way, the radiation load is particularly relevant when it comes to health effects. Because the number of kilowatts doesn't necessarily say anything about the amount of radiation load. That depends on how the radar works. There are many types of radar with different types of power that also have very different loads. That's why you have to pass them on to determine where a radar meets or doesn't. So the number of kilowatts is not so relevant to the discussion about the health effects, but the radiation load it entails, in any mode. It needs to be passed on in order to determine whether you meet the standards, yes or no. That's what's gonna happen. That is also what the study of cumulative effects is looking at. I also think that I have just answered your question about the 1,500 metres on the occasion of Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u90	The number of kilowatts is not so relevant to the health effects, says the Secretary of State. However, in the letter of 16 September, I think she mentioned 100 kilowatts. That wasn't for nothing. That obviously has some relevance, I also thought for the health effects. If that does not matter, does that mean that the inclusion in the environmental category is also less important? If there is a higher number of kilowatts, can the project be brought into a lower category due to potentially more limited health effects? Or does that have nothing to do with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. There's two things going on. In the letter it was about the environmental category and the distance. This question also has to do with health. I want to make a distinction in that. The radiation load is not so much about the number of kilowatts as about how the radar is used. That's relevant to health research. The question about the 1,500 meters is connected to this. You're allowed to deviate from that? I reported yesterday that the average radiation load is 100 kilowatts of this radar. You asked if the peak load would be included. That's the case. The core is this. If you want to be able to deviate from the standard of 1,500 meters, you have to be able to demonstrate that you meet all the other standards that apply. The health standard is essential. Then you must be able to calculate the radiation load of the radar, regardless of the number of kilowatts. We talked last night about environmental category 6. Once upon a time, radar stations, as well as oil refineries and nuclear power stations, have been chosen to be brought under this category. I'm sure the experts who've been digging into this will know why. It is, of course, a different tax from a nuclear power plant or an oil refinery. That is also the reason why you can deviate from the guidelines on grounds of motivation. In this respect, it is good to distinguish between directives and legal standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u92	Another point. The Secretary of State has spoken on several occasions about the national interest. She's working on a study of alternatives. What if she doesn't find an alternative and this plan ends with the Council of State, is she also working on a plan B in parallel?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u93	So I have every interest in not letting this plan end. The Council of State will check whether I have done this process carefully and whether I am based on the right information when it comes to underpinning both the spatial decision and the environmental decision. That's what the Council of State is testing. So I have to do this carefully, also in response to your calls. That is the obligation I have to myself, but also to you. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered most of the questions raised by the Animal Party, both by means of a debate of interruption and by answering questions from other Members. Mr Rietkerk spoke of a four-stroke, the four standards under review. That was a call to emphasise that. Mrs Moonen asked again to look back at the trial. It reiterated the commitments. The main question was how the process went with the residents. I made a commitment to that too. Mr Arbouw emphasized the importance of radar. Mr Van Dijk indicated the urgency. I have already indicated that there is a great deal to be said about this. Why haven't the radars been replaced before? This may have been due to discussions about the money needed. It is now relevant that these radars are quickly replaced by the National Coordination Regulation with all the safeguards that apply to them. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered your chamber's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u94	I have a question on Mr De Vries' motion. You have responded to it, but can you also give an opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u95	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Dissuade. I just reported for what reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u96	I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u97	I have come to deal with the decision that has been sent. Under Article 3.35 of the Regional Planning Act, this decision is subject to the agreement of both chambers. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the decision on the application of the National Coordination Scheme to project military radar station Herwijnen? That's the case. The vote will then be taken in principle in a week's time. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Does it expect to be able to provide the promised information within that week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u98	I'm assuming so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u99	That's the case. Then I suggest that we now decide to vote in a week's time. Of course, there can always be a request for a postponement. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u100	I would like to go a step further than asking for a postponement. I think I was just about to have an idyll with this Secretary of State about the moment, the deal, the information we get from her and our vote. My proposal is that we vote next week subject to the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-3.u101	Of course. We'll vote next week. At that time, one of you, for example on the ground you just mentioned, can always ask for a postponement. Finally, I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. I see there's no objection to that.
