ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u1	Next, the legislative proposal 35010, Amendment of the Child-Based Budget Act to increase the income limit of the child-related budget for couples. This morning's debate on this bill took place. Once again, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State to the First Chamber. During the debate, Mr Kox made an order proposal to put this bill to the vote at a later date, when the bill announced by the Secretary of State to restore non-indexation also reached this Chamber. In the context of this debate, the Secretary of State has been asked for a letter explaining why the vote on legislative proposal 35010 is necessary today. That letter was sent around this afternoon. The short-term report of this morning's debate has also been circulated. I shall come back to Mr Kox's procedural proposal later. Does one of the members wish a short third term in response to the letter? I note that a third term is required. Can the House agree to this? That's the case. Then I'll open the third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u2	I'll take a look at the spokesmen. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Sent if I so wish. It shall waive a third term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We received the letter this afternoon. Thank you for that, Secretary of State. More explicitly, it states that non-working on or non-voting on the legislative proposal today may pose risks for raising the child-related budget for couples. We believe that this potential risk is too great not to vote on the legislative proposal tonight, because we simply do not want to contribute to the fact that this increase in the child-related budget cannot take place on 1 January. My group therefore recommends that we put it to the vote this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u4	Mrs. De Bruijn-Wezeman, would you stand still for a moment? There's been an interruption for you from Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u5	I would like to ask Mrs De Bruijn how she assesses the justification in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u6	I asked the Secretary of State this morning what is necessary procedurally to ensure that at least what the legislative proposal regulates, namely an increase in the child-related budget for couples, will actually take place on 1 January next. I understand again from the letter 'I read that it is true that there is the necessary preparatory work for the Tax Administration, that there is an advance to be paid as early as December, that people have to be contacted before by letter and that there is simply time to do so. Moreover, I understand from the letter that if we do not accept the bill before 1 September, we simply did not accept the budget involved, namely the €500,000 that is part of the bill, in fact have not been anchored in the legislative decision-making process. I just don't want to take that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u7	I have one more question. I would like to point out to Mrs De Bruijn that we carry out regular preparatory work at the Tax Office, even before a legislative proposal has been adopted. The Tax Plan is a good example of this. In December we will be voting on it, and prior to that preparatory acts are already taking place at the Tax Administration. The question I still have to ask Mrs De Bruijn is whether she is aware of the reports of the cabinet in dealing with this bill, in which the Chamber was urged to deal with the recess bill. Because I am not aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u8	I am not aware of the government's reaction to this. I have just informed the Secretary of State about this, but perhaps she herself can answer the question as to why this bill was not before this Chamber because it had to be dealt with before 1 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u9	Finally. Does Mrs De Bruijn think it is special that it is now being discussed and that it has not been discussed before in committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u10	In that sense, it may be special if something goes wrong in a procedure. I imagine you have doubts about that. On the other hand, we have also discussed Kafkaian situations here this morning, namely that people, for example, do not get what they are entitled to if we stick so strictly to certain regulations. I do not want to participate in this by saying in this Chamber: we are strictly committed to it; this has not been requested in advance; this is the rule and we are not going to vote on this bill until the novelle or the amendment of the law is in place. I don't want to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u11	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Van Gurp van GroenLinks whether he needs a third term. No. Then Mr. Ester. He doesn't need a third term. I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. We'll talk about the order proposal later. I'm going into the letter now. In the letter, the Secretary of State says that it is very important that this bill enters into force before 1 September. I would point out that the permanent procedure of this Chamber is that we receive a letter from the Prime Minister stating the proposals on urgent legislative proposals before the summer recess or before the winter recess. That letter didn't come. That means, according to our standard procedure, our established procedure, that this is not an emergency bill. In the reply and in the further reply, there was no mention whatsoever of the need to adopt this law on 9 July. There was no exchange of words on this in committee. The Secretary of State didn't say that. The Secretary of State for Tax Affairs didn't report that either. Assuming that we have a consistent government, I conclude from this that this bill needs to be dealt with as soon as possible, but there is no reason to say that it could not be dealt with at the first meeting after the summer recess. I would point out to the Secretary of State that the information that is there, namely that we know and knew, is therefore not true. I have now found that the Secretary of State has also found that the letter that should have been there, the letter from the Prime Minister, is simply not there. This means that we should do everything according to normal procedures and not invent new procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Then I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out, as far as I am concerned, that the recovery operation is the result of an omission of the Supplements Service and is therefore separate from this law, if I am right. That's determination and question one. I also wonder whether this omission, as the government calls it, can and will be restored when we say goodbye to each other and whether the project group, which is already working, will also ensure that no further mistakes are made. The third point is that, as a CDA group, we are wondering whether the Tax Administration, the Supplements Service, after it has also taken note of the way in which we have dealt with this proposal of law, does not have enough comfort to start preparing for what is to be paid out by 1 December. I would like answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. Finally, Mrs Moonen. It does not need a third term. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State. Can you answer me right away? It's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u16	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to have a third deadline on this bill. I am pleased that the content of the legislative proposal could be welcomed, at least that is how I have tasted it. But I have made sure that the procedure surrounding this bill has become the subject of discussion. I would like to give another reflection on that. I have also heard a number of substantive questions from Mrs Oomen. The message before the recess. Indeed, I have not seen a letter as usual in the First Chamber in case of emergency legislation. However, there have been contacts about the desirability of dealing with the bill for the summer recess. But I understand that this is not in accordance with the previous procedure. In that respect, I admit that, in my view, we need to evaluate this very carefully, because I am only saying it quite honestly I would really have had a problem if it had indeed occurred after the summer recess. What happened around the debate? The debate was on. Very recently, last weekend, I received information about the macro-economic coverage, which led me to send a letter to the Chamber last Monday, because I found that knowledge that belongs in this debate. I have tried to enslave myself in this respect, both in relation to the concerns expressed by the House of Representatives about the purchasing power meeting in August, and in the light of the fact that I know that procedures are always handled in the House of First Instance with great integrity. I thought I should suggest the possibility of looking at this issue by means of a particular course of action. But that is only a suggestion on my part, because in the end, of course, it is the Chamber itself that decides. The recovery operation is indeed separate from the operation of the Supplements Service, I say to Mrs Oomen. That's right. We fix the mistakes of the past. A separate project organisation has been set up for this purpose. At the same time, there is the current operation, the regulation of a legislative change, which really has some feet in the ground because it is about making a difference between couples and single people, about phasing-out points, about informing parents and about advances to be paid as early as December. The Tax Administration has said in its execution test: we must have knowledge of this by 1 September at the latest. That is also the reason why I myself assumed that now it is wrong to say that this would indeed, if possible, lead to treatment before that date. The dates I mentioned in the debate this morning were 1 September for the Tax Administration and 15 October for the indexing. We also had an exchange of views this morning on the pressure on the implementation organisations. To give just one example: in 2008, when we transposed this law into the systems that were there then, there was no execution test. Because there is so much pressure on implementation, the cabinet attaches great importance to the feasibility of legislation that we implement. So if the Tax Administration says "we need to know by 1 September at the latest," then I think that is very relevant information and I cannot just say that I would not want to do that just a few weeks later, especially because I know what kind of information and ICT systems are behind it. The Supplements department can, of course, start preparations. I'm gonna have to. However, I have also had a brief discussion with my colleague on the implementation test. And given the extent of the work done by the Tax Administration, I also think it is important that they really know what they are dealing with. That's a statement from a chamber, isn't it? That's the law before you. That is requested in the execution test. I would like to hold on to that, realizing that this process does not deserve a beauty prize, as it turned out in the third term. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have at least been able to say that in all transparency I have tried to do exactly what was wanted in substance. I also think that this has led to little discussion in substance. Everyone says it is a good thing that the people who have paid the cost of the crisis in many ways in recent years are now getting some of that back. We shouldn't be billing a group for that. In any case, I would like to have had that debate and I hope that I will be able to serve your Chamber in the debate surrounding the process in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u18	I shall come back to Mr Kox's procedural proposal. Who can I give the floor to? Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. We have before us a bill whose basic elements can count on broad support in this Chamber. Nevertheless, this bill in the Lower House was rejected by four parties because it contained a provision which, according to those parties, was too far-reaching. In the meantime, yesterday, the Secretary of State informed us that she shares that reasoning, and that that provision therefore does not belong in this law. There is therefore a legislative proposal with a provision that does not belong in it. The Secretary of State has announced that she wants to make a novelle for that. It is the practice of this house that when you announce a novelle, you present it to the House of Representatives as soon as possible and then bring it back here, after which the bill with the novelle, the amended bill, will be put to the vote together. No grounds have been given to derogate from that procedure. I have indicated that there is a precedent in 2008, with the same law and the same novelle, which is about the same: adjustment of the amounts. That law eventually appeared in the Official Journal in November. Mr. Chairman. I think it's very good because I think there's broad agreement on this: if the Secretary of State sends a novelle to the House of Representatives tomorrow, the House of Representatives, which is on its first meeting day, I think we'll approve September 3rd and we'll be able to give a blow to that on September 10th. Then we've followed the procedure as it should be followed. This whole law is already a succession of things that shouldn't have happened. I therefore urge the Court to deal with this bill as it should be dealt with. I would find it embarrassing that four parties are now being forced to vote in favour of a law which contains a provision which, according to the Secretary of State, does not belong in it, just to say 'we voted today and then we are probably going to adopt the amended law on 10 September'. We shouldn't do that. This Chamber should attach importance to the procedures that have been agreed upon. As I said, if the government wanted us to deal with this before the summer recess, we have a firm procedure for that. Mr. Chairman. I'm very much in favour of us sticking to the procedures. Again, it doesn't make any difference. I am convinced that the Tax Administration is quite capable of implementing this law, otherwise the Tax Administration would have told us. Over the past six months, the IRS hasn't told us. The Secretary of State for Tax Affairs didn't tell us, and this Secretary of State didn't tell us. I am counting on the consistency of the government, so I am making an order proposal to put this proposal to the vote as soon as de novelle has been adopted by the House of Representatives. I think we could do that on September 10th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Who else can I give the floor to Mr Kox's procedural proposal? Mrs. Jorritsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u21	Mr President, I am happy to do it on the interrupting microphone. I am very sorry that Mr Kox chooses this position. In the meantime, I have seen emails exchanged between the Ministry of Social Affairs and our Registry, which raised the question of whether we would like to deal with the bill as soon as possible. That is not in accordance with how it should be formal; Mr Kox is absolutely right. But I think that the Secretary of State has now gone deep enough to acknowledge that it does not deserve the beauty prize. It has been announced that there will be a change to the law, whether it be a novelle or a repair law. I have now understood that a law which has been accepted in this Chamber but has not yet entered into it can also be restored with a new one. We all agree on that. There's a letter announcing it and promising it. In fact, we are voting on a law which only accepts the part that should be voted on as soon as possible by the Tax Administration. Next comes the repair on the section on which the Chamber agrees by a large majority, namely the point that needs to be indexed. I honestly believe that, despite the failure of the interaction between the cabinet and the chamber on the trial, we should not be in a position to take the risk that the people entitled to it will not get the money on 1 January. That would be the reason for me not to support Mr Kox's procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u22	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. Then Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. In any case, we would like to suspend for a moment in order to be able to carefully make this balance between procedures and people, which we all have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u24	So a request for suspension. Are there any other Members who would like to speak on Mr Kox's procedural proposal? Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, a few terms are used interchangeably. I can imagine that it is not proper legislation if we vote today on the bill while there is a novelle. I couldn't agree more. But if we talk about voting today and a repair law, then maybe that's another matter. I think we should weigh that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u26	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u27	Mr. Chairman. What Mr Schalk said is indeed des Pudels Kern. Are we talking about a novelle or a repair law? Perhaps the Secretary of State should not have said that it is a novelle, because if it is a repair law, this is a law and there will be a repair law. That's one. Two: apart from the procedure and the interests of the citizen, when the Tax Administration says that it is not feasible before 1 September, at least, that it cannot give that guarantee, that ultimately weighs so much for my group that we actually think that this law should be accepted. Following on from the comment on novel or repair law, the following proposal can also be dealt with in good time, but at least we know that for the group concerned, there is legal certainty that this will be done in accordance with the cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Does one of the Members wish to speak on Mr Kox's procedural proposal? Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. We just want to say that we are convinced by Mrs Jorritsma's story and that we think it is more important that no disadvantaged groups are created before 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u31	I think there has been enough talk about this law. I fully understand Mr Kox's proposal for order, but I believe that the interests of the citizen must be at stake. I propose that we vote on the order proposal as soon as possible and then on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mrs. Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, the procedure may not deserve a fair price, but if the Tax Administration does indeed indicate that it should be voted on before 1 September, then we also think that we should vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u34	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Jorritsma's speech. The risk for many families would be too great if the Chamber did not take a decision now. At the same time, we have also noticed in the reply of the Secretary of State that we can count on the repair legislation being put in place, because that is how I see it, that is perhaps a difference of interpretation here in this house on time. Maybe on 10 September we will be able to announce a new parliamentary year with this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u36	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Does one of the Members still wish to speak on Mr Kox's procedural proposal? If not, can the Chamber support Mr Knapen's request for suspension? That's the case. Then I suggest we suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u37	It is customary for the floor to be given first to the person who requested the suspension, but Mr Kox has asked to take the floor. With your agreement, I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u38	I would like to withdraw the order proposal, and I would ask for a short fourth term, to put one more question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u39	Can Members agree to a short fourth term? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u40	I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. In order to reach such a solution that everyone can ultimately vote for something that we are all in favour of, I ask the Secretary of State to say, using the provisions of the law, that the article in which the non-indexation is recorded will not enter into force until after the Secretary of State has submitted its repair law to the Second and First Chamber. That means that anyone who loved the old law can just vote in favour and anyone who does not like the law with that controversial provision in it can vote in favour. The request to the State Secretary is therefore that the law governing non-indexation should not enter into force until after the repair law is here. I understand that the text of the law offers that possibility. If we can get that commitment, we can still have a nice closure for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kox. From the side of the Chamber any input? No. Then the Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I really appreciate us trying to get there like this. I think we have a nice bridge with repair legislation. I would like to take a legal look at whether this is a law in which I can say that I will allow this article to enter into force later. It's not very common, but maybe I can suspend for two minutes. At the moment, the information I have about this law is that it cannot be done, because everything would come into force at the same time. I know it's possible sometimes, so I'd like to check it out. Seems like a great way to get out. But at least I want to promise that I will come up with repair legislation. I am already working on the legislative amendment, which already goes to the Council of State during the summer recess. So everything's urgent. In any case, I have made a commitment that I will come forward with repair legislation for the indexation at such a time that it can enter into force before the law enters into force for that part. I just don't know if I can formally state that in the law. I'd like to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u44	The Secretary of State wants a two-minute suspension. Can the House agree to that request? Then we'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u45	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I've got something that can't, but I've got something that can. What is not possible is to allow the law to enter into force differentiated. That is because at the end of this law it is stated that it will enter into force at a time to be determined by royal decree. It should then have been stated that the different provisions would enter into force at different times. Only then could this have happened. I'd be very happy to. However, I can ask the King's Cabinet to make the royal decision at a later date. I can only then arrange for publication in the Official Journal to take place when the repair legislation has been adopted by both Chambers. Of course, I am very willing to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u47	That is exactly the right solution. Together we come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u48	Very good. On this point, Mr President, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-9.u49	Thank you, Secretary of State.
