ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the goodbye to two of our colleagues: Mrs Bruins Slot from the CDA and Mr Özdil from GroenLinks. I'll start with Mrs. Hanke Bruins Slot's suicide note. Where are you, Hanke? There, yeah. 'Dear President, dear Khadija, Nine years it has been a privilege to be a Member of Parliament. Now I'm going to leave to become a deputy for the province of Utrecht. In addition, I look back on a beautiful task in a special environment. In those nine years I was able to apply the lessons learned from my military career in the Lower House. Then it is not just about the practical interpretation of the work as a Member of Parliament. Like, for example, the saying: "Hurry if you have time, because then you have time when you're in a hurry." It goes beyond that. In my maiden speech I told you that as an ex-military I value being open and honest. To a solid discussion on the ball and not on the man. It's about leadership. Considering interests. And to the realization that you'll eventually do it for others. As a soldier, you learn that authority and trust stand or fall with your own behavior. You're responsible for that yourself. You can't look at others like that. This also applies to our authority as a Lower House. We ourselves decide to a large extent whether we deserve and get this authority and trust. As far as I am concerned, politics is about maintaining good things and changing what is not going well. This is not about us, but about all the other inhabitants of the Netherlands. What's best for the Netherlands? One soldier is not a soldier. As a Member of Parliament, you are effective by working with others. My experience is that somewhere in the Netherlands there is someone who has come up with a solution to a problem. It was a privilege to contribute to bringing forward these solutions. This involved more focus on prevention in care, more money for Defence, more recognition, appreciation and better care for veterans, sustainability of sports associations and support for volunteers. I have always enjoyed and appreciated the cooperation with colleagues from other parties. In order to achieve results, majorities are needed. I'm going to miss my colleagues in the CDA Group and our staff. There is also an important role for journalism in all of this. They keep us sharp and make an essential contribution to exposing abuses. They also play an important role in getting social problems on the political agenda. I would like to thank the messengers, staff of the Restaurant Company, the Registrys and the support of the House of Representatives for their unbridled efforts to ensure that the House of Representatives functions properly. I would also like to thank the security officers, police officers and the military of the Royal Marechaussee for taking care of our security. And now I can work on behalf of the CDA in the service of the inhabitants of the province of Utrecht. The province where I've lived for over half my life. And the province where I'm going to marry a born and raised Utrechtse. Utrecht really is our place. I think it would be great to work for the inhabitants of the province of Utrecht. Of great importance is that Utrecht remains a province where it is good to live, work and live. I would like to make a contribution to this. Sincerely, Hanke Bruins Slot."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Mrs. Bruins Slot, dear Hanke, When you were a kid, you had two dreams. Your father was mayor and at the kitchen table it was often about politics, but you had other plans. You wanted to go to law school, and you wanted to be an officer in the army. Both dreams have come true. You became a lawyer and later commander of the Houwitsers. You were sent to Uruzgan in Afghanistan. That made a lot of impression on you, and it was also indirectly the reason to run for Parliament in 2010. During your broadcast, you saw what could go wrong in a country where a government is absent and lacks trust in society. Once again, it made you aware of the importance of a good and reliable government. As a fresh MP, you went back to Afghanistan in 2010. The dusty roads to Chora were replaced by asphalt; in Tarin Kowt light burned everywhere. You saw economic growth, opportunities for a better future for the Afghans. You just mentioned a few lessons from your military career that you were able to apply here in the Lower House. An important resemblance: it's both human work. You have to keep asking questions to the people around you and in the country. Eventually, the best ideas come from below. And you don't do it for yourself, you do it for others. On top of your very first girl dreams, other dreams came true. In 2005 you became Dutch champion hall hockey. You said about this during one morning fishing with General Dagblad journalist Jan Hoedeman: "The main task as goalkeeper is to make sure that the ball doesn't come to you." Johan Cruijff couldn't have said it better. But just like with him you later think: there is still a core of truth in it. As a member of parliament, you gave others room to play the game. You didn't come to the fore. But when it came down to it, you were there. One of the pillars of the CDA, you've been mentioned in a newspaper article in the last few days. One of your greatest qualities is that you can ask difficult questions. It seems very common for MPs, but it is not always. We saw it when you were a member of the temporary committee on ICT projects in the government, but also when you spoke about defence, sports or medical-ethical issues. You managed to maneuver your opponents in hypothermia in difficult situations, with calmness and patience. You didn't grow up, but you didn't let them put you away either. Like that one infamous time in the debate with Mr Thierry Baudet. He said, "I quote, "that he thought it was cute that you were so naive in life. You reacted directly and sharply, and of course let him know that you served in Uruzgan when he was still in college. Dear Hanke, I hope and think you will look back at a period when you have achieved great results with your own "team CDA" and other colleagues. Your aim was to get systems back to the people. You were often concerned with very practical and tangible solutions. You used local examples to make things concrete in The Hague, like when you mentioned the example of sports associations in Utrecht, because there you heard that the energy bills were very high. That's actually how you got something done and mean a lot to your city and to your region. You are now going to strengthen that role as a deputy in the province of Utrecht. There is a new chapter, a new dream. I wish you every happiness and good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-6.u3	Now is the farewell of Zihni Özdil van GroenLinks. I'll start with his letter. "Dear Khadija, I guess I'll just drop right into the house: I have some bad news. I'm leaving the House of Representatives. Something really went wrong. And I'm so sorry about that. As a member of parliament, I got caught up. Between group discipline and the Constitution, which prescribes "no burden." Over the past two years I have been proud to shape my parliamentary membership. That went with a lot of peaks, but also with valleys. And that sucks. I understand the news fell raw on your roof. But I would like to stress that I have had a wonderful time in this Chamber. I have experienced in the flesh that all MPs in this house, no matter how ideologically they give away from each other, work day in, day out, rock and rock hard to make the Netherlands even more beautiful from their perspective. And that... that's nice politics. Very nice politics. I'm sure you can tell from my words how much I appreciate the freedom of democracy. Free, democratic politics should always be about the content and never about the persons. But I'd like to make an exception today... Because my time in the Chamber has also left me new friendships. A few examples. Take that lid Texel Gijs van Dijk van de PvdA. Unfortunately, we didn't quite manage to have a beer once. Maybe that'll happen again. But an ex-colleague has advised me well-intentioned, but anonymously, to stick to a Coke for the time being."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-6.u4	"Or Salva Belhaj of D66, with whom I hold your heart..... at the end of a Chamber day sometimes had a glass of wine to talk about important matters of national importance. Like how Amsterdam is so much more fun than Rotterdam. Gert-Jan Segers of the Christian Union I prefer to call a frenemy. Because the way he threw me out of the EO Bible quiz years ago deserves the beauty prize. All right, then, I'll let him be forgiven. The same goes for Frank Futselaar of the SP, someone who has simply taught humor at the university. So you never win it in a debate in terms of focus. And that really bugs me. And what about two French Frisians: Harm Bertema and Theo Hiddema? Please keep an extra eye on them, Khadija. Because let's never forget what happened in Dokkum... Isn't it high time for a Bonifatius room in the House of Representatives?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-6.u5	"Also Pieter Ommzigt. A great parliamentarians who not only takes his constitutionally controlling task seriously without burden and backspoke, but also manages to balance it perfectly with the modern obligations of party democracy. I've experienced that you can't copy the original. And last but not least, my great friend, the always cheerful, friendly and helpful Zohie... Zohoe... Zohair. Anyway, the one VVD guy with the hard name, Zohair. As a side-intromer, I was lucky, and perhaps the accident, to watch the political game in this house with the glasses of the people at home. And then there was often something remarkable to see, namely: a game in which MPs are forced... to be the first; to be the fastest; to submit inflation to motions, the result of which is then thrown into the world by screenshot. I deliberately use the term "forced," because it is not fair to just place this phenomenon on the board of those who have to operate in it. Isn't it high time we started wondering whether we had too much of an aim for the political game? Without asking us any more if the rules of the game still apply? Because how can you play the democratic game when, as a member of parliament, you have to fight the hundreds of ministers' officials, when, if you're lucky, you only have one policy officer to yourself? That's a question I want to leave to you and all my colleagues in this house. Khadija, You were my back-up. Like when you told me during a debate that was out of hand: "Mr. Özdil, the debate has yet to begin," while you looked out of your corners of the eye, and I could only bind in. I really hate that I have to leave. Because politics has not only ugly sides but also beautiful sides, such as something that can mean something for students. I also see it as the task of the government not to burden young people, who we as a country need so badly in the future, with unnecessary debt. As a politician, I have tried to contribute to a fair and just education system. But let's start with a warning. Even as an ex-politician, you haven't heard the last of me. In today's Twitter and Social Media Democracy, I will continue to work outside the Chamber for this commitment of social and left-wing policy. Finally, I would like to express my deepest gratitude. To you, Khadija, for the dignified but above all fine way you carry out your presidency. To all my colleagues with whom I was allowed both to work and to cross swords. And of course to the silent motor of the House of Representatives, the support staff: from the cleaners to the Griffin to the catering. I conclude with the wise words of a dear colleague from another party, who also left prematurely: leave each other alone. Greetings, Zihni'
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr Özdil, dear Zihni, There are times when politics only knows losers. That was the case last week, when you announced your departure. It's painful for the Chamber, for your party, but especially for you personally. "The House of Representatives is not always a comfortable place for free spirits." That's what Volkskrantjournalist Ariejan Korteweg wrote on May 15, after you argued in Trouw for the abolition of the loan system. You are such a free spirit, and it was a surprise for many that you applied for GroenLinks in 2016. But after your umpteenth performance in a room in the country, in which you expressed your views about politics, someone said to you: why don't you do it yourself? In the last column you wrote for NRC before you entered the Chamber, you told me about your motivations. You wrote: "That the grandson of a poor Turkish farmer, born in a house of dried manure and cement, could become NRC columnist, proves what different opportunities can make. The fact that the son of an immigrant can be a candidate member of the Chamber illustrates the greatness of the Netherlands. But above all, it illustrates why equal opportunities are so important and why we need to stop the growing inequality in the Netherlands. That's what I'm going to do." You got me. I can't look at you! This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Heavy portfolios, but also portfolios in which you could realize your motivations and your ideal image of equal opportunities for everyone, whether they are called Zihni or Henk. From your questions, motions and proposals, you always expressed your dislike of market functioning and profitability thinking. Your stories, here in the Chamber and beyond, are always characterized by scientific evidence. You get your inspiration from literature from lighting thinkers and Nobel Prize winners like Joseph Stiglitz and Paul Krugman, but you just as easily quote Saint Augustine. But especially Rosa Parks, the icon of the black American civil rights movement, is an example for you. The woman who, in your words, "not patheticly stood in a corner of the bus, but claimed her citizenship." She taught you that equality is something you have to work on yourself. In the debates you've had, things have been tough. Partly you did it yourself. You warned about it in your maiden speech, for that Rotterdam directness. In a speech about neoliberalism, you said "stupid ideology," and you also called it "whore." After your maiden speech, Lodewijk Asscher said: "I like coming in with a drawn middle finger to everyone around you." But you had a fierce tone and you had a reason. A few years ago, in an interview in Trouw, you said that criticism is the highest form of love, free to Thomas Jefferson, the founder of the United States. You criticized me for loving the Netherlands. A country where you weren't born, but where you've always felt at home since childhood. That was largely because of your father, who chose a house in Lombardijen, didn't want a dish and insisted that you go to the best vwo-school in Rotterdam. You also experienced the harshness of the political debate when videos of you were posted on Facebook, which meant that you were not only heavily attacked by Turkish media, but also got tirades and threats from the Netherlands. It really hit you. That can be done in Dutch politics, you found incomprehensible. But you continued to reply. Like the time you got a hateful message on Twitter: "Go back to where your roots are." To which you responded: "Well tired, I just moved to Amsterdam. And now you're making me go to Rotterdam again." It draws who you are. Someone who doesn't shy away from confrontation and engages in the debate. It stands for his ideals. Today you're leaving the Chamber, but I'm sure you'll hear a lot from you through the social debate, about equality, about identity and about citizenship, in order to build and fight for an empathic society. I wish you all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-6.u7	I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments.
