ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	It's nice to keep everyone seated. The National Ombudsman shall be accompanied by the Registrar of the Interior. The next item is the presentation of the joint annual report of the National Ombudsman, the Children's Ombudsman and the Veteran Ombudsman for 2018. I would like to welcome the National Ombudsman, Mr Van Zutphen, in Box K. I would also like to welcome the Kinderombudsman, Mrs Kalverboer, the substitute Ombudsman, Mrs Sylvester, and Mrs Van Essen, Director of the National Ombudsman Bureau. Every year around this time, the National Ombudsman presents the annual report to the Chamber here in the Chamber and briefly explains it. With the annual report, the National Ombudsman is responsible for the important task he carries out by standing up for people trapped in our society. The annual report provides the Court with a direct insight into how public policy is delivered to citizens in everyday practice. The value of this feedback is very important for our work here in the Chamber. I now give the floor to the National Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for finding time today to give us the opportunity to present the annual report of the three ombudsmen. I am very grateful for that and, of course, for your Chamber. A second joint annual report by the Kinderombudsman, the Veteran Ombudsman and the National Ombudsman. Also in 2018 we met many people, many thousands of citizens, children, civilians, veterans, young, old, from the city, the province, born in the Kingdom or elsewhere. In all these conversations and meetings, it was always discussed that anyone who spoke to us, or anyone who wrote or called us, wanted to be able to participate. That is why our annual report for this year is called 'Everyone should be able to participate'. I stress the word "must." If we say "anyone can participate," then it's a little bit up to you whether you're in or out. But when you say "everyone should be able to participate," we say to governments, the government, the municipal government, the fellow governments, that they have to make sure that you can actually participate. So behind that word "must" lies a view on what the government should do for its citizens, at any level. It is therefore a task for the government, but also for everyone, because you know: the Children's Ombudsman not only speaks about government and the Veteran Ombudsman doesn't. So everyone has to make sure that we can all participate. An assignment. An order to take action. We've got to go. Connecting. Think of last year's annual report. We need to actively move into that citizen, into that child, into the veteran, and wonder what he needs to be able to do with it. That is not an easy task, especially since a lot of people only take one government into account. When we talk to the citizens who call us, they say: there is only one government; how can I deal with so many bodies? That solution lies in the hands of the government itself, so: one government, make clear who is hiding behind it and where people should be. I would say: not a wrong-by-principle, but one door, one portal, one window. We also tried to involve people on our own website. We renewed it. You really should check it out. We're proud of it. We've asked Steffie to help us with the language people need to understand who we are and what we do. We think we've managed quite well. With that renewed logo............................................................................................................... To do this can only be achieved if professional officials, the professionals we are always talking about, are simply the competent, skilled people at those points of contact or at that one point of contact, and behind that in cooperation are given the space and resources to do the right thing. Actually, we all know what the good is. I say very often: the work of an ombudsman is that he keeps putting forward what is obvious, so "stating the obvious" as a core business, to use only a little bit of English. Being able to do so means that there are understandable and enforceable rules and laws, because only if there are enforceable rules and laws can people themselves realize and understand what is required of them. This prevents the wrong use of rules, laws, and prevents people from being punished, fined or losing benefits. So it is a plea for clear laws in your Chamber that then lead to people actually being able to participate in society. In this way, the participatory society is a successful project. In our annual report I have already told you that you will find a lot of stories, of adults and of children. They want to participate on their own. To give you an impression: we receive more than a hundred e-mails, phone calls and letters every day from people who let us know that they are unable to participate. What we are trying to do is to put the examples of this in a good way in our report. If you browse through it and read through it, you will see that it is mainly the stories that show you what we have been doing and what is of interest to the citizens. We are very keen to encourage you and others to join us in making it possible for others to realise themselves. That's why the Children's Ombudsman wrote to the Minister of VWS, to Mr. De Jonge, a letter about major concerns in youth care. And that's why, as a Veteran Ombudsman, I interfered with the scope of the concept of veterans and their relationships in the Veterans Act, because others thought that there might be a limitation. And that's why, along with others, I wrote the reports "Citizen care" and "Citizen care" about people with dementia and their close relatives. And that is why I am currently conducting a study on poverty at the BES, starting with poor elderly people at the BES and in the autumn together with the Children's Ombudsman on single parent families and young people. Much remains to be done, but you will understand us well: us, the ombudsmen and their staff. We also see a lot of good going and we also see a lot of improvement. It's not just us. Certainly not, that is mainly because of all the others who are encouraged, among other things by our reports. I see very carefully a tilting, a tilting that also results in the participation society and self-reliance being slowly abandoned, but that the government does not yet know exactly what to replace it. I would say, above all, let us take the citizens' perspective as a guideline. We see these improvements both at the level of the Empire and at the level of the municipality. But we have our list for 2019; it is almost filled. CBR, IND, DUO, sheltered work, youth care, the Caribbean and the veterans in the walk-in houses: they ask our attention and we are going to give them that attention. We're gonna do that with a look at the future. We are going to see what is actually going to happen in ten years' time between government and citizens and what is needed for the Ombudsman to do. I invite you to think about this together with us. It is not only the Ombudsman who determines the fairness, which is determined in the dialogue between the public authorities and the Ombudsman. We like to talk about our work. Maybe you'll find out. We are happy to do that with you in committee: in the Defence Committee the veterans' annual report and in the Committee on the Interior the report of the National Ombudsman. And I very much hope that this year's report by the Children's Ombudsman will also be discussed in the VWS Committee. If that succeeds, I will be satisfied throughout 2018 and therefore I would like to personally put the annual report of the three Ombudsmen in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to thank you very much for the annual report. From the annual report, but also from your explanatory statement, it is clear that your work for the year 2018 has again been done with great care and dedication. Through you, I would like to thank the Kinderombudsman and the substitute Ombudsman for their contribution to the annual report. The annual report of the National Ombudsman will be handed over to the Committee on the Interior. The Children's Ombudsman section will be discussed by the Health, Welfare and Sport Committee and the Veterans section will be examined by the Defence Committee. Those committees shall also agree on further procedures for the examination. For now, I would like to thank you so much for being here. Thank you! I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
