ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of GroenLinks, for her question on the treatment of young people with eating disorders. The question is addressed to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I warmly welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "For the past year and a half I've been admitted twelve times. Right now I've been on the waiting list for months, because there's no place where they can treat both my trauma and my eating disorder at the same time. In the meantime, the problems have got worse. I had no choice to refuse the probe feeding, because then I would go to a closed ward and be tied to bed by a judicial authorization." A father wrote to me: "At that moment I didn't realize that coercive treatment doesn't work life-saving at all, but rather pushes the patient closer to the abyss. Being fixed is a traumatic experience." Mr. Chairman. Every day I receive emails from young people who want help but can't go anywhere, because there are simply not enough treatment places. I receive messages from young people who are not being helped because of the lack of specialist knowledge. How can a physical complaint often help you directly, but sometimes for years you are on the waiting list when you are so mentally ill that it is only the question whether you will survive the next few weeks? The fact that there are too few treatment sites is now recognised here. I am pleased that the proposal submitted earlier by GroenLinks to invest 27 million per year in more places, but also more knowledge, has been adopted. But I'm also very worried about both of them. I have a number of questions about that. How many young people and adults are there with complex problems in combination with an eating disorder? Does the Minister have enough of that in his mind? How does the Minister ensure that there are sufficient treatment places and that we do not create additional places on the one hand, while on the other hand institutions in both youth care and adult ggz close the doors? How does the Minister ensure that there is sufficient knowledge about treatment methods? How is the Minister going to ensure that consultations with young people and parents on treatment methods are also held? Several reports show that they are often not sufficiently heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Care for children with an eating disorder, children with severe anorexia, especially when combined with another disorder that makes treatment even more complex, should be much better. That can also be better, that is my firm conviction. Partly on the basis of the same types of stories as Mrs Westerveld sketches, we asked at the beginning of this year at the vanguard of anorexia care in the Netherlands to form a steering committee and make recommendations and give us advice in order to achieve better treatment. I am talking about better recognition of the disease, better treatment of the disease and also better prevention of serious eating disorders. This has resulted in a proposal and an advice to arrive at a nationwide chain approach to eating disorders. We have taken that advice, so I have informed your Chamber. One of the elements of the opinion was to get to those centres of expertise. Mrs Westerveld's amendment to the budget has also made it possible to set them up as soon as possible. That's one. Two. It has been recommended to provide guidance on how to deal with these very complex disorders, including the use of compulsive foods. That guidance is in development. At the beginning of 2020, we hope to complete it. Then it comes to implementation. Force feeding must, of course, always be limited and, if possible, prevented. If there are other ways in the treatment, they will of course be used. When it comes to the numbers, to the prevalence, so about how often eating disorders occur, I say that at the moment there is no total number of them, because they are not recorded as such. We did ask that question to the national steering committee. At the moment, he has launched an investigation in order to put that in the picture. With regard to the number of times that forced feeding is used, we have the numbers reported under the BOPZ at the inspection. In 2017 there were 70 and in 2018 there were 50. In addition, in preparation for the establishment of these regional centres of expertise, we will examine the size of the group of children with an eating disorder who also have another complex problem and are therefore dependent on the regional centre of expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to start by saying that it is actually too crazy for words to say that we do not know how many young people have complex problems in combination with, for example, an eating disorder. To know how many places to go, we need to know how many young people we're talking about. That is a question that we are not asking here for the first time either, so I hope that we can see it very quickly. If we then look at the advice of the steering committee set up by the Minister himself, we read that they state very clearly that too little research has been done on the traumatic effects of forced feeding, even in the longer term. They say there are not enough beds available. They say patients haven't been heard. They say that public research investments in eating disorders, affecting the degree of scientifically based innovations, are limited. They also indicate that there is a gap in the investigation of the stigma surrounding eating disorders. If this is reflected in the opinion of the steering committee set up by the Minister himself, I would like to ask him how it is possible that we do not have enough knowledge of effective treatment methods and that at the same time we know that there are still young people who receive forced nutrition, while there are a lot of signs that this is not good for them. Shouldn't much more be invested in scientific research into what works before we apply so much coercion to young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	The order is that our own observation has been made on the basis of the situations described by Mrs Westerveld. They have, of course, reached us. We have also said that anorexia care is not doing well enough. That is why we asked the steering committee to make recommendations. We have adopted these recommendations and they are all being worked out now. How big is the group? We have to note that this is not known for the total group of eating disorders. A new registration system is being set up. That is being investigated now, and that is precisely what Mrs Westerveld calls from the background. Perhaps even more important is that group where there is comorbidity: several disorders at the same time. It's kind of hard to treat. The regional centres of expertise will be set up with treatment sites for this purpose. In the preparation of these centres, it must be clear how many children need treatment places. So that research is now being set up to prepare for that. Then there's the compulsive feeding. The professional view of compulsive nutrition is not as unambiguous as Mrs Westerveld sketches. If you were to do further research and then go on to compulsive nutrition, if that were a way, I would say, first of all, that I am not in favour of sitting in the chair of professionals as a politician. Secondly, we will have to accept that there are more deaths in eating disorders. I'm not willing to accept that. At the same time, I see very well the risks of compulsive nutrition. Those risks can best be addressed by providing a guidance that professionals give guidance as best they can in applying that compulsive nutrition, in preventing compulsive nutrition, in providing alternatives to professionals. We need to work on that. That guidance is therefore being developed at the moment and adopted at the beginning of next year and introduced thereafter. I really think that's the way to go. Let us pool the knowledge about anorexia as best we can and then use it to make it applicable to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	I certainly do not think that we should sit here in the chair of treatment workers, but I note that we do allow far-reaching treatment measures, when we do not know from scientific research whether that is effective. I ask the Minister: is he willing to invest better in good research into what does and what doesn't work? At what time can we expect that? Is the Minister prepared to make a good analysis of how many places it takes to help all those young people with complex problems? Is he prepared to involve those who have had problems themselves or parents better than now in the follow-up steps he is going to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	On that first question, I say yes. This guide is developed to make the state-of-the-art knowledge available from research applicable to practice. That is very important, because there is also some professional dispute between professionals which works best. That's one. Secondly, with regard to these places, I have indicated that we need to do research before we know how many places we need to find in those regional centres of expertise. Three: experience expertise is important. This steering committee is increasingly working with experience expertise. Not only children and young people with eating disorders are involved, but also their parents to share their experiences around the treatment. So three times, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	I still like Mrs Westerveld, because she knows the most poignant and horrible stories. It almost seems like we're talking about the system and objects here instead of mostly meat and blood girls who are really bad at it. There are now a number of poignant cases that we all know and which are now really being held under severe duress and even fixation, for which new treatment methods are being sought, but which are then sent from the locker to the wall because everyone says: yes, but I am not, in the end, the treatment. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he would like to make an effort to bring these boys and girls into the picture over the next few weeks and see what we can do with them in the short term. I find it really inhuman that we hold children, young people almost beastly in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	With that last qualification, I did...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	I'll take it back, so you don't have to do it in the Acts. It just reflects the emotion I'm feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	I share that emotion. I think we've all seen Zembla. We all know this casuism of mothers we've been on the phone with, of children we've been on the phone with, of letters we've received, of emails we've received, of work visits we've made. I share that emotion very much. From there, too, the will was born to do better, to do better structuralally. That's not about the system. This is about improving care in individual cases. If the question is "are you prepared to commit yourself to improvement in individual cases over the next few weeks" the answer is: I am doing so at the moment, just like the last few weeks, the weeks before and the weeks before that. In order to be able to operate better in individual cases, we will have to make structural improvements in addition to the fact that we are indeed interfering with individual cases without, of course, sitting in the chair of the treatment provider: improving knowledge, knowledge on the front, knowledge on the prevention of eating disorders, treatment, in particular the treatment of complex eating disorders which are also combined with other complex cases, with other complex problems. We will have to do all these things at the same time, because anorexia care, care for children with severe eating disorders, can really be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you.
