ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the debate on the Act of Approval of the Agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States on the Status of US Staff in the Caribbean Part of the Kingdom and the Exchange of Letters on a Convention extending to Curaçao the Agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the USA. By the States of Curaçao, Ms Pauletta of the Partido Alternativa Real has been appointed as special delegate. It will therefore contribute to this legal process. Welcome, Mrs Pauletta. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Deputy Minister of Curaçao, Mr Beginninga, who has taken his place in the President's Lodge. Once again, welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a treaty that the United States wants to conclude for their military in the Kingdom of SOFA, Status of Forces Agreement on Curaçao. This is an agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America on the status of US personnel in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. This already applied to Aruba, Sint-Maarten and the Caribbean part of the Netherlands and is now being extended to Curaçao. This is a reason for us to discuss the background and practical development of this agreement with the responsible minister, also in the light of growing tensions between the US and Venezuela last year. I'll get back to you on that. I am extremely pleased with Mrs Pauletta's presence. Welcome. Welcome, too, to Curaçao's authorized minister. I think it's very important to know what lives among the people of Curaçao. I also know that at the beginning of this year there was social unrest in the newspaper, strikes and demonstrations, because a large part of the population did not want to be involved in the conflict with Venezuela that threatened to flare up. This was, of course, mainly about the organisation of the humanitarian hub, but this treaty also created uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it doesn't take much effort to see that American political pressure on other countries in the region must also be considered when determining your position in relation to this treaty. It is also not difficult to see these plans in the light of the ancient monroe doctrine, which stipulates that the United States will determine what is going to happen in the rest of the Americas for political direction. I think it is important to stress that this is about self-determination of peoples and sovereignty of states. Only the peoples themselves are concerned about what kind of politics they want and about the political governance of their country. We cannot escape the impression that this treaty strengthens the US position in cases where more political pressure is deemed necessary, or even in cases where we have seen the threat of military intervention. We know that from history. Of course, that list is a long list. The American threats against Cuba remain. The situation in Bolivia has recently got completely out of hand. There has been revenge on the supporters of President Morales, who were expelled and resigned by the military. Although, in response to our input to this bill, the Minister denies that this is also about regional power relations, we can well imagine that countries in the area, such as Venezuela or Cuba or political movements in Bolivia, see it as such. Is this true or not? It changes political relations. I think we should also ask ourselves whether this is wise. Is it a sensible political step to allow American military to use facilities in Curaçao? What does it add to the possibilities and facilities already available to the United States? I'd like a response from the Minister. In April, the House of Representatives adopted an important motion by colleague Sjoerdsma of D66, which instructs the government not to support the preparation of military actions against Venezuela without an international mandate. Can the Minister confirm that the motion will also be implemented with this treaty? Can the Minister also promise that no cooperation will be given in any way, whether publicly or secretly, to military operations against Venezuela? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of additional questions. Why did the Curaçao Government request that this Convention be extended to their country? It is clear that it is for them magical reasons, but it is not quite clear to me what they are. Curaçao did not wish to participate in the Treaty in 2013, but now it does. To become practical, it is still unclear what the returns or benefits are for Curaçao. Can the Minister explain that? What's the American fee? What good would it do Curaçao if there were no taxes to be paid by the U.S. government? What are the reasonable costs paid for services, as laid down in an article of the Convention? Doesn't Curaçao think that's too little? Is it right that the work done by the officials of Curaçao should be paid by Curaçao for the Americans? Earlier this year, I mentioned the issue of the establishment of the humanitarian hub. That brings us to the question of the state of play of that hub. What about exactly six months later? One of the formal reasons for Curaçao's participation, participation, are the experiences with Hurricane Irma, it is written. I would like to ask the Minister why there would be a problem in providing humanitarian aid to Curaçao if the island does not become part of the treaty. Why, for example, was that not an argument in 2012? Can the Minister explain what the Dutch Coast Guard cannot do what the Americans can do and whether he shares the view that the Dutch Coast Guard should be strengthened in this case? There are big hurricanes every year. It is not clear to me that this has become an explicit military task. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there are doubts about the conclusion of the SOFA agreement. The agreement states that the US rules of law apply and not those of Curaçao. In response to one of the questions it becomes clear that the European rules of criminal law should apply to the American military. It's unclear what the outcome is. A system under which the competent authorities of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom are competent to prosecute is provided for. What is that system? Can the Minister explain that? And who exactly is covered by that contract? It says: both the personnel of the U.S. Department of Defense, both civilians and military, and contractors of the Ministry. What contractors are they? Is this about private military companies? I'd like a response from the Minister. It is not just a question of clearly defined military activities, such as fleet visits, training and exercises, but also of other activities. What they are is not quite clear to me. Can the Minister explain that? Moreover, the items that the US authorities consider necessary are exempt from inspection. The U.S. government is thus given far-reaching powers. Isn't this a carte blanche? Does the Minister consider this to be a restriction of sovereignty, which is agreed upon? I'd like a response. Mr President, I will conclude. You'll be pleased. You're usually happy about that. I know. It has been a long day for all of us, but that does not make this debate unimportant. We hope that this debate will give rise to improved and in-depth relations and contacts with citizens, fellow representatives of the people, ministers, politicians of Curaçao and other Caribbean islands of the Kingdom, and of course with the people there, for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Pauletta.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u5	Did you bring fans, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u6	I always have fans!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u7	It's not normally allowed, but I don't think anyone heard. Mrs Pauletta of the PAR, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u8	Thank you, Madam President. For us Curaçaoians it was very important to be present at the treatment. Today we are here to approve the agreement reached in Washington on 19 October 2012 between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America. But why are we really here? A false impression has arisen in the Chamber surrounding the SOFA Convention, the SOFA Agreement. The wrong impression is that the Kingdom would allow the territory of Curaçao to be used by the United States to intervene militaryly in Venezuela. This is a false assumption. Here are a number of points of interest. Firstly, the SOFA Agreement already applies to Aruba, Saint Martin and the BES Islands, Caribbean Netherlands. The States of Curaçao have laid down clear conditions for the government of Curaçao to act in support of Venezuela's humanitarian aid. MP Sjoerdsma tabled a motion in April 2019 calling on the Dutch Government not to support the preparation of military actions from Curaçao against Venezuela. In abundance, the SOFA Convention with the US, the Convention on Humanitarian Aid and the FOL Convention cannot be used for military intervention. This is separate from the fact that the Government of Curaçao and the Government of the Kingdom would not allow military intervention from the territory of the Kingdom. The Kingdom regularly concludes SOFA agreements with these countries. Now that this misunderstanding has been resolved, we can see how SOFA has been created. On 3 May 2005, the Status of Forces Agreement was concluded with the United States of America for a period of one year. One-year-old SOFA with the US applied for the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba between May 2005 and October 2010, and between October 2010 and 3 May 2013 for Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the BES Islands. On 19 October 2012, the multi-annual agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America on the status of United States personnel in the Caribbean region of the Kingdom was concluded in Washington. In March 2018, the current government of Curaçao, the Rhuggenaath cabinet, decided that it did consider it desirable to take part in the 2012 Convention. This extension was made on 15 November 2018 in The Hague by means of an exchange of notes between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America. The government's decision to ask for co-determination has not just come about. There are a number of reasons why the Status of Forces Agreement is important to Curaçao. From a defence point of view, there are many more training opportunities on Curaçao as the largest island than on the other Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. With this SOFA, US military personnel and civilian personnel may use local products. That would generate additional income for the economy of Curaçao. There is therefore an economic interest. In addition, fleet visits could be made from the US, which in turn lead to additional revenues for Curaçao. In the event of disasters, Curaçao could also be used as a hub. During Irma, for example, the US could not use Curaçao to help American citizens who had to be evacuated from Saint Martin. Madam President, I have no questions to the Minister. To be honest, I expected the approval of the agreement between the Kingdom and the US and the exchange of notes to extend to Curaçao would be implied. However, on 12 March 2019, a fifth of the members of the Lower House submitted the request for explicit approval, using Article 5 (1) of the Rijkswet approval and disclosure treaties. This means that a legislative process has been initiated. In view of the foregoing and the benefits for Curaçao, I ask the entire Chamber to vote in favour of the Rijkswet and thereby approve the agreement reached in Washington on 19 October 2012 between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America on the status of United States personnel in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, and the exchange of notes concluded in The Hague on 15 November 2018 extending the agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States to Curaçao. All this in the interests of the people of Curaçao. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u9	Thank you, Mrs Pauletta. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Given the number of questions put by Mrs Karabulut, I think the Minister needs two hours of suspension. No, I'm just looking at the minister for how long he needs a suspension. Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u10	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were actually witnessing a special duet between Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Pauletta, because Mrs Karabulut asked me a number of questions, which were then answered by Mrs Pauletta, and which prompted Mrs Pauletta to say that she had no further questions to me. So I thought for a second, I could have gone home. However, I have been able to discover a few more questions that Mrs Karabulut has asked me and which Mrs Pauletta has not asked, but I also think it is purely a question of why the Dutch Government is submitting this Status of Forces Agreement from my point of view. As Mrs Pauletta rightly pointed out, it is not very special what we are presenting here. It is a continuation of previous Status of Forces Agreements that already existed between the Caribbean countries and the Dutch islands in the Caribbean. These have always been concluded in the form of annual agreements in the past. That was found impractical. It always applied to the six islands. It was decided in 2013 to convert that into a longer running agreement. In 2013, the then government of Curaçao indicated that it did not want to participate, while all other countries and islands wanted to. The current government of Curaçao has indicated that it still wants to participate. So it's actually not very special. There are also many such agreements. The Netherlands also closes them with countries where Dutch troops are temporarily present. For example, there is also a highly similar Status of Forces Agreement between the United States and the European part of the Netherlands for American troops present here under NATO. So it's a lot of business as usual. Mrs Karabulut asked what the treaty would add. It adds that on the largest island in the Caribbean it is also settled what the legal position of the American troops is if they use it. This indeed offers a number of advantages for the island of Curaçao and for the country of Curaçao. That is why the government has now asked us to be part of it. These can be economic benefits. If a ship with crew goes ashore there and is spending there, that is economic income. But as the largest island it also offers most training facilities and there can also be a longer presence and associated income along that route. An important reason for entering into this agreement is indeed the continuing threat of hurricanes. That could mean that Navy support is needed. The U.S. Navy is the biggest there is. Mrs Karabulut asked: what can the American Navy do that the Dutch Coast Guard cannot? I have a lot of respect for the Dutch Coast Guard, but the number of aircraft carriers is really very clear. In the event of a major hurricane disaster, you may need a large hospital ship and indeed perhaps a flight deck shovel. You may need very large equipment. Our Coast Guard doesn't have that. It can therefore be very important for humanitarian aid that the US Navy is also available and can therefore use the facilities of Curaçao. Then Mrs Karabulut had a number of more technical questions about what the proceeds might be for Curaçao. In fact, these are the expenses that American staff can do. There can also be reasonable costs, as the agreement says. This has to do with, for example, possible tax losses because they will not apply, at least if they have been agreed. Of course, administrative costs must be borne by the country itself. The reference to European rules requested by Mrs Karabulut indeed refers to the Status of Forces Agreement which the Netherlands itself has with the United States for American soldiers residing in the Netherlands. It is therefore logical that an existing agreement has been used. Mrs Karabulut also asked who could be the contractors of the U.S. Army. That could be anything. They could be cooks, they could be cleaners, they could be electricians. Nor is that provided for in the Treaty. An army can work with contractors. Mrs Karabulut also asked for the motion by Mr Sjoerdsma, who asked the government not to support the preparation of military actions from Curaçao without an international mandate. As Mrs Karabulut knows, the Netherlands is in favour of a peaceful solution to the crisis in Venezuela. The United States' statements also talk about a peaceful solution for Venezuela. So there is no military action plan at all, let alone military action from Curaçao. The Netherlands should also always give separate permission for military operations from Curaçao. If there is no international law ground, then we really will not. Mr President, I hope that I have answered the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u12	Have all the questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u13	I hope I have answered the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u14	Okay, I'd like to thank you for that. I'm looking at the MPs. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u15	Mr. Chairman. If you, the Minister or Mrs Pauletta have had the impression that we have asked for this debate and deal with it in this comprehensive way to bully you or others and to waste our time, should that misunderstanding arise, then I would like to remove it. It is from genuine commitment, from our own political vision and the context of the tensions that now exist in the Kingdom with our neighbours. The Minister may deny it, but there are great tensions and threats, including from the United States, to intervene in the military. That they didn't do it... Thank God, I'd say, but those threats are there. There has been a rise in a self-chosen leader who has also acknowledged that it should not be. In this context, it is not surprising that we are asking the questions as we have asked them. I should like to receive an answer from the Minister on that point, because he has not answered those questions. Shouldn't those points be taken into account? I think so. And don't they make the situation extra complex? I think so. So it is from our heart, our passion and our political conviction that we stand here. Mr. Chairman. The second point concerns the economic benefits. This may also lead to economic disadvantages. The political position of Mrs Pauletta is quite clear to me. I do not think we agree with each other in this respect, but I am curious and I would like to hear from the Minister what the political benefits are. Finally, aid for hurricanes. Of course, that happened before 2013. This treaty was not necessary for that either. So I wonder if that is impossible without this treaty. With these words I would like to conclude my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u16	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. There is no misunderstanding with me, I can tell you. I appreciate that you are here and that you have made your contribution. In fact, there is also applause for your input. So thank you for that. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u17	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut's first question was whether the current political situation in the region, and specifically the situation in Venezuela, should be taken into account when deciding on this extension. As I indicated and as Mrs Pauletta pointed out, this extension was made for a very practical reason at the time. The practical reason was that there was first year-on-year extension and it was concluded in 2013: that is very awkward; let us conclude a longer-term agreement with each other. This whole history had nothing to do with the situation in Venezuela. The reason we are here today is not that anything has changed in relation to Venezuela, but that the current government of Curaçao has said that it would still like to join. So the relationship isn't there. However, of course, we are following the situation in Venezuela well and it also has consequences for the people of Curaçao. This is an independent debate that we often have with each other, but there is no relationship with the current application of this agreement in Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u18	Can the Minister tell us what the previous government's considerations were not to be for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u19	It is, of course, a bit difficult for me to tell what moved the previous government of Curaçao. He didn't want to. That is allowed, and that is respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u20	So there is certainly a choice, and it will undoubtedly also have to do with the political position and political considerations of that former government, as well as with the geopolitical relations and history of such a region. A different consideration can therefore be made. The only question I had to the Minister is next. He does not see the relationship, but can he understand the consideration of taking this into account in decision-making given current political relations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u21	I understand that Mrs Karabulut is making that connection, and that is entirely open to her. I would just point out that there is no connection for the Dutch Government, nor for the current government of Curaçao. I can't speak for the last government of Curaçao. Mrs Karabulut also asked about the economic advantages and disadvantages. They cannot be calculated, because it depends on how much use will be made of this agreement. I cannot make any assessment of that, because it depends on whether there will be a large-scale training. I do not know any specific intentions at this time, but I cannot rule out the fact that Curaçao will be chosen for a number of days off for the crew of a Navy ship. It is also possible that Curaçao will be a basis for humanitarian service in a hurricane. I can't estimate that. It is only logical that we should indicate in this agreement how, at the time the agreement is used, the economic benefits and disadvantages of the agreement will be dealt with. Can the aid be provided in the case of a hurricane without such an agreement? A responsible employer would like to have certainty about the position of the employees. That is what the Netherlands does when it transmits military. The Netherlands also concludes this kind of Status of Forces Agreements with countries in which Dutch soldiers are stationed. I really should be thinking, together with the defence colleague, about whether we would be prepared to allow Dutch men and women to operate from a country without any clarity about their legal position. I'd be reluctant to do that myself. I can therefore imagine that the American Government would be reluctant to do so. If the consequence is that aid cannot be provided or more difficult, I find that an unattractive outcome. That is also why we are presenting this treaty to you. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u22	My question was: how did that go before? The underlying question is: if more is needed to provide aid, and that is a task of our Kingdom, why not settle it? Can the Minister provide insight into this? So two questions. One: how was the assistance arranged for this? Two: what would be needed in terms of capacity to adequately assist in disasters such as Hurricane Irma? I find that an interesting question in itself. Mr President, if I may, there is also one unanswered question from my first term. I asked about the state of play of the humanitarian hub.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u23	How'd it go before that? There was a period in which there was a Status of Forces Agreement, also for Curaçao. That was the period in which it was extended from year to year. Then there was a period when it didn't apply. So the answer to your question is not, at least not from Curaçao, but from the other countries. You also asked what it would take. The Netherlands usually has one guard ship available on the islands, a frigate or a patrol ship, and a coastguard. But in a major humanitarian disaster, you probably want to have a hospital ship or maybe an aircraft carrier because you want helicopters. The Netherlands just doesn't have one. The size of the Dutch Navy is known. I'm very proud of our men and women, but it's not anywhere near the American Navy. Surely it makes sense that in the event of a humanitarian disaster, you want to have as many opportunities as possible to alleviate the need there? The U.S. Navy is the largest in the world, so it's good if we can turn it on as well. As far as the humanitarian hub is concerned, the agreement still applies, but at the moment there are no goods on Curaçao. They were deployed through Panama or Colombia, I think. But the agreement still stands. So goods can still be stationed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u24	This is interesting: the economic argument, an important argument put forward by Mrs Pauletta and the Minister, is going away. The minister says he can't decide at all. The last point of aid is very important to me. I have read well that the experience with Hurricane Irma is also an important consideration of Curaçao and the Minister. The Minister now mentions a number of things that I find interesting. Is it possible to send us an assessment? I assume that this is also on paper, for example an assessment of the difficulties experienced with the aid and American commitment to hurricane Irma. Can the Minister promise us that? There's no rush. It may also be by letter later, but then we can come back to that if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u25	No, because I don't have such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u26	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u27	The Minister of Curaçao is here and I assume that this is a kingdom mission and that this can therefore be requested. I would therefore kindly ask the Minister to go after it. If it doesn't work out, I'd like to hear it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u28	To be able to request something, it has to exist. I have no idea if there's such a thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u29	The Minister says, "I have no idea if that exists." Would the Minister like to have an idea as to whether that exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u30	I do not see the relationship with the debate we are having here. A treaty has been requested here. That has existed for a long time and already applies to five of the six islands. It makes sense for a number of reasons. One of these is the possibility of providing emergency aid. That is not a very hypothetical possibility in an area that is regularly hit by hurricanes. So the reasons for doing this are rather overwhelming. The reason for drawing up a report now, for which the information requested by Mrs Karabulut is in any case not known to me, is lacking, because the basis for entering into this Status of Forces Agreement without such an additional investigation is already obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u31	Okay, really, Mrs. Karabulut. 'Cause I don't think you're gonna get together if we keep doing this anymore. This is a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u32	No, I don't think so either, Mr. Chairman. That's not what I'm doing at all. What I'm doing is the information. As a Chamber, we have the right to information. The Minister uses two important arguments and so does Curaçao. One is the experience with Hurricane Irma. This Convention would facilitate the provision of aid. If that is the recital and the Minister says he has no idea whether there is an evaluation of it, my only question to the Minister is: would you like to get that idea, please ask? The Minister cannot say that this is not a relationship, because then he will take the whole treaty down completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u33	Even if there had been no Irma, we are talking about an area where large hurricanes occur with great regularity. Help is needed in this respect. We've just provided help in the Bahamas. We don't need an extra report or an investigation for that, do we? There's a hurricane season every year in the Caribbean. Every year we hope the damage is not bad, but hope is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u34	Finally, Mr President. I'm not gonna stand for this. I really think this is below the Minister's level. I don't dispute at all that there are hurricanes. I don't dispute that it's necessary. I would like to ask for further information on a point that the Minister is using, namely that this decision on disaster relief and hurricanes is indeed partly inspired by Hurricane Irma. I'm asking for more information. The minister says he has no idea if there's any further information. My only question to the Minister is: will you check it out and tell us what the outcome is? That's not too much to ask of our government, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u35	I have indicated that this information is not necessary to make this decision. That is why I do not think I should burden my officials with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u36	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I want to thank everyone. I would, of course, like to thank the Foreign Minister. I would like to thank Mrs Pauletta and the authorised Minister of Curaçao. I thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the officials, the messenger service, the clerks and the stenography service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-25.u37	We'll be voting on the bill next Tuesday.
