ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on marital imprisonment. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I'm allowed to speak on behalf of the PvdA tonight. Actually, I was hoping that would buy you extra time, but I know you're tough. It's a fundamental right to choose who you're dating, who you want to marry. With that, it is also a fundamental right to be able to end that relationship, to be free again. But many women in the Netherlands, too many, are not free. There are several reasons for this. Sometimes the separation of a civil marriage in the Netherlands is not recognised in the country of origin. Sometimes, in addition to a civil marriage, a religious marriage is concluded and the man refuses to cooperate in its dissolution. And unfortunately, that often doesn't work. I very much welcome this Minister's efforts to find a solution for those reluctant men. In short, it means that when divorced from a civil marriage, agreements should also be made for the dissolution of religious marriage. But why hasn't the Minister chosen a solution that also helps women who haven't had a civil marriage? We are opposed to them not having done so, but it is true that some women do not also have a civil marriage. We could solve that by adding it to Article 1:68 of the Civil Code. This would allow us to lay down an obligation to participate in a divorce insofar as it lies in someone's assets. Femmes for Freedom, for example, advocates that. If the Minister does not put forward these far-reaching proposals, I will propose it myself, with a number of colleagues. How do we help women and sometimes also men who remain married against their will, because a country of origin does not recognise the Dutch divorce? For example, Iran is asking for an additional religious divorce. This is a procedure that is incredibly complicated and costly for women. It can take years and years, and sometimes women just don't get it done to get divorced. I mentioned Iran, but there are many more countries like Pakistan, Egypt, Syria, the Philippines. What support do our embassies and consulates offer to Dutch citizens who stand up in those countries for their human rights to be free? Do we know which lawyers do the right thing for that? Can we help people legally or financially? Are we helping with connections? And what do we do politically? In Morocco, Dutch divorces are now recognised. That has been an important step. But is this cabinet also committed to agreements with other countries, such as Iran, for the recognition of divorces? I want an action plan for international political agreements and for consular and legal support for women who are fighting for their freedom, for their human rights. I'd like a response from the Minister. Today I heard of a woman who had reported to the police of marriage imprisonment. She was sent away because the police thought it was only criminal if women were forced to marry, not if they remain married against their will. That worries me, because how many reports have been made and how does that relate to the estimated number of women imprisoned in such a marriage? What does the Minister intend to do about the police doing more about this? Finally. Training a dissolution of a religious marriage can turn a civil marriage into a divorce. However, I did not see this point anywhere in Mr Rouvoet's proposals of the Platform Separation without Damage. I didn't see it anywhere in the Minister's reaction to this either. Isn't that a big omission after all? How can we take this issue into account in the elaboration of the plans by the cabinet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u4	In the Netherlands, people are free to organise their marital life. It's up to you to decide if you marry or who. And there's freedom to divorce. Any form in which people are restricted by others, thus being unfree, must be combated. Marriage imprisonment is such an unacceptable situation. Marriage imprisonment is the situation in which a person remains imprisoned in a religious marriage, against his or her will, because religious rules do not allow him or her to dissolve the marriage. This is unacceptable. Strings aren't above the law. We must free these people from their captivity and make the instruments possible for this, because it is causing poignant situations. In certain countries, such as Pakistan and Iran, divorce is not easy or almost impossible for women. People remain married against their will with all the negative consequences of that. We have a duty to look for ways in the Dutch rules to protect and free women in marriage, because the right to self-determination must be better guaranteed. My first question is this. Marriage imprisonment is a serious form of coercion against which action must be taken. It's a criminal offense. What are the circumstances in which criminal action is being taken against this and what is actually happening in practice? What about the knowledge of the police, the prosecution, the justice system, social workers and district team staff? We still hear that people are being expelled from the police force and that a report of coercion is not being recorded. That's impossible, isn't it? What's the Minister gonna do about it? In practice, criminal law alone, the threat of such a measure may lead to the solution of the problem, for example by the man choosing eggs for his money and still cooperating in the dissolution of religious marriage. Next, it is about the civil law possibilities to dissolve such a marriage. We must therefore look for opportunities, because we cannot accept that people are unfree and remain trapped and trapped in their marriage. That is why the SP proposed, in 2012 and 2014, that the Dutch divorce decision should play a greater role. It may include that the partner, usually the man, must cooperate in the divorce under the law of the other country or the dissolution of the religious commitment on penalty of a periodic penalty payment. The rulers didn't feel that way at the time. In the meantime we are a few years further, the case law has developed further and we have become wiser in some investigations. Now there will be a law laying down that the judge may be asked for a court order to cooperate in the nullification of a religious commitment. The Minister then writes in his letter that this point of departure is properly balanced. I quote: 'Don't cooperate in destroying a religious union is not always unlawful'. I've been thinking about that. I cannot really imagine a situation in which I think it is legitimate and lawful that someone should not cooperate in a divorce as one of the two parties that wants it, even when it comes to a religious marriage. With this proposal, the Minister still expects the victim imprisoned in a marriage to actively go to court to obtain such an order. I'd say the starting point is that a man can't be locked up in a marriage. We won't and we won't allow it. Then why don't we write that down in the law? Or am I saying something really weird? Moreover, the Minister's proposal is not going to help the group that has not entered into a civil marriage, but is only religiously married. Mr Buitenweg has already spoken about this. In short, should there not be an article in the law stating that parties should always cooperate in the dissolution of a religious marriage if one of the parties so wishes? Please respond to this proposal by Femmes for Freedom. The organisation Femmes for Freedom of Shirin Musa has put this issue on the agenda to a large extent. There's a lot of knowledge and practice there. Why is this organisation still not the serious interlocutor of the government and of the minister as I would like to see it? This could, for example, provide a good and complete picture of the educational material. I would like a commitment from the Minister to involve them in the policy. Finally. We cannot accept that women, against their will, remain trapped in a marriage, whether religious or not. We can and must do more about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All Dutch are entitled to the dissolution of the marriage. It's been like that since 1971. Unfortunately, the practice is that this right is not accessible to everyone. In February 2018, a very beautiful, thorough and comprehensive report came out that gives a clear picture of the terrible phenomenon of marriage imprisonment, including concrete recommendations. I am grateful to the researchers for that. I do have a number of questions about the report, first of all about the religious commitment itself. Because what exactly is that? For example, does this include commitments through a sect? I am glad that there is a great deal of attention to information. That has always been a spearhead for us, looking at this subject. How do we get to the women who are trapped? I found the words of my colleague Van Nispen about Femmes for Freedom right. Of course, they have a network. It would be nice if they were indeed the serious interlocutor of the Ministry. There is a great deal of attention to information in Islamic and Jewish circles, but how do we achieve the orthodox-Christian women? How does information go through, for example, Safe Home and social care? Are they sufficiently equipped to do so? Is there anything known about the results, given that the Minister's letter was written a year ago? Mr. Chairman. Another recommendation made and adopted by the Minister is supplementary legislation. The law would then include a duty to cooperate in the dissolution of a religious marriage. We're gonna get that legal treatment at a later date, but I've got two questions. Could the Minister indicate how this strengthens women in practice? There are already some legal possibilities, so to what extent does this law strengthen the position of women? The Minister also states that the judge should always be able to assess whether, in a particular case, non-cooperation in religious actions is unlawful in the light of the circumstances and the interests of both parties. But how do we check that illegality? I refer again to Mr Van Nispen. He actually said that it should always be illegal if someone doesn't want to cooperate. Can you explain that? How does the Minister look at this interesting bill, which I believe will still be discussed in the Chamber? All in all, the Minister says it's a fine report. When I read the Minister's letter, I find that he does not take on board many of the recommendations, or has a number of ifs and buts. I would very much like a more detailed explanation of that. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes situations arise where both parents agree that a child goes abroad and is married off. In such a situation, we are dealing with marital coercion and also abandonment. Sometimes one of the parents changes their mind. Sometimes we're also dealing with kidnapping. Does the Minister share that leaving behind can lead to marital compulsion? How does he look at this subject in relation to child abduction? Does he also see an increase in the number of cases of marital coercion and abandonment? In which countries are these problems most common and is there an understanding of them? Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at this, also with a view to raising awareness among professionals? Finally, Mr President. The research carried out by Maastricht University "Divorced, not separated" shows that people are very satisfied with the possibility of a Dutch divorce being recognised by other countries, as a solution for marriage imprisonment. Mrs Buitenweg came up with that as well. As a positive example, reference was made to Morocco's recognition policy, which has been reformed since 2004. My question to the Minister is therefore: how will this be further deployed, so that we can also make agreements with other countries? And what are the results of that? Has the Minister made any efforts to make these agreements with more countries? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. Many women are trapped in their marriage in the Netherlands. The Dutch law protects those women. They can free themselves from their misery and oppression through the judge. At least free Dutch women can do that. Unfortunately, not all women and girls in the Netherlands are free. Many girls and often young women do not grow up in the free Netherlands where our law rules and is decisive, but in closed communities, where only the retarded culture of their countries of origin counts. What do we see in these retarded cultures? There we see that the position of the woman vis-à-vis the man is lousy. The woman may be beaten. In the Netherlands, we call that abuse. The woman can be a minor. In the Netherlands we call that paedophilia. The man may have married several women at the same time. In the Netherlands, such a man is guilty of polygamy and polygamy. The woman loses her property through marriage. In the Netherlands, we call that theft. The woman loses the right to raise her children. In the Netherlands, we call this withdrawal from parental authority and kidnapping. Where the Netherlands has made every effort over the last 100 years to make equality between men and women, including within marriage, the norm, where the Netherlands has made every effort over the last 100 years to leave the remnants of backwardness behind us and to create a society where Article 1 of the Constitution is leading by all the laws that are passed here in the Second Chamber, the Netherlands has at the same time opened the borders to cultures that embrace backwardness and raise standards. How many girls in the Netherlands, who are now growing up in Dutch neighbourhoods, are not affected, for example, by the Islamic traditions? How many Dutch girls are circumcised by, for example, their Somali or Egyptian mother or grandmother? How many girls, sometimes younger than 15, get married to relatives or other brutal pedophiles? At the moment, for example, when the Netherlands recognizes an Islamic marriage, the Netherlands sanctions major abuses, offences and backwardness. Islamic marriages should no longer be concluded in the Netherlands. And the Netherlands must immediately stop recognizing Islamic marriages that are concluded abroad. Or do we think it's normal for girls, sometimes as young as 7, 8, 9 or 10 years of age, to be forced to marry old men? And yet it does. If these girls are then 21 and move to the Netherlands with their paedophile husband, the Netherlands now recognises that marriage. The Netherlands is now knowingly involved in trafficking in human beings and child abuse. That really has to stop. Mr. Chairman. All of us here in the Chamber want to free women who are now imprisoned in their marriage. But that can only be done if we begin to tackle the most serious abuses directly. And the greatest miscarriage is called Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u9	It is absolutely true that there are many problems with Islamic religious marriages, because they cannot be dissolved in the Netherlands if the man does not cooperate. Mr Markuszower pretends that this is the only religion in which women are in marriage imprisonment. At least I get that impression. Perhaps Mr Markuszower can also give some information about the fact that women can also be trapped in other religions in marriages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u10	The subordinate, nasty or miserable position of women within a marriage or even within society is, of course, found in many cultures. Even in the Netherlands, this inequality used to occur. In my speech I also said at the beginning: cultures. So it is common in many cultures, but we need to talk today mainly about the culture in which this is the biggest problem and where it is most common. 'Cause that's what you're gonna have to start with. I also read in the papers about the Hindu community or the Roma community. But the biggest problems, the largest numbers and the highest percentages of misery in the Netherlands in 2019 occur within the Islamic culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u11	Also in the Jewish community, 40,000 women worldwide would be in prison for marriage. I think it is important that we focus here on women's rights and freedom of women. The whole agenda of Islambashing is not really appropriate here. Because that's what it looks like if you use women's freedom for your own political agenda. I'm very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u12	I fully agree with Mrs Buitenweg that this is about women's rights and equality between women. Where there are abuses, in any culture, the Netherlands must fight them hard. But the biggest problem in this area in the Netherlands is that of women imprisoned in an Islamic marriage. You can only solve this by not recognizing marriages that are concluded on the basis of Islam or by prohibiting them from being concluded in the Netherlands at all. If we don't name it, we won't help most women in the Netherlands in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For a number of years, more attention has been paid to the subject we are discussing today. That is very important and very good, because we have repeatedly been confronted with poignant situations of women, especially women, trapped in a marriage with all the misery of that. When I was just reading my input, I remembered that Mrs Buitenweg and I were standing here at the interrupting microphone once, because there was a situation in which judges indicated that they were powerless. I really do like the cabinet of that time. The two of us were surprised and said, "It can't be that we can't do anything about this?" I saw that all of a sudden. We've been working on this for a long time. Even then, we indicated that more needs to be done. At first there was some restraint. It is good that this restraint has been abandoned and that we are taking a few steps today. Because the judges struggled at the time. The cabinet indicated that it was looking for a solution. But how do you end up finding a solution? A report from Maastricht has played an important role in this. That includes the concrete recommendations we are discussing today. That report is also the reason for this debate. So it's really about people who are stuck in a religious marriage against their will. This seems to us sometimes a far-from-my-bed show, but it's just a bitter reality. Not being able to marry again, not being able to travel to certain countries, to become socially isolated or to be completely excommunicated by your own community: these are all terrible consequences of being trapped in a marriage that cannot or cannot be dissolved. The researchers have given a number of handles. I am pleased that the Minister is willing to look into a number of points. He followed a number of recommendations. I am also curious to hear the Minister's reply to the criticisms made by my predecessors. I would like to say that I understand that the Minister is somewhat reluctant about his far-reaching interference. Because, of course, there is a dividing line between Church and State. The State must not unilaterally want to regulate how religion is to be exercised. Some people experience enormous happiness by making a religious marriage. That too is a force of society. But then we shouldn't be blind to the excesses. And then I don't quite understand why the Minister says he doesn't want to engage in dialogue with the religious communities. In Rotterdam, however, a project was launched to deal with it in the end. Can the Minister reflect on that? I think it would be very good if the Minister did have a conversation with these communities. There is a legislative change in preparation aimed at explicitly anchoring in the law that a judicial order should be used to cooperate in the destruction of a religious commitment. We have been talking about it for a while, and Mrs Buitenweg and I talked about it at the time, that fortunately we already see that the judges are working that way. The Supreme Court has also indicated that it can be done. That is very important, but I think it would be good if the legislator also pointed it out, and it was not just designed in case law. Mr. Chairman. Important things have been said. I think today I can take the space to add an aspect that is in the process of being extended. Because that's about the child marriages. The summer vacation is coming again, and we all know that's why it's also being discussed today: some of the children who leave abroad are no longer returning and are in a forced situation as a minor. We have taken a number of measures against this. In 2015 we indicated that we do not recognise child marriages. But we do recognize them as soon as the woman is usually a woman who has reached the age of majority. Actually, I think we should stop doing that. In fact, we now tolerate the situation and say: when you are 18, it is true. Well, then you're gonna be a bit of a part of that. So I want to hear from the Cabinet today if there's going to be a legislative change to make sure that we no longer recognize the marriage of the children who were forced into marriage at the time of their 18th birth. In such a situation, an additional step must be taken by the persons to allow marriage to continue, otherwise we will de facto still legalize child marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. We're here in the first place for the victims of marriage coercion. We are politically united in our abhorrence of the problem of marital imprisonment. I hope that we will be able to do the same about the solution. For marriage is certainly not a natural phenomenon that happens to us, but something that people do to each other under our eyes. The moral question is this: do we look away or do we act? The VVD chooses the latter, and it seems that this applies to more groups. How can we prevent new victims from marital imprisonment in the Netherlands? And how can we free victims from existing marital prisons? The approach to marital imprisonment is divided into five parts for us. Firstly, the emergence of illegal religious marriages. Secondly, the dissolution of it. Thirdly, the targeted information on this issue to potential victims. Fourthly, recording police reports, and detectives. And fifthly, helping Dutch victims abroad. Before I go into this, I'd like to say something about marriage imprisonment in a general sense. Marriage imprisonment is a dagger for the freedom of women. For the VVD you are free in the Netherlands to decide for yourself who you marry and whether you want to divorce. That freedom applies to everyone: religious or unbelieving, Muslim or no Muslim. Imams, for example, who make illegal marriages to Sharia, trample on women's freedom to be themselves and live their own lives. If these imams think that they are in charge in the Netherlands and can continue with this, then they are wrong. The freedom of religion is not unlimited, and in the Netherlands we did not lay it down in the law for the cat's violin more than 200 years ago. The VVD therefore wants to draw a clear line on freedom of religion. The VVD wants the police to always act against imams who break the law. So don't talk and say "never do more" but act as a enforcer with a fine and if necessary jail time, also for an imam. To all those who have difficulty with this, I say: read Article 449 of the Criminal Code, Article 68, Book 1 of the Civil Code and Article 1 of the Constitution again. To imams who want to continue to close illegal Sharia marriages I say: The Netherlands is not an Islamic country and is not going to be. With GroenLinks, we have tabled an amendment that ensures that, in addition to imams or other religious predecessors, others who cooperate directly and voluntarily in the creation of an illegal religious marriage are accountable and can be fined. I am still seriously considering whether this amendment is more appropriate in terms of content to the bill the Minister is working on, which I hope will soon come to the Chamber. But more needs to be done. Is the cabinet prepared to increase police awareness of the rules on illegal religious marriages, to facilitate the making of declarations and to make it a uniform procedure for making declarations in the case of sufficiently specific indications? We will seek the maximum legally feasible in order to facilitate the dissolution of already closed religious marriages through the courts. Is the Cabinet prepared to come up with a plan for better information towards victims of marriage coercion about their rights, for example through social media? What about the capacity at the National Node Wedding Control and Abandonment and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to help Dutch victims abroad safely and quickly to return to the Netherlands? Is this capacity sufficient now? Finally, the VVD is also very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to the CDA's proposal, as just formulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. This was the first term of office. I'm proposing to suspend for 10 minutes. The Chamber has spoken for 25 minutes. I see the Minister thinks that this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u18	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. I think we all agree that marriage imprisonment is a serious and extremely undesirable phenomenon. It isolates and hostages women, cuts them off to a new future and exposes them, when they enter a new relationship, to the risk of draconian punishment in many countries, in some cases even the death penalty, for adultery. Furthermore, serious social stigmatisation is lurking, sometimes even when it comes to children. Marriage imprisonment is therefore a matter of constant concern and attention for many parties here in the Chamber, Mrs Buitenweg and other members present here tonight, for organisations like Femmes for Freedom, an important interlocutor, including me, but also, of course, for the cabinet. And that's right. Marriage imprisonment is punishable as part of marriage coercion. Through the bourgeois judge, victims can get help getting out of their religious marriage. All this indicates that we find forcing someone else to stay in a marriage unacceptable as a society. Mr. Chairman. Let me run by some of the topics, and let me start with the things that lie in the field of civil law measures. In March 2018, the research of Maastricht University was presented. The researchers make a number of recommendations for a change of law in order to be more easily released from a religious marriage. At the end of April 2018, I sent you my response to that report and announced that I would come forward with a bill. That bill against marital imprisonment is in the making. It extends the court's ability to also judge marriage imprisonment in divorce. Delay in divorce can no longer be a reason not to treat marital imprisonment. The legislative proposal is currently before the Council of State, so I cannot say too much about it at the moment. Hopefully it'll come your way in the fall. I accept part of the proposals contained in the Maastricht study. I'd like to do as much as you can to protect victims, mostly women, from marital imprisonment. But I have some doubts about some of these proposals, because they also directly affect the relationship between Church and State and the freedom of religion. Can the State require people to declare for a religious ceremony that they will always cooperate in the dissolution of a religious marriage, even if this is possible within their religion only on a voluntary basis? In this case, does the government not too much concern itself with the religious commitment of the parties? Mr. Chairman. That is not so much a question of principle as a question of law. That is precisely the reason why, in an AO Family Law, I believe in questions from Mrs Buitenweg, I have explicitly promised to present these questions explicitly to the Council of State. How does the council view this? Then we can take this with us in the further development of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u20	I did indeed see that note the Minister sent to the Council of State. The Minister has his own bill, which, in fact, focuses on tackling religious marriages among people who also have a civil marriage, and that note states: can you look at more far-reaching options? But these far-reaching options have not been further expanded. Knowing the working methods of the Council of State, there will be no very comprehensive answer to that. I wonder why the Minister has chosen to do so and whether it is indeed quite clear to the Council of State what the Minister's intention is and what he wants to have picked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u21	In my view, yes, because we also refer to the Maastricht University report. I no longer have the note in mind exactly as we have sent it, but I think there is even a passage from that report to which reference is made. Usually the Council of State finds us when something isn't clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'll go see the note in a minute, but... No, I'm gonna do that. Then I can always get back to you in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp asked us exactly how we test legality. That is a judicial test, which depends on the circumstances of the case. The question is: does the husband who does not cooperate, for example, act lawfully or unlawfully? You could say that if a religion allows a divorce without one of the parties clearly compromising, you can expect the partner to cooperate. But we are closing in on the wording that you mentioned when thinking about the Supreme Court, which says that you always have to balance interests. I believe that this balance of interests will always or in many cases be positive, in this case for a woman who, so to speak, is herself a victim of marriage imprisonment. But to say once and for all that it is always, in all cases, unlawful, would destroy precisely the balance that is necessary in our view. If we see a relationship with child abduction, Mrs Bergkamp asked. Child abduction is the withdrawal of a child from parental authority. It is possible that abandonment coincides with child abduction. We do not have that kind of concrete signals from practice. There is a specific legal framework for child abduction. That doesn't exist for abandonment. What is the religious commitment and are also commitments made in a sect, so to speak? The law speaks of a religious ceremony that should not have place for civil marriage. The Maastricht University report shows not so much examples of the completion of marriage within non-religious sects. The question of religious or otherwise marital imprisonment is perhaps not important in that respect either, because one could say that partners should be able to divorce in all cases. How does this law strengthen the position of women?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u25	Before you continue, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u26	I was wondering, for example, if you look at the Scientology Church. Is such an organization subject to religion? I agree with the Minister that it should not matter: imprisonment is imprisonment. But how does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u27	Our legislation is not so much a framework for religious marriage and has no formal requirements for it, but merely states that it is punishable if a religious marriage takes place before or without civil marriage. That means a religious marriage in that sense is free, not determined. It could be in a church, it could be in a mosque. For example, it could be in the Scientology Church or otherwise. The point is: can you usually or otherwise bring women partners out of marriage imprisonment if they are against their will and if the other partner does not cooperate in, for example, dissolution? For what we are aiming at, the legislative proposal that you are getting, today's theme, is a way of enforcing that right. Mr. Chairman. I think that we will soon be discussing this bill and that it is an important step in the right direction. Then we can also have the broader discussion point here to what extent, as a government, we would like to impose more formal requirements on religious marriages or the dissolution of religious marriages. Because that's actually the pending point: how far would you like to go as a government? Then I'll make the transition to criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u28	On the previous point, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u29	It is true, of course, that we are going to have a very detailed discussion about this when we deal with the legislative proposal. But I'd just like to understand from the Minister where he's laying the line. He says: it also actually interferes with the freedom of religion. At the same time, we have noted that the Minister said in his introductory statement that the consequences of imprisonment can be very serious and that especially women, if they go back to their country of origin, can expect even death. I'm sorry, but for me, the freedom of religion is subordinate to the freedom of women to be sure of their bodies and their members. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u30	I agree with Mrs Buitenweg. That's exactly why I made a bill that makes it possible for women who are in marital captivity to appeal to the judge to encourage the ex-partner to also participate in the dissolution of that religious marriage. You say, "Let them sign such a form, so to speak, before they enter into that religious marriage." But then you're already gonna get very mixed up in the creation of that religious marriage, which might have something double in it. First of all, you immediately tell someone who wants to get married: you also have to cooperate if you want to dissolve it. Moreover, in some religions that is a complicated figure and at that point you would be very actively interfering. That's where my hesitation comes from. That is why I have submitted this question to the Council of State in an open manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u31	Then I understand there's a problem. I know that the Maastricht University proposals suggested different possibilities. But I'll never suggest that when you want to enter into a religious marriage, you sign something first in case you want to divorce too. My point is this. When people are married first, of course, civil marriage, but then religious marriage; sometimes, unfortunately, people are only religiously married and the woman from that marriage and the man does not want to, at that time, the man should be obliged by our Civil Code to cooperate in the dissolution of that marriage in so far as it is in his capacity. If he doesn't, then he's a criminal. So it's not about things you have to sign when there's a festive event. My point is that the moment you refuse to cooperate in the dissolution of a religious marriage, you have to see: hey, there is an article in the Civil Code; I should be in line with that. I want to make that article happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u32	I just said that religious marriage in the Civil Code doesn't actually exist, at least it hasn't been regulated. That also means that if you say "you are obliged to cooperate in the dissolution of the religious marriage," you will cross a bridge and say: we are going to record some things about it. While the route I'm proposing now makes it possible for a judge to give a lead to the ex-partner to cooperate, otherwise there would be a tortious act. In my view, that is just a little bit more purer in our legislation than what you are proposing, because I can also imagine that, if you go into more detail, that would also encounter all kinds of fundamental legal objections to the Council of State. We had a brief discussion on this some time ago. That is one of the reasons why I have now tabled this question. We'll just have to wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u33	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u34	The Minister is certainly right that his proposal is actually more purer. Only, it only covers a part of the people who are in marital captivity. If we dress up that bill in that way, a large proportion of women will not be helped, and I would find that extremely regrettable. So I very much hope that the Council of State will also assess this and that we will discuss it further in the course of the examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u35	The minister will be right that it is difficult in some religions to dissolve a religious marriage. But the question is indeed what is more important for the Dutch legislator. So, on that point of Mr Buitenweg's: a standard in the law that no one can remain trapped in a religious marriage against his or her will seems to me to be highly desirable, precisely because the State has an obligation to protect human rights. I would therefore like a response from the Minister. Secondly, I would like to take this with me at once. The Minister says that a religious marriage does not actually exist according to Dutch law. Maybe that is strictly formal legal, but Article 68 of Book 1 of course deals with that. It says that a religious marriage cannot be made before a civil marriage. The logical consequence of that is that if civil marriage is dissolved, such a religious marriage should never last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u36	I think we're all aiming for the same thing here. Mr Van Nispen has just raised the one point that is covered by the law. That says something about the terms, but not about the formal requirements or about the duties or rights you have when you enter into a religious marriage. I think you can also reason that, if you do, you're going to interfere as a state with religion. That, of course, is still rather complex constitutionally, but well, we have put that question open to the Council of State. The Council of State may find that less problematic. Then I am also prepared to look again at the proposal as you know it, as I did in the consultation. Moreover, I believe that the proposal we have now consulted would also help all these women. I say this a little in response to Mrs Buitenweg, who just suggested that not all women would be helped by this, that it would not help women who have entered into a religious marriage without a civil marriage, for example. No, also with this same measure, the same law, they can go to court to say: there is a tortious act here, because I want to get rid of my partner, and it does not cooperate in the dissolution of the marriage. I therefore wonder whether it is de facto a great deal of extra if you explicitly include it in the law, which is very fundamental, including in relation to the relationship between the Church and the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u37	Well, I think it gives a lot of clarity. It says: we do not do this in the Netherlands; in the Netherlands we do not lock anyone in a marriage. So I think that setting that standard would be very good. In this respect, I regret that the Minister did not submit this in this form to the Council of State. That is not part of the Minister's draft legislative proposal. It makes perfect sense to me. For as long as I know, the Dutch legislator has set the standard in Article 68 of book 1 that a religious marriage can only be concluded after a civil marriage. Then, of course, a religious marriage can never survive after the dissolution of a civil marriage. So the question to the Minister is: under what circumstances can it be legitimate to allow such a religious marriage to continue after the dissolution of a civil marriage, or even without a civil marriage, if one of the parties does not want it to? I still don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u38	Then I refer again to the first point that we have just discussed, that it is always a balance of interests. If one of the partners says "I want that religious marriage to be dissolved," you can in principle expect the other partner to cooperate, unless there are very serious objections. I cannot think of one-two-three of these very serious objections here, but the Supreme Court says: you must always keep that balance of interests in the air. That is why we agree with that in our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u39	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u40	But the big disadvantage is that the victim will have to actively take the step to court and make costs, when we cannot really think of a circumstance here that would justify someone staying trapped in a marriage against his or her will. I am very sorry about that. I think that we should not just refer here to the legal treatment, but that we are also having this debate here today. Then we have to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u41	The aim of the bill is precisely not to initiate a separate procedure. Where there is a dissolution of a civil marriage, the judge may immediately order that he also cooperate in the dissolution of the religious marriage. Then you have the cases of Mrs Buitenweg, who says: if there is only a religious marriage, how do you dissolve it? But even if you explicitly include it in the law, if you want to use it, you'll have to look for the court to get you justice. So there too, I do not immediately see what that little extra contributes. There is a fundamental separation between Church and State, but then, as I said, you are going to impose additional demands on religious marriage. I think that's a complicated one myself. We'll have to ask the Council of State about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u42	Of course, it is also quite difficult to debate a hypothetical bill. A little more general, I am still looking for the level of ambition of this minister, even in the run-up to that bill. I hear him moving around the freedom of religion a little bit. But I think, and I would also like the Minister to say: let us mark very clearly where the limit lies for us and indicate that the individual's freedom ultimately outweighs the freedom of religion. Let us really look at how far we want to go, not just how far we can go. And how far we want to go is: the freedom of the individual first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Van Wijngaarden and I absolutely agree on this level of ambition. If someone wants to get out of the marriage, we want it to be possible. We have arranged this well for civil marriage, but it also applies to religious marriage. And then the other one has to cooperate, too. Even if there are religious rules of play or if it goes according to a certain faith, you ask the other one's cooperation to end that marriage. That's what the bill is about. It's a little hypothetical. The question is, how do you do that? I think we have come a long way with the proposal as we are doing now. The variant-Buitenweg actually says: you need to include in advance some more conditions about religious marriage. Of this, I say: what is the added value of what we have already done? And: Do you have to want that, given the separation of Church and State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u44	In any case, I am content with the high level of ambition that the Minister has. I think that we are going to talk about the various variants and their precise implementation in the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mrs. Buitenweg wants to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u46	This is the second time the Minister has said something about what I would think, namely that you have to sign something in advance. That's not the point. The intention is for something to be settled in the law. Everyone else gets married, whatever they want. Then it is also clear that through that law you are forced to contribute to the dissolution if one of the partners so wishes. That's all I want. So I don't do anything in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u47	Is that how the Minister understood it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u48	I understand that in a moment. That little extra is in him that you express it in the law and that you actually give form in the law for religious marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u49	Then that's cleared up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u50	From the Minister's answers, I don't understand something so well. It seems as if the Minister himself does not take a position on a number of crucial points, but asks questions to the Council of State and then lets him decide the direction of the bill. I would ask the Minister to choose his own position. In the end, the Council of State does not decide what the law is in the Netherlands. The Minister can make a proposal and the Chamber can accept it. And then we can all say to the Council of State: thank you for your advice and for answering the questions. It is essential, however, for the Minister to take a stand. As for entering into the separation between Church and State, the law has long been doing so. Just as you can punish it if a church marriage is concluded without a civil marriage being concluded, you can also legally enforce that if a civil divorce is pronounced, which is also valid for ecclesiastical authorities. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he would like to discuss the role of the registered partnership in this area, bearing in mind the legislative proposal. We're talking about marriages all the time. In fact, a registered partnership in the Netherlands is almost the same as a marriage. Yet there is still inequality, especially vis-à-vis the role of the church, the mosque or other religious communities. Will the Minister take an extra look at that in his bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u51	But also in the marriage partnership, if you want to dissolve it or if you want to get rid of it, you can expect the religious really to be dissolved. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll switch to criminal law. It is important that marriage imprisonment is punishable as a form of coercion. Because it has a place in our Code of Criminal Law, a clear standard is set here. It indicates that forcing someone else to stay in a marriage is not considered acceptable by society. We recently endorsed this further in 2013 by increasing the penalty ceiling from a maximum of nine months to a maximum of two years. At the same time, it is in line with the role of criminal law as a last resort to resorting to criminal law only if all other means have proved inappropriate. Criminal law is often not the most effective instrument to combat marital imprisonment cases. After all, it does not solve the underlying problem, namely that the victim wants to be freed from marriage. The core of marriage imprisonment is often that the community still considers the partners to be married. Criminal law aims to punish the perpetrator, but that does not end the marriage in the eyes of the community. Criminal intervention can even escalate. That is why the Public Prosecutor's Office always looks closely at the added value of the use of criminal law for these vulnerable persons. A more effective solution to this problem I see more in prevention on the one hand and a very sound regulation in our Civil Code. Then Mr Van Wijngaarden's question was: how do you view an extension of this criminality along the lines of the amendment that I believe was tabled this morning to the current criminality bill? That bill is still at the written stage, and that means that we will include the amendment in it. The amendment aims to ensure that not only the predecessor of a religious marriage, but also the partners themselves and the witnesses in that marriage are given the duty to verify whether a civil marriage has been concluded before religious marriage. If not, they risk a fine if they are religiously married. I can very well follow that thought and I find it sympathetic on parts as well. At the same time, it is also a far-reaching and complex proposal, as this also leads to a further formalisation of religious marriage. Apart from an arrangement about the right order of marriage, first civil and then religious, our BW does not regulate religious marriage. Let me, for example, take out the witness proposal. If you say that the witnesses are also complicit and should also be punished or sanctioned, then the question is what exactly is the role of the witnesses. Do you have to record that? Is that everyone who was present at the fulfillment of that religious marriage? In other words, I can see some points in that respect, but I can assure you that you will receive the further written appreciation for the examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr Van Nispen was already there, but I just wanted to know if the Minister has completed this section on criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u53	No, I have a few things to say about that. We have also been asked what we can do to facilitate declarations. It's been done incredibly much. The police already have many possibilities to report or report as quickly as possible and as easily as possible. You can do that over the Internet, the police station, by phone, with a cop on the street, at the victim's house, in different places in the neighborhood, you name it all. It is also taken into account in the administration. For example, it is possible to offer the same-sex person to record the declaration. Additional expertise is also used where appropriate, for example in the case of honor-related violence. What I do think is a point, Mr Van Wijngaarden, and a number of others pointed to it, is precisely what is happening with the awareness of the criminalisation, including with the police, but also with other organisations, such as Safe Home. I would like to undertake to sit down again with the parties to see if this is enough on the retina for everyone, so that people are not sent away along the lines as they have just been outlined in the debate. We assume, of course, that these professional bodies know the law and that if someone reports a criminal offence, they will also receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u54	I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u55	That was my last point in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Van Wijngaarden?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u57	For the sake of clarity, the amendment seemed to be a slight misunderstanding concerning the witness. For a good understanding: the witnesses were only referred to as the witnesses necessary for the establishment of the illegal religious marriage. So not on witnesses in the sense of people present. I have already indicated that I am considering doing it with the Minister's bill, because it might be more appropriate there. Nevertheless, I very much appreciate a written appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u58	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u59	On the one hand, the Minister said that there was a clear criminalisation that was tightened up in 2013. But it's about the article on coercion, Article 284 WvS. It doesn't say "marital imprisonment." I understand that and it can be interpreted in practice, but in practice we still hear the problem of non-recording. It is good that the Minister will bring that to the attention of the House. However, I must point out that this has happened before. There are previous motions adopted, I believe, from 2013, which have also requested this. The question to the Minister is then what is going to ensure that, after this debate and after the Minister has had the opportunity to bring this to the attention of the police, we no longer experience the situation that declarations of marriage imprisonment are not recorded, because the benevolent agent who happens to be affected by the declaration does not know that marital imprisonment is covered by that general coercive article.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u60	I cannot promise that it will never happen once, but I do not think it is desirable if it happens. Sometimes you need to freshen things up. We also have the new situation around Safe Home, where women with a call for help can now go. We had a debate this afternoon on domestic violence. In those plans too, everything that has to do with unwanted, traditional forms is one of the points we want to give extra attention to. In that context, I would like to see whether all these organisations, police, Public Prosecutor's Office, but also Safe Home, are really aware of the possibilities available to deal with it through criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u61	Okay. Then there was another point. The Minister very much emphasizes the extreme nature of criminal law, really an ultimatum remedium. I wonder if this is right in this situation. I understand theoretically that in certain cases it could be escalating and therefore counterproductive, but there is also another side, namely: the person who does not cooperate in the dissolution of a religious marriage is guilty of a criminal offence and can eliminate that situation by participating in a religious marriage. I have just understood from practice that the threat of criminal law alone, the warning from the police: what you are doing is criminally possible, because the problem can be solved, because the man thinks: well, then I will go along with it and work on the dissolution of religious marriage. Does the Minister also see this role of criminal law, and what can he do with that science?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u62	I can very well follow that reasoning, hence the point about marital coercion. My comment at the beginning was: see if you can't avoid this situation much more through the Civil Code and an indication of a judge in the dissolution of civil marriage. Through criminal law there is the possibility that the police can investigate and possibly prosecute. This is often a long journey and women are not always helped by it. But I do understand the normalising effect that Mr Van Nispen assumes in the sense that it may also work preventively if you say that it is simply not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u63	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr. Chairman. Then there are some questions about accompanying policies. I have already said something about the Action Programme on Violence, which does not belong anywhere, where this is a part of it. In addition, during the past period sessions have been organized together with the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, OCW and SZW with involved parties such as the police, the National Node Wedding Control and Abandonment, Movision, Safe Home and Femmes for Freedom. In the coming period, the results of these sessions will be further developed in concrete measures. Then there is another question: what exactly does politics do internationally? In Morocco, legislation has been introduced that recognises marriages, but also divorces. We all think that is very positive, I think. Through Foreign Affairs and Embassy, women's rights, gender equality and the right to self-determination are also repeatedly highlighted in other countries. These are priority themes for the Netherlands in the talks with these countries. The question has been asked whether we can involve marriage imprisonment in the Divorce program without Damage. I will see how we can best do that in the future. Now we have included it in the domestic violence action plan, but there are, of course, many interfaces. Mr Van Wijngaarden had a question about the National Node Wedding Control and Leave and asked if there were any bottlenecks there. The Minister for Health and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has actually been approached by that node with two bottlenecks. One problem was a shortage of resources in the node's emergency fund and the other was insufficient capacity. 35 central municipalities concerned, which are responsible for financing, are addressed by both ministries to see if a joint solution can be found to these problems. How is the information from Safe Home, asked Mrs Bergkamp. Safe At home, both nationwide and per location, has a website on which you can find the advice and assistance. In addition, a campaign on domestic violence and child abuse has been launched, making it easier to find the way to Safe Home. People, women, who have to deal with marriage imprisonment, can go on that route somewhere. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether we should not also engage in the conversation with religious communities. This was done at very local level in Rotterdam. I find doing this national thing a little more complicated, not because I would not be willing to do it, but because, looking at the local domes, I suspect that we are pretty quick to agree that marriage imprisonment should be prevented. This problem often occurs within very specific communities, in certain cities, in certain mosques or in certain other religious places. That's why it's complicated for me to get the right people around the table. Finally, there was the question of child marriages, including Mrs Van Toorenburg's. She asked about the recognition of it and what we do when the partners have reached the age of majority. Let me be clear: we all think child marriages are very undesirable. However, I strongly doubt that not recognizing those marriages will ultimately help women in plighted positions. If you do not recognize the marriage as soon as they are at age, you cannot separate according to Dutch law. This means, on balance, that these women who are stuck in a marriage against their will can't go one-two-three to court either. There are also no guarantees for women, such as the granting of child and partner alimony. The failure to recognise a marriage also does not change the existence or otherwise of that marriage under the law in the country where it was ever performed. I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg says: that's actually what you're saying. But sometimes they're really grown-ups or they're a little bit further in age. The dilemma is that if you didn't do it, you would take away all kinds of rights once they come to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u65	Yeah, that was the last question? I'll take a look around. Mrs Buitenweg was there before. I call Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you. It was over before I knew it, Madam President. I mean the comment about what happens at the consulates and the embassies. In fact, the Minister said: we take the point into account in our talks with the countries. But I had a feeling I'd been a little more explicit in what I wanted. I wanted consular and legal assistance from the embassies and consulates, for the people of Dutch backgrounds who are fighting in countries such as Iran and Egypt for the recognition of their divorce. The question is: what do we offer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u67	That depends. For example, if someone is a victim of abandonment, has a Dutch passport and is stuck in a foreign country, then you can go to the embassy for assistance. You will then be helped to look from that plightful position to see if you can go back to the Netherlands. More generally, we set it up in the conversations we have with different countries. Mrs Buitenweg wants a step further. We are talking about women who sit in the Netherlands and want their divorce recognised in the countries of origin. That's something that's not happening right now. It would be a new task, which you have to wonder if you really would. Let me tell you the other way around. We sometimes have to deal with the foreign powers who want to interfere with individual cases in the Netherlands. Then we always say: we are not served by that. So I wonder if that's a passable road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u68	I would have no problem at all if there were people at Egypt's embassy who would guide their Egyptian citizens in the legal procedures in the Netherlands. They could also point out who is a good lawyer in the Netherlands, who can be hired. For example, they could also be present at the court, so that it is clear that support is being given. That is a form of support that I do not see at all as improper influence, but which can make a difference. There are now people who have just been suing for nine years and have to travel back and forth all the time, have lost huge amounts of money and often do not see the forest through the trees. The question is: what do you do for these Dutch people, these people with a Dutch background who want to get their Dutch divorce recognised, for example in their country of origin; people who need it to be free again? I think it is a rather lean response from the Minister. I'm considering making a motion on it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u69	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u70	I had two loose points about filing a police report. We really want to go a step further with that. It is precisely the lack of awareness that makes it not always easy and happens in a uniform manner. Those signals are definitely there. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to return the results of the national node, where discussions are to take place on the bottlenecks, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u71	Until then, I'm sure I'm willing. On the first point, the following. There are two reasons for this low-threshold: the possibilities that exist, which I believe are very low-threshold, and the familiarity. I think there's still a world to be won.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u72	The Minister states that women are more vulnerable if we did not recognise the marriages that have been made by children. I find that strange. So we don't do it when they're still kids. The same reasoning should therefore be applied. Then what stands in the way of getting married the moment you think you should stay in marriage? You can expect people to take an explicit action, which is to marry them when they're of age? We can't just think: it might be a bit annoying that they won't get any more money and that's why we only acknowledge a marriage to a 9-year-old girl?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u73	The recognition isn't there yet when the girl is 9. Sometimes it's complicated to find out when the marriage happened. If you do not recognise this when the partners are both adults, you can also damage the rights that women have to be able to divorce, for example, or the right to alimony in divorce. That is the balance that we are making. That is why we are now saying: we do not see sufficient reason not to acknowledge marriage once they are mature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u74	I continue to have difficulty with that: as if these women are in a position and as if these women are getting proper alimony. In the end, we are legalizing a system in which children sometimes have to marry many older people. When they're 18, we think, well, it's a little tricky to free them from that. As far as we are concerned, an extra action must be taken by women. Only then will free marriage be part of this democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg. I see you have a number of motions. Is that right? There's two of them. I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u76	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u78	Can I thank the Minister first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u79	If that causes you to run out of time, I'd prefer you to file the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u80	Then we don't. Thank you, Madam President. I have at least two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in many countries it is extremely difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain recognition of a Dutch divorce;]] [[Whereas people involved in such a procedure in the country of origin often need consular, legal and financial support;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an action plan for the consular and legal support of people with Dutch ties to achieve their separation abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas marriage imprisonment is a violation of human rights;]] [[Whereas agreements between countries to recognise divorces may be of great importance in order to prevent marriage imprisonment;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultations with countries such as Iran, Pakistan, Egypt and the Philippines in order to facilitate the recognition of Dutch divorces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Buitenweg, Van Wijngaarden, Bergkamp and Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-103]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Buitenweg, Van Wijngaarden and Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u81	I would like to thank the Minister very much. I know that this really does something to him and that he's working on this. Sometimes I think these problems are even bigger. I think a lot of women don't even know they shouldn't have a religious marriage for a civil marriage. I think a lot of cops don't know this and a lot of aid workers don't know this. So I think the problems are pretty big. I think that as a Chamber, we really need to work hard, for example with the Civil Code. I see the Minister's hesitation in this. Together with colleagues, I think we will come up with our own ways of doing so later. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. Then I shall begin my motion immediately, despite the fact that I had prepared a glowful speech for the second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas marriage imprisonment cannot be accepted because of the fact that people are unfree and remain trapped and trapped in marriage;]] [[noting that a law has now been announced which provides that the court may be asked to annul a judicial order to cooperate with a religious commitment;]] [[believes that this proposal of victims themselves expects them to take the step to court, while the norm should be that a person should not be locked up in a marriage;]] [[noting that this proposal may not help the group which has not engaged in a civil marriage but is only religiously married;]] [[calls on the Government to include the standard in the law that parties should always participate in the dissolution of a religious marriage if one of the parties so wishes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Buitenweg and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. We have already made proposals, in 2012 and 2014. Other colleagues have dealt with this much more often. I know that Mr Arib has dealt with this problem much before. In short, we are not here for the first time. I understand that the Minister says that we want to go in the same direction and that we want to free most women from marriage, but promises have been made before: on consular assistance and on improving police knowledge and assistance. It is frustrating that this has apparently not yet been achieved. Marriage imprisonment is clearly a mistake and a criminal offence and must be addressed: criminal law, civil law, information and through the consulates. Because the people who are victims of it deserve our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Finding that from the study "Well separated, not separated? An empirical study of marriage imprisonment in the Netherlands" by Maastricht University shows that the possibility of a Dutch divorce being recognised by other countries as a solution for marriage imprisonment is emerging;]] [[Whereas a reformed recognition policy with Morocco has been in place since 2004, making it much easier for Morocco to recognise Dutch divorces;]] [[calls on the Government, together with countries from which marital compulsion occurs, as mentioned in the studies of Maastricht University, to strive for the same recognition policy as with Morocco, and to inform the Chamber of its progress at the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u87	I have one more question for the Minister about child abduction. I think it would be very good if the Minister came into contact with the International Children's Abduction Centre to discuss the issue again, in particular the relationship between child abduction, marital coercion and abandonment. I don't think we know enough about that. It would be nice if we could do more in the area of child abduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to make one motion on behalf of Mr De Graaf and Mr Wilders of my group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Islam is not a religion, but a violent ideology diametrically opposed to the Dutch legal order;]] [[noting that Islamic marriages are concluded in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Netherlands recognises Islamic marriages concluded abroad as civil marriage;]] [[Whereas the recognition of Islamic marriages applies Sharia legislation;]] [[Whereas Islamic marriage greatly reduces the formal position of women vis-à-vis their husbands;]] [[calls on the Government to make the recognition of Islamic marriages impossible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Markuszower, Mr De Graaf and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr. Chairman. I continue to struggle with the Minister's response to legalising child marriages. I was a little bit further in my mind, which is to ban it completely immediately, but I still give the Minister the room to do a little more research on it. The next motion serves that purpose. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas child marriages are highly undesirable and should never be recognised in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that a bill in the Chamber was adopted in 2015 that all possibilities of getting married will expire before your 18th;]] [[noting that by doing so, the Chamber has firmly indicated that there is no place for child marriages in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that child marriages concluded abroad are recognised in the Netherlands if the married persons have aged over 18;]] [[noting that the recognition of such a child's marriage concluded abroad does not check whether there was coercion at the time of the marriage;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether or not it can be achieved that child marriages concluded abroad can never be recognised in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u91	I did this because there are other countries that are also having this discussion. We are, of course, moving forward in making it clear that these recognitions bring with them really poignant situations. So I would ask the Minister to take another look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u93	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment. I think we have a good introductory debate on a number of issues that we are going to discuss further. I would like to call on the Minister not to deal too cramped with the separation of Church and State and the freedom of religion. In that sense, let us clearly mark where the border lies for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I think the Minister has all the motions except the last one. Is that right? I hear him saying he doesn't have all of them and he wants a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u95	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr. Chairman. There was one more question from Mrs Bergkamp, namely the question of discussing with the point of expertise involved in child abductions whether there are any relationships between some of these undesirable phenomena such as child abductions, abandonments and marital prisons. I don't think that's a problem. It's about different phenomena. They can also exist independently of each other, but perhaps there are also interfaces. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 103 by Mrs Buitenweg, I advise against. I think it's too generic. The motion calls for assistance for divorces abroad. That is something we do not do in the Netherlands, and therefore not abroad. At least, we don't see that as a government task. Then the motion to part No. 104 on recognition. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. Then the motion requests in part No. 105 the law that parties should always cooperate in the dissolution of marriage. That is exactly the question I have also put to the Council of State. To give that judgment Chamber now would mean that I suddenly changed my mind. That's not what I'm doing. I can do two things: either discourage the motion or indicate that the Chamber may be able to hold the motion, because then we can involve it in the debate we are about to have on the law. In my view, there is also room for this discussion to take place more fundamentally, including the view of the Council of State on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u97	I think it is precisely because of the debate we have had today that it is good to see what the Chamber thinks about this and not to hold the motion. If, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, the Minister comes up with such serious arguments that it is really unconstitutional or legally irresponsible to carry out this motion, then we do indeed have the debate on it. But then the Minister has already received a direction or actually a request from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u98	Then it's clear: then I'll advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 106 by Mrs Bergkamp. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u99	Yes, the motion in part No. 106.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u100	Is that even a motion from Mrs Bergkamp? Oh, yeah. Judgment Room. Sorry. Then the motion to part No. 107 by Mr Markuszower. I'd advise against it. Then the motion to part No. 108 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Wijngaarden. I'd like to take that as follows. It is a question of investigating whether it can be achieved. Actually, you can, but there's some kind of desirability question behind it. If I could tell you what the pluses and the loves are and why we are a little hesitant, we could have a substantive debate on this. If that's the investigation, then I have no problem with this and I can give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u101	Yes, and I'll add the following. Can we look at countries struggling with the same theme? A small legal equation is enough. It doesn't have to be a huge exegesis, but so we have a bit of an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u102	We're not going to launch an investigation, but our own people will just check out some of the countries we like to reflect on, see how things are done there. Then there is Mr Van Wijngaarden's motion for a resolution. 109 with a whole pride of things we should do with the police et cetera et cetera et cetera et cetera. Apart from a number of things that we are already doing and the commitments I have already made, I think this is a somewhat unnecessary motion. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Finally, the motion in part No. 110. Of that, I'd say, Judge Room. If the Chamber agrees, then I can take this very well into the programme Violence does not belong anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u103	We have just had a whole debate in which there has been a clear exchange of views that it is not always easy to report to the police and that things are not as smooth everywhere. I am therefore a little curious as to how the Minister arrives at the verdict "unneeded'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u104	That's about the motion in part No. 109.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u105	I made a number of commitments. With these commitments, what the motion is asking for, apart from a number of things that already exist, has already been fulfilled. I refer to this uniform procedure and the possibility of reporting. I have already indicated in the debate that there are many possibilities. Now we are being asked to extend that. I do not see one-two-three in how we can broaden that even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u106	Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u107	If the Minister can explain it in such a way that he talks with these parties, including the police, to see where they can see opportunities to further strengthen what they are already doing, can he look at it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u108	That's not what the motion is asking. This is an enormous simplification of the text of this motion. I have already indicated in the debate that I am going to talk to all the parties about the state of awareness and what we can do about it. The motion also contains elements of which I say: that is standing policy; I do not know what else to do to broaden it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u109	Then I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u110	At the request of Mr Van Wijngaarden, I propose his motion (35000-VI, No. 109). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u111	That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-9.u112	We shall vote on the motions tabled on 14 May. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament, I thank Femmes for Freedom, who followed this debate closely, I thank the staff and I thank the people in the public gallery.
