ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the VAO Eurogroup/Ecofin Council, with Mrs Leijten from the SP as the first speaker. I would like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u2	Mr. Chairman. My first motion concerns the budgetary instrument for convergence and competition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance has stated that he can only support the fiscal instrument for convergence and competition (BICC) if the Dutch wishes are met;]] [[noting that the BICC option is still being discussed outside the multiannual budget;]] [[noting that the possibility of the BICC becoming a stabilising function is still under discussion;]] [[considers that the Minister should defend the Dutch position in the forthcoming negotiations;]] [[calls on the Government to block the introduction of a budget instrument which differs from the Dutch conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1608]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u3	Mr. Chairman. Together with the German and French Finance Ministers, the Minister has decided to set up a working group of financial experts on how to market even more financial products. Last time, I asked if they wouldn't be lobbyists. Now the CDA Minister has not taken a lobbyist, but a former CDA MEP who set up the banking union. So now a CDA member who created the Banking Union is going to advise a CDA minister on the capital market union, both dead ends when it comes to the future of the euro. My motion for a resolution on this matter has been slightly modified. There will be additional experts to that working group. In order to prevent the lobby being turned on again, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Finance Ministers from France, Germany and the Netherlands are forming a working group to formulate further steps on the capital market union;]] [[whereas the financial sector already has immense access to (Brussels) policy makers through the Eurofi lobby platform;]] [[noting that experts will be added to the working group in the near future;]] [[considers that the inclusion of experts with interests in the financial sector does not appear to be independent;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these experts are not associated with the Eurofi lobby platform,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1609]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation around Italy and the European Central Bank remains a cause for concern. Finally, the European Commission has decided to take the first step in the excessive debt procedure in Italy. You know, that's the rule that you can have up to 60% debt of gross domestic product. Now in Italy we are well above 130%, that percentage is rising and the Union is taking action. My appeal to the Minister is next. It is entirely in the interests of Italy and the Italian citizens to bring that debt back. That is not going to happen if the Union is weak. So keep your back straight and make sure that the Italian budget is put in order, for the Italians, but also for the importance of Europe. There's another reason. Last week, the Italian House of Representatives approved a motion to introduce minibots. That's a little complicated, but it's a parallel currency. It is the issue of debt between €1 and €50 and you can simply pay things with it. Technically, it's not a coin, but it feels like a coin, it looks like a coin, and it's a coin. To introduce a parallel currency in the euro area is quite a lot, even if it is not formally a legal tender. I would like to hear what the proposed response of the Eurogroup will be. Or is it really waiting for the real issue of the Eurobots? Finally, Mr President. The European Central Bank policy remains extremely problematic. Interest rates remain at zero or below for a long time. This has consequences for Dutch pensions and savers, permanently, in an old and/or new system. The ECB shall pay its fee for the buy-back programme. By continuing, the bubble in the economy is only getting bigger. The CDA would like to have a reaction from the government where the limits of the ECB's mandate lie and who it may indicate. Can the ECB buy all the sovereign debt, spend helicopter money and run TARGET2 into the thousands of billions? How do we ensure that the ECB is not the biggest bad bank in world history? I would like to be part of the report, and I understand that this is not the time to respond seriously to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I'll give the Minister the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Members for the follow-up to the AA we had last week. The first motion by Mrs Leijten, in part No. 1608, I must advise against it, because I have said repeatedly and also in the package that we first showed myself and when the Prime Minister, Mr Delors, agreed in December that we are not in favour of stabilisation. Mrs Leijten is now asking for this to be blocked, and I have repeatedly said that, should other Member States wish to move towards stabilisation, there is no room for the Dutch Government to participate. I do not see in itself why we should block it from the others. Then the motion to part No. 1609. Honestly, there's something strange going on with that. It has been the Dutch government's long-term commitment to taking steps on the capital market union. Why? Because that is in the interest of Dutch SMEs. See for example today's coverage. It ensures that money can find a destination across national borders, for example among SMEs. Moreover, a capital market union - see the United States - can bring a stabilising element into a landscape such as the European. It's been a long-term wish. My observation has always been that this can count on very broad support in the Chamber. I was honestly surprised to hear from the SP Group last week that that is different. In itself, of course, that is her right. Then the discussion with Mrs Leijten was about the people we should choose. They were not allowed to be connected to Eurofi in any way. Mrs Leijten acts against this more often. I have indicated that we would choose people as we always should, on the basis of expertise. As I see it, we have actually done so in this case. That's exactly how I want to get on with this. I want to see which people have the right expertise. I do so not only with regard to these appointments, but also with regard to other appointments. I will leave it in the middle if there is a causal link, but I think that Mrs Leijten, if she is going to roast, would see that it was mainly PvdA people and not so much people from my own party, precisely because we are not looking at it. So they weren't supposed to be Eurofi people. Now all three do not come from Eurofi. And then there is the following remark: no one else should be associated with Eurofi with anyone else who is being talked to or who is being recorded. I am spending quite a lot of time on this point, because we are really crossing the limits of reasonableness here. There's a kind of thought in there that anyone who's ever spoken to anyone there has been infected for now and for all eternity. That is not sensible, and that is not reasonable. We've managed to find three sensible people who are going to look into this for us. We will have an extensive political debate on it. I think that should be very portable for anyone who looks at this from a Dutch perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u7	Mrs Leijten has a question about this. Or have you asked a question ahead of the verdict on your motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u8	The Minister has already reviewed my motions. I have one comment to make, namely that we could also talk about the French and German candidates working at advisory offices in Panama Papers, for example. I didn't even mention that one. But I do think it is important that you put those who disagree and who are independent of that same lobby group in such a working group. I have already proposed asking Mr Bezemer to do so. The minister's never gonna pick him out, because he's not gonna advise on his side. I'd like to return to my first motion. That's what the minister makes a word game of. If I turn the operative part "is the government asking for an opt-out if a budget instrument differs from the Dutch conditions, if I put it that way, can he support the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u9	But then we end up in the category of "non-necessary motions." I have repeatedly said what the cabinet does want and what the cabinet does not want. Those picket posts, I don't know how many times we switched. Your proposal also states in the preamble that the possibility of the BICC being given a stabilising function is still under discussion. Apart from germanism, this possibility for the Netherlands is not under discussion. I agree with Mrs Leijten that in the situation that things are happening that we do not like, we could opt for an opt-out and not block as a burden resort. But I also find the wording flawed in other areas. And if Mrs Leijten were to meet us all the way, we would come up with something which, as far as I am concerned, has a great deal of superfluousness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u10	With all my love, I will take away all the considerations and turn them into one task, namely that at the moment when there is something that is not according to our proposals, we will opt out. I'd like to put it that way. But it is remarkable that the Minister says that it is unnecessary. I have challenged him several times, not only in the last debate but also before, to repeat what he said in the Financial Times in Parliament. But he wouldn't do that. And now he says that filing such a motion is unnecessary. I would also ask the Minister to say 'yes, we are opting out of the budgetary instrument' 'that is an opt-out 'if the conditions are not appropriate'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u11	This is about close listening and close reading. I have repeatedly indicated, also to the Chamber, what are the picket posts that are important for the Dutch cabinet. It is quite clear that we only want to agree to something that meets those conditions. That is the approach of the cabinet, and by the way, there is also very broad support from the Chamber for this approach. I have never recounted it, but I think about two thirds of the Chamber agrees with the cabinet's negotiating commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. Now that we have clarified this, I would like to move on to Mr Omtzigt's questions. Let's see... Let me get my papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u12	I'm sorry to interrupt, but just to be clear, the motion in part No. 1608 and those in part No. 1609 are therefore dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u13	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I shall continue with Mr Omtzigt's three points. Of course, I agree with his first point, the need for reform, and also the need to put budgets in order. I have repeatedly exchanged this with him, but also in the Eurogroup. It applies not only to the Member States he refers to, but to all Member States and therefore, of course, to the Netherlands itself. We, and certainly the previous cabinet, really did the necessary thing. Then there is his second comment. He asked for a response from the euro group to what he described as "the introduction of a parallel currency." We are not yet ready to give a response on behalf of the Eurogroup before the sitting. Besides, that's not something I like. But if he asks me if I want to put this point there and see if there is a common position, I will try to do so. But I find it difficult to talk about this now other than on behalf of the Dutch Government. In addition, I have to say that my expectation is that this issue will not come back to the next part-session, but to the next part-session. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt's last question was about the ECB. I understand very well the concerns that live widely in the Netherlands, even if you look at the effect of interest rates. By the way, we often zoom in on what interest rates do for pension funds. There is, of course, another side to this interest rate, which makes it possible to invest and which has also significantly reduced the interest rate on public debt. I think I have once again exchanged with the Chamber what the ECB's mandate is and how it should be understood. I do not think I have much to add to that, even since the European Central Bank is, of course, independent. I have often exchanged this with Mr Omtzigt. I now have no indication that a mandate would be exceeded, how much I can imagine part of the inconvenience that Mr Omtzigt describes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u14	I'm gonna take a look at Mr Omtzigt, but he's gonna sit tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u15	I saw that one of the Members had happily left the Chamber, but I think I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u16	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-29.u17	The motions will be put to the vote tomorrow. I shall suspend for a few moments and then proceed with the VAO Agriculture and Fisheries Council.
