ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u1	We are now going to have a debate on the General Court's report on cybersecurity of vital waterworks. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that this means waterfalls managed by Rijkswaterstaat, which have been designated by the Minister as vital components in the Keren sector and water management. Before I give the first spokesperson the opportunity to speak his text, I would like to make the following point. This debate concerns the General Court's report on cybersecurity and vital waterworks. A confidential annex to the report has been made available to the Chamber and a confidential briefing has taken place. Members of the Chamber may not quote from the documents presented or from the briefing. If this does happen, the Bureau may be given the opportunity to determine whether there is a breach of confidentiality and to determine the possible consequences. It will not be necessary to apply those provisions, but it is my duty to tell you this. Then we have come to the point where the debate can begin. The speaking time for each group is four minutes. I will allow two interruptions per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I actually requested seven minutes, but I got four minutes. So I'm gonna have to talk a little faster. Mr. Chairman. We, the inhabitants of the delta of Rhine and Meuse on the North Sea, have been struggling with the water that surrounds us since time immemorial. With terpen, dikes, mills and polders we have a hate-love relationship with water. Often we could run the water, but sometimes we couldn't, as in 1953. But through impressive civil works, such as the Delta Works, we have gained world fame and it seems as if we remain in control of the water once and for all. Turning the water has been identified as a vital sector. That makes sense, because millions of people depend on the reliability of the waterworks for their safety. Economic interests are also high. For decades, the emphasis has been on hardware, asphalt, concrete, locks, dikes and quay walls, but over the last two decades, the digital revolution has also taken place in the vital waterworks. This brings great benefits, but makes us dependent. We need to face cyber threats. Spying, sabotage, terrorism and crime can move to the digital world and therefore threaten the automation of waterworks. It is good that the General Court has issued a report on this. In her research, she looked at how vital waterworks are protected from cyber attacks. After reading the report, I wasn't really reassured. On the contrary, we must also take seriously the signal from the AIVD in its last annual report. There the AIVD says it is increasingly identifying activities aimed at enabling digital sabotage of vital infrastructure in Europe. Rijkswaterstaat is failing on a number of fronts. Thus, the strategy of detection and response has not yet been completed. The SOC, the Security Operations Center of Rijkswaterstaat, had the ambition to be able to detect cyberattacks directly in all vital waterworks by the end of 2017, but that had not yet been achieved in autumn 2018. That sounds very businesslike. If I make that concrete with an example, it may be life, but then I will break the secrecy imposed on me. The object Alpha mentioned in the report of the General Court and the working method should be enough to set off all alarm bells. Rijkswaterstaat also fails in the field of crisis documentation. It is outdated and for a cyber-attack-induced crisis there appears to be no specific scenario. The General Court notes that important documents are not kept up-to-date in the fight against a cyber attack on parts and that no pen tests are carried out. Organisations are deliberately hacking into these so-called pen tests by an hired party to obtain information about vulnerabilities in their security system. Why does Rijkswaterstaat hardly carry out pen tests for vital waterworks? Tunnel safety also plays a role here. Our group has often called for attention to be paid to safety in tunnels. The answer was always that we didn't have to worry and that we were okay with tunnel safety. After reading the report of the Court of Auditors, I wonder whether that reassurance was correct. Are our tunnels, precisely because of the possible cyber attacks, safe? The General Court comes up with about eight recommendations and the Minister replies to the General Court that it accepts all recommendations. The CDA is satisfied with that for now. It is clear that the Minister takes the problems identified seriously. However, we would like to highlight the following points. Many recommendations relate to the early completion of measures that should have been taken before, for example the linking of vital water works to SOC. This should have been done by the end of 2017. Why didn't that happen? When was that even done? The General Court also recommends that the Minister examine the current level of threat and decide whether additional people and resources are needed. That is why my question: does the Minister need additional people or resources? Are the resources sufficient or is MS-DOS still in operation? The General Court also considers it essential that the necessary information is up-to-date for a rapid and adequate response to a crisis situation. Pentests should be an integral part of cybersecurity measures in vital waterworks. What's the status? Is the information up-to-date now? Are there any pen tests now? In addition, the General Court believes that the need to improve the screening of SOC staff should be considered. Is that happening now? Then the fifth point. Mr President, I see that I am through my time, but it is good that you let me finish these last rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u3	Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u4	The General Court also mentions cascade effects. These are effects that a crisis in a vital sector can have on other vital sectors, such as transport or energy. Rijkswaterstaat doesn't have a good picture of that. However, a cooperation agreement has been concluded with the waterboards in order to be able to respond in good time to incidents that could have major cascade effects. Are the cascade effects in the picture now? And if not, when will that be in order? Mr. Chairman. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u5	I hear Mr von Martels from the CDA saying that the Minister accepts all the recommendations. And yet I see that the way she reacts amounts to 'I'm going to investigate first and then look further'. And this when it should have happened in 2017. You said it yourself. It should have been arranged then, and then all those vital parts should have been connected to that center. And that didn't happen. Then why are you saying that the Minister is doing it and that you are satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mrs Van Brenk does have a point to make about which I fully agree with her. Of course, those things should have been realized a long time ago, but we are now dealing with today's situation. This means that the Minister must now act on what the Court of Auditors has put forward. The Minister made it clear when she took office that she felt that there should be a report on it. That is a compliment to this Minister; at least she initiated this investigation herself. But then a clear answer will have to be given to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u7	Does Mr von Martels agree with us that the Minister's answer cannot be 'I'm going to investigate further', but that action must now be shown, that action must be taken, that this must be done and that we cannot see whether it has been achieved by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u8	Certainly, there must be action, but perhaps some research will have to be done first so that we can see what is the wisest way of achieving that and showing that strength of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u9	We all know that there is a huge task for maintenance, including cyber security. Is the CDA willing to make money for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u10	There will have to be a very conscious look at where the priorities should now lie. When you read the report in this way, you almost think that something must be done, also in the financial sense, but I am curious to hear the Minister's answer. In this report, however, there is what you might suspect can't happen without making additional resources available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u11	We spoke to the Court of Auditors this morning, of course. It's just very clear: without an extra budget, we're just not gonna make it. From that point of view, is the CDA going to make a budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u12	We will see what decisions the CDA will take on this. We await the Minister's answer on this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u13	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As soon as she took office, the Minister indicated that she wanted to work on cybersecurity in her policy areas. That is a goal that 50PLUS supports. In the field of waterworks, the programme BWR, Secured Works Rijkswaterstaat, was started and largely completed. Fine. So much for the compliments. The General Court noted that although the strategy of detection and response has been set up, it has not yet been completed. The Security Operations Center, the SOC, has been set up for this purpose, but the ambition to be able to detect cyberattacks directly in all vital waterworks by the end of 2017 had not yet been realised in autumn 2018. Therefore, Rijkswaterstaat could not detect a cyber attack on a vital waterwork until it is too late. This is, to say the least, worrying, especially in view of the fact that some regions are reluctant to take additional measures. Why are they reluctant, I ask the Minister, and what are you doing about it? In addition, SOC indicates a lack of knowledge and capacity. This seems unthinkable and undesirable to me, especially in view of the fact that no measures have yet been taken to detect a cyber attack in a vital water work investigation. The pen tests, the penetration tests, were just mentioned. These too are not always carried out. So once again, what are you doing about this? Another important question is why the above-mentioned ambition, which should have been achieved in 2017, had not been achieved by the end of 2018. What's going on with that? A number of waterworks managed by Rijkswaterstaat are vital. An attack on the IT of these waterworks can have major consequences for the Netherlands. It could even be a matter of life or death. It is therefore necessary that all vital water works are directly connected to the Security Operations Center of Rijkswaterstaat. That ambition to be able to detect cyber attacks on all those vital waterworks directly from the end of 2017 had not yet been realised in autumn 2018. As a result, I repeat, there is a risk that Rijkswaterstaat will react too late. Again, where are we at this time? Is that still the case at the moment? As far as we are concerned, the fact that funding is not regulated cannot be an argument, because that money should have been available by 2017. Can the Minister confirm to us that money really should not be a problem and can she guarantee that it is not? The Minister shall make the implementation of the Court's recommendations subject to the outcome of the threat assessment. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, no way! You can't do that. Anyway, connecting to SOC is necessary, because once again, this should have been done already in 2017. Now we have to get butter to the fish. We want a promise from the Minister that this will happen. Because if we all consider the cybersecurity of vital waterworks to be so crucial, and that is what we believe, we must do everything we can to secure it as quickly as possible. After all, threats must not be combated alone; it is just as important that you prevent them. That's the goal of a closing cybersecurity. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. All in all, 50PLUS remains left with an uncomfortable feeling. We feel the same way when we have delayed maintenance on roads and bridges. We're gonna talk about that soon. We expect clear answers and decisive action from this minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. The General Court published a report on the cybersecurity of our waterworks. You have said exactly what this means: the tunnels, the dikes, the locks and the quays in our country, which protect us from the water. We all know what this could mean. Many of these waterworks are equipped with automation systems from the 1990s. Over the years they have been linked to networks to enable remote reading and operation, but this has, of course, increased vulnerability. A hack could damage you as an IT guy. The VVD wants ICT to be in order in the vital waterworks. Of course, everything can be cracked if you want to be angry, but the important thing is that we don't lose control ourselves. It is not just about the hardware or the software, but also about the mindware, the culture, and how you deal with your staff. Has your staff been screened? Of course, that could be the weakest link in the whole chain story. I'd like a response from the Minister to the screening of people. The VVD and the Netherlands also want to be reassured. The importance of our safety is paramount. As far as we are concerned, there is sufficient regulation. The instruments are there, too. So it comes down to the execution. Are you ready if anyone wants to hurt you? We need to prevent someone breaking into the digital environment and thereby influencing the functioning of the vital waterworks, with all the dangers of that. It is also important to note that the Minister himself identified a number of waterworks as vital when she took office. So she started it herself, also because I think she sees what it can mean. There is also a great deal: a letter revision Strategy National Security, the recalibrated vital infrastructure and the improvement of crisis management 2015, a Decision and law reporting cybersecurity 2017, the Security Network and Information Systems Decision, regulations, EU directives, a Code of Criminal Procedure on Computer Crime and, of course, recently the Intelligence and Security Services Act. These are all matters for which the VVD has also worked. They must ensure that the public authorities can see and guarantee national security as a core task. Although we are now legally up to the threat and the modern means of communication, we are not there yet, because if only 60% has been carried out by Rijkswaterstaat, there is no doubt that there is still work to be done to achieve the necessary level of protection. Then it is not enough just to adopt all the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. That's too easy. If we want to take the Court's signal seriously, we must also understand progress every year. The Minister should inform us about this. The VVD therefore wants the Minister to continue to improve the automation and security of our waterworks. I would like to know for myself what time, money or manpower is needed to better protect the safety of our water infrastructure from cyber-terrorists or people who simply mean evil. After all, the consequences can be great. I wonder to what extent we invent the wheel each time. Can we learn, especially when it comes to cybersecurity, from other departments where these kinds of things play? Is Rijkswaterstaat doing this project alone, or is this cooperation relevant? Whether it's with Defense, with ICT projects, with telecoms, with JenV: everywhere and at every level there's an approach to counter cyber abuse. Could the knowledge of this over-arching within the government help? How does the Minister view this? The cabinet made 95 million available in the coalition agreement. To what extent can Rijkswaterstaat or the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State draw from this? Our main digital systems and networks simply need to be properly protected. We must not give criminals the chance to shut down the Netherlands with a cyber attack. In doing so, the Minister must clearly state what she needs. Then the VVD wants to help her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. Imagine this. It is 2030 and the 5G network has been rolled out by a Chinese state-owned company. All dams are connected to this network. Meanwhile, a northwesterly storm is on its way, increasing to hurricane power. The Netherlands, of course, is counting on its ICT. Meanwhile, China is looking to tackle European countries. A cyberattack is being carried out on one of the reverses. The Netherlands would be in a panic. You understand we're just not gonna let it get that far. Not at the front, by limiting Chinese interference in the roll-out of our digital networks, but also at the back, by ensuring that our ICT systems are in order, especially in vulnerable objects such as water barriers. I'd like to compliment the Minister from here on out. As 50PLUS pointed out earlier, she started working on this issue as soon as she arrived. I think she is pleased that the General Court has taken a critical look at this. The Court of Auditors indicates that Rijkswaterstaat has done a lot in recent years, but that more needs to be done because it is not yet in order. Hackers employed by the Court of Auditors managed to penetrate the ICT system in a particular object. It is important for the Minister to ensure that all the recommendations contained in the report are implemented swiftly. I'm guessing it's a rhetorical question, but is she going to? Mr. Chairman. I have three specific points to make. The Minister wants to make the follow-up of the recommendations dependent on the threat images obtained from the investigation. However, the Court of Auditors warns that some of these recommendations concern measures that should have been taken earlier. In other words, get to work and don't wait for those threat images. I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at this. The Court also points out that it is crucial to carry out so-called pen tests, so knowingly hacking to see where those vulnerabilities are. But I read that Rijkswaterstaat doesn't want to deal with this because it would be too risky. I'm very curious why that's too risky and why it's not just done. I'd say that's what you need to expose your vulnerabilities, isn't it? Last but not least, it has already been mentioned: there is no separate budget for the programme Secured Works Rijkswaterstaat, and that is when we see that there are still solid successes to be made. In practice, this results in delays and delays. How's the secretary gonna prevent that? Because money shouldn't be the problem. Following on from what the previous speaker, Mr Dijkstra, said, let the Minister just state what is necessary and then we will have to ensure that that budget is included. Mr President, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mr. Schonis of D66, it's time for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with remarkable news. Yesterday, a laptop was sold for 1.1 million euros. That laptop contains the six most dangerous computer viruses, such as ILOVEYOU, Mydom and WannaCry. Worldwide, these viruses have caused more than 85 billion dollars of damage. The artist Guo O Dong has turned the laptop into a work of art to draw attention to the risks of digitalisation in our society. Mr. Chairman. From Guo O Dong's work of art, it is only a small step towards the cybersecurity of our own wet artworks. As a Zeeuw, the safety of water works is, of course, very much at my heart. The doom scenario that Mr Stoffer just outlined is, of course, something that you as a Zeeuw take into account. The subject of Guo O Dong that he draws attention to is a very important topic in our vital wet infrastructure. I therefore welcome the in-depth examination of the Court of Auditors and the recommendations that have been presented. We must take seriously the conclusion that digital security is not yet in order. The Minister sees the research as supporting the policy that she has put in place, but as far as we are concerned, one more step should be taken. For example, the Court notes that not all vital works of art are capable of detecting cyberattacks. What is the Minister doing with this conclusion and what action is it going to take in the short term? Is it prepared not to connect vital water works to the Internet for the time being in order to reduce the risks of attacks in this way? But also on other recommendations from the study, D66 expects the Minister to take action quickly. For example, the Court recommends investigating the current threat level of a cyber attack on the vital waterworks. This must be done quickly because the Minister wants to complete the programme Secured Works Rijkswaterstaat, the BWR, quickly. Is the Minister prepared to carry out this study before the end of the summer recess and can the remaining measures from the BWR programme still be worked on in the autumn? Then there are the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on strengthening the screening level of the employees of the Security Operations Center, the SOC. Can the Minister undertake to provide concrete measures on this matter before the end of the summer recess? This should have happened in 2017. Finally, the pen tests, i.e. the impact tests. As far as D66 is concerned, pen tests are an important part of cybersecurity. However, Rijkswaterstaat says that pen tests for certain works of art would be risky. The Court makes recommendations to make these risks explicit. Eventually, the pen test must be an integral part of the cybersecurity of all artworks. Does the Minister agree with us? I read that the Minister is going to investigate the possibility of pen tests. When can we see the results of this? Mr President, I will conclude. At the Oosterscheldebarrier the poem of Ed Leeflang is chiseled in concrete. That one-line poem reads as follows: "Here go the tide, the moon the wind and us." I hope we do not have to replace this fine line of poetry with: 'Who is really going about the tide, the moon a hacker or us?'. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors examined the cybersecurity of our waterworks and notes a large number of different problems, which are also not always interrelated. In fact, I hear a lot of the same concerns from the various members of our committee. It's partly in technology and it's partly in administrative arrangements, but to start with, it's not even clear what the risk is and how big it is. That, of course, makes it even more difficult to defend ourselves against it. The minister said she's working on a digital cyber strategy. It must be made clear whether, where and when there are threats. It should be noted that threats are constantly changing and renewing. That is, of course, part of the risks. So we need to arm ourselves against an attack that we couldn't have figured out ourselves. For this dossier, it must mean that evildoers cannot penetrate the networks through shielded networks, secure computers, protocols and proper supervision. This is, of course, true today for every public service and every company, but certainly for our waterworks. Last week's work visit to Rijkswaterstaat made that very clear once again. How do we get a better view of the risks, I ask the Minister. The Court notes, and this point was made earlier, that many of the automation systems are from the 1980s and 1990s. Rijkswaterstaat indicates that it does not want to focus on more modern systems, but on detection and response. But shouldn't we be modernising those old computer systems anyway? And if there is no money and there are no plans to replace those systems, isn't that a reason for a very separate debate? Then with regard to detection and response. The question is indeed: is there sufficient capacity in SOC? Does the Minister foresee that we should invest heavily in this? That's another money question. Mr. Chairman. That physical infrastructure takes money and time to renew and modernise, I understand very well. But the Court also notes that the implementation of measures and the enforcement of inspections are not enforced in all regions. What possibilities does the Minister see for resolving this problem, and for putting Rijkswaterstaat and SOC in a better position? The Court further notes that the objectives have not been achieved, the implementation has not been completed, the documentation appears to be outdated and the maintenance contracts stand in the way of security. It's a whole range of spicy qualifications, which you wouldn't want to see or read in any survey. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this. One more question: to what extent are these vital waterworks standalone? So to what extent is it that an emergency generator doesn't work without the authorization of a computer 200 kilometers away? Can the Minister reassure us that the main installations can also perform their main functions autonomously? Finally. There have been more frequent discussions and questions in other committees about whether and which foreign companies are allowed to participate in tender for sensitive contracts and vital infrastructure, for example when it comes to our 5G network. What about the security of our waterworks? How do we ensure that WTO rules do not force us to put the control of our waterworks in strange hands? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Then we get Mr. Drost from the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You shouldn't think that the Maeslant barrier, for example, has to close with spring tide because of a flying storm, but that it remains open due to a cyber attack. The social disruption and the economic damage could be immense. With this in mind, I prepared my contribution this afternoon. Fortunately, in the Netherlands everything is aimed at preventing another flood disaster. After the government in the 20th century always reacted to a disaster, after the Zuiderzeeramp in 1916, the flood disaster in 1953 and the near-crash in the river region in 1993 and 1995, about ten years ago, and with the start of the Delta programme, it became explicit that the aim of investing in water safety was to stay ahead of another disaster. It is a beautiful approach that is unique in the world. It's a sensible approach. And of course it is a logical approach, with a quarter of our land below sea level and almost 60% that is floodable. To give that protection hands and feet, we have a sophisticated system of dams, dunes, dikes and quays. Those quay walls have movable parts, which are operated by digitised processes. That's where cyber security comes in. Cyber attacks are a relatively new threat that we need to arm ourselves against, especially with this vital physical infrastructure, which is essential for the safe survival of our country. Before I go into that further, I would like to thank the General Court for its investigation into how vital water works are protected from cyber attacks. The Court of Auditors is referring to deliberate attempts to cause damage. To protect you from that, there's cybersecurity. This is the whole range of measures to prevent damage caused by disruption, breakdown or misuse of ICT, and if it has been created. Because processes are highly digitised, vital infrastructure, including waterworks, is more vulnerable than ever to cyber attacks. This study and the recommendations are therefore very relevant. Mr. Chairman. The conclusions and recommendations are clear and good, from cascade effects to better screening of staff. The Minister undertakes to accept all recommendations. She said that many of the recommendations depend on the follow-up to the first recommendation on the indication of the level of threat. In its response, the Court of Auditors noted with interest that a number of its recommendations concerned the early completion of measures which should have been taken earlier. They aim, for example, at connecting these vital waterworks to the SOC, the Security Operations Center, so that more in-depth and up-to-date insight into these waterworks. This should have been achieved by the end of 2017 and is therefore not dependent on the first recommendation. In short, the Court considers that the Minister is hiding behind the first recommendation. My question then is: how does the Minister respond to this? What is the current position in eliminating this kind of behind-the-clock action points? And what can the Minister say about the allocation of any additional resources needed for this, for example for the development of SOC? Mr. Chairman. For the sake of understanding, during the work visit last Monday to Rijkswaterstaat I was impressed by how actively they are working to secure vital infrastructure and digital processes against cyber attacks. It is also clear that there have been no real accidents with cyber attacks so far. The question remains whether what we are doing is enough at this time of increasing cyber threat. How does the Minister view this? Is cooperation between Rijkswaterstaat and water boards sufficiently intensive and effective on the one hand and security services and the like on the other? I mean this question not only from the RWS side of the spectrum, but also from the security services themselves. How proactive is RWS warned by, for example, AIVD or STUD with regard to any cyber attacks from any troll factory or foreign power? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come back to the example I started with, the Maeslantkering. I have a specific question about the faalkans. There is always a lot to do about that, and that makes sense, as the faalkans affect the actual level of protection. The best known example of a discussion about the faalkans is that of the Maeslantkering. In the design of this marvellous barrier, a faalkans of 1 to 1,000 is assumed. In practice, however, it is much higher. A few years ago there was even talk of 1 in 100. My question in this debate is: to what extent does the risk of cyberattacks work or not in the faalkans of waterworks in general and of Maeslantkering in particular? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you, Mr. Drost. Finally, Mr Van Aalst of the PVV has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The conclusions drawn by the General Court of Auditors on the cybersecurity situation of our vital waterworks are harsh. During the implementation of the program Secured Works Rijkswaterstaat has not succeeded in achieving all the goals set, the establishment of the Security Operations Centre has not yet been completed, important documentation from Rijkwaterstaat to be able to resist attacks is outdated and finally Rijkswaterstaat tests the measures they have against attacks, hardly with pen tests. It is not a good list, especially if we are aware of what is at stake. Because if cybersecurity fails, our country's security is at stake. If the waterworks are attacked and can be controlled by third parties, the damage cannot be overseen. It is a danger that we cannot afford to fight against water. The Minister states that the removal of risks by modernising the systems according to Rijkswaterstaat is technically challenging and costly. Rijkswaterstaat therefore focuses in particular on the alerting of a cyber attack and a rapid response to defuse that attack. In both areas, Rijkswaterstaat still needs to take steps to meet its own cybersecurity objectives. The PVV is deeply concerned about this. In short, things are just not in order. The Minister must work hard to prevent Al-Qaeda from hacking into our waterworks. The PVV therefore asks the following final question: when is security in order and how does the Minister guarantee that the safety of the Netherlands will not be at stake during this interim period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. Then we'll listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u28	We will continue the debate on the General Court's report on cybersecurity of vital waterworks. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you. Chairman. We have a very interesting subject to discuss this afternoon. I am glad that the Members of Parliament have all been so serious about this, because it is not for nothing about the vital interests of our country. I would like to begin by thanking the General Court for the thorough research they have done. A number of MPs recalled that as well. From the very beginning of my appointment, I have also explicitly chosen cybersecurity as a point of interest. This, of course, also had to do with the fact that, in my previous place in the European Parliament, I have also dealt a great deal with digitisation and cybersecurity. I have also seen in a European context, where ENISA is the club that monitors this for Europe, how vulnerable we are all. If, as in my case, you are responsible for the vital infrastructure, then that is a new threat that you must take very seriously. In my introductory talks at the General Court with Mr Visser and Mrs Giskes, I made specific reference to this subject. I said that if I, as a minister, were asked what I find interesting to investigate, that would be this issue. So I'm really glad they did. I think it's very useful, too. And of course I was prepared that it would not all be 100% in order. I have said before, and also in response to the research, that I really see it as a policy support. But I do see the sharpness of the recommendations, that there is real work to be done. I want to work hard to adopt these recommendations as quickly as possible. There is the impression that we might wait with those recommendations, that we would actually postpone everything until we first have that current threat picture. That is, I think, a bit clumsy and cryptic written down in the letter, because that is absolutely not the intention. I would, of course, like to get right to the recommendations. You are quite right as a Chamber, when it comes to matters that should have been in order in 2017 and where that is still not the case, that you say: then the Minister will not wait until a new threat is ready. So we're not gonna do that either. We're just gonna get to work on all the recommendations. I will be happy to return to this later in the reply to each recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u30	We also had one of these sessions with the General Court of Auditors the other day. Then Mr Visser, the President of the Court of Auditors, said that the easiest thing to do is to accept the recommendations. And with that, it's actually off the table. We don't want that. We want them on the table. We want it to be clear what the recommendations are and what we are actually going to do by recommendation. We'd like you to take that back to the Chamber as well. I believe that we have all expressed this wish, because that urgency is indeed felt, not only by you but also by us, because it is important for our country. We shouldn't just say thank you for the report. That certainly shouldn't be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u31	I totally share that feeling. I would have liked to do it later in the answer, but I might as well say it now: I would be happy to report on this annually in Mr Dijkstra's request. I imagine that we will do so for the first time in the run-up to the budget, so that we can take that into account in that annual cycle. That will certainly be a little more extensive than just saying that we are working on it vigorously. Then I'll go into those recommendations. I would like to say a few words about the current threat picture. Mrs Kröger made a very fair point about it when she said that of course that is never finished. Threats are constantly changing at global level. So we're gonna have to start with that and keep testing it all the time. Several MPs also commented on the alignment with the AIVD, the STUD and the fellow ministries. That is what we will continue to do in this context, and we will work together. But the first specific threat that we're going to make right now, I want to use it to see if this is enough. Mr Dijkstra was right to make a point: if a minister says "take over all the recommendations," then it is neatly colored within the lines and then the stocking is finished. No, then I'm actually more ambitious myself and, depending on what comes out of the threat picture, I also want to see if we need to do more, if we really need to do something on top of that. Your question was also: do we have enough in our house now, is there enough budget to implement the recommendations? This is the case for the current recommendations. We can do that, but I would like to look at the threat picture to see whether this is not enough, or perhaps even more is needed. I really want to use it for that, and keep it in the light of whether we're with it. The screening. Of course the vulnerability is, I found that Mr Dijkstra did have a nice for it not only in the hardware and the software, but also in the mindware. If you have the wrong people in the wrong place, you can have everything in hardware and software for each other, but then you're still incredibly vulnerable. So for the human aspect, actually the weakest link in that whole security........................................................................................................................................................ This naturally focuses on raising the awareness of people who do this work so that they do not, sometimes unconsciously, create risky situations. And on the other hand, of course, it is really aimed at people not knowingly making mean things with malicious parties. For a number of years, managers and operators of remotely operated objects at RWS have also been required to attend awareness training. In addition, there are trainings and awareness programs for managers and directors of RWS. Within IenW we are also working on a broad awareness program. I certainly endorse the recommendation of the General Court that it is of course important next door that employees who come into contact with that sensitive system information of our vital objects have been screened at the right level. I also thought it was really a shortcoming, and I was shocked, I say, very openly. It's immediately quickly picked up to work on that, so that's what's going on now, that project has been started to screen all those employees at the right level. Of course, that will take a few months, but I assume that we will all have that in place before the end of the year. So RWS is working hard to bring all SOC employees to that higher screening level. We will have to look again later, depending on the level of threat, and I will let that depend on whether we should continue to do so to other target groups. So I'm going to have a careful look at raising security levels of objects and possibly prescribing a higher screening level for multiple people within the organisation. Another point that has been noted by many of you is the pen tests, the so-called penetration tests and the training programs. Of course, carrying out all kinds of tests is necessary, for several reasons. First of all, of course, simply to see whether the objects are working as they should, whether the planned emergency measures are working and efficient, whether the necessary improvement measures have actually been implemented or actually have the desired effect, etc. For this, Rijkswaterstaat has an extensive test instrumentarium. This varies from very easy to perform tests with hardly impact on ordinary work to very complex and costly tests. One example of this last category, which really goes a little further, is the so-called penetration test. Also when choosing which specific test is used for, Rijkswaterstaat works at risk. A balance shall be made between the risk of insufficient testing and the costs associated with the choice of a specific test and the consequences that those tests may have for the continuity of the object or system being tested. But, of course, this report by the General Court has been a mirror for this. So the trade-off to do that penetration test will be even more prominent. More use is certainly being made of this possibility. In the coalition agreement, 95 million has been made structurally available for cyber security. Some of them are indeed intended for the sectors for which my ministry is responsible. This amounts to EUR 4 million in 2019, EUR 6 million in 2020 and EUR 7 million from 2021. That is the part that we have been given. Mr Dijkstra asked to what extent the government always reinvents the same wheel. Don't you think it's getting wider? Is Rijkswaterstaat doing this alone? What do you do with other partners? Fortunately, there is a lot of cooperation in the field of cybersecurity, led by colleague Grapperhaus. That's within the Empire. But this also happens between the Empire and other parties. Immediately at the start of this period, I asked for broad attention for cyber security. I recall the addendum that has now been added to the Water Management Agreement. Because this is of course extremely important for the waterboards too: not at the level of the vitals, but at their level. It's more about economic damage. I am also very happy that with the addendum cybersecurity to the Water Management Agreement, we now have the full commitment of all waterboards to make this a serious improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u32	I hear the Minister say that there is broad cooperation within the Cabinet to tackle cybersecurity, but it is the responsibility of the Minister of JenV. My question to this Minister is: to what extent does she have frequent contact with Minister Grapperhaus and what is this cabinet-wide approach? How can you best formulate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u33	The cabinet-wide approach itself is the responsibility of Mr Grapperhaus, but of course we have very regular contact in the various councils we have on Tuesdays. That is where we are discussing these issues with all the ministers concerned. The same applies to cybersecurity. So I'm sitting there from the IenW side at the table. When it is more detailed, the dg Rijkswaterstaat also slides in. So we have regular consultations on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u34	I am, of course, particularly concerned with preventing these cascade effects. The other vital sectors are also extremely vulnerable. It is therefore the responsibility of the JenV Minister, but I cannot imagine that this Minister is very closely involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u35	I think Mr von Martels is quite right. We look together at these cascade effects. Indeed, Mr Grapperhaus is coordinating for cyber security and vital infrastructure, but J and V have also carried out a study on cascade effects and what measures are needed to do so. Because of its competitive sensitivity, the results are only shared with the vital providers, as they are called. So, of course, we are taking up this research for our part, but once again, for coordination, I have to refer to Mr Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u36	I just heard the Minister mention a number of amounts per year, which are reserved and already allocated to pen tests, at least, I understood from your answer that those pen tests will be paid out of those additional amounts. But if you do these pen tests more often, of course new things come up and you have to reserve extra money for them. I would nevertheless like a somewhat more planned reply from the Minister on how she is going to make structural improvements in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u37	The amounts I just mentioned were related to the piece my ministry got out of those 95 million that were specifically mentioned for cybersecurity in the government agreement. So that's not the total. These were the amounts available for IenW each year from that amount. But, of course, we have also used resources for cybersecurity within our own budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u38	That's great to hear. My question was how are we going to deal with this planally, within IenW. Because you have now been given extra money and there is of course your own money, but if you want to embed it in the long term, you can take poison that you will have to make structural money available for it in the coming years. Are you planning on doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yeah, of course we're gonna plan on doing that. I just told you what we should do for the recommendations, for example the connections to the Security Operations Center (SOC). That's what we have the resources for now. We are going to do that, but depending on what comes out of the threat picture, we're going to see what else is needed, and then we're going to do it in a planned way. I have just promised Mr Dijkstra that I will report to the Chamber on an annual basis. I propose that I include the financial side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u40	Then I ask the Minister to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u41	I was just on the subject of cooperation. Rijksbreed is a national detection network and for vital objects and chains the National Cyber Security Centre brings together the information. This also ensures that everyone can benefit from the information generated from various other realm parts. Rijkswaterstaat is also one of the initiators of a joint SOC for the Empire, where information and knowledge are shared. This is also reflected in the exchange of staff through secondment. I remember telling you in the debate on the waterboards that people are running from the waterboards on a rotational basis on the SOC so as to create this cross-pollination. For the government, for chain partners as well as for the market, remember that those struggle with the same challenges, of course, there are also the so-called ISACs, the Information Sharing and Analysis Centers. Then it is not only about turning and managing the port areas, but also about airports and so on. There, Rijkswaterstaat also sits at the table to exchange and enrich information, of course in a closed session, because it is sensitive information. In addition, there is also a government-wide executive consultation and a private-public consultation to share maximum information and ideas. Questions have also been asked about crisis management; a very important part of the work of IenW and in particular of Rijkswaterstaat. Crisis scenarios for cybersecurity incidents are a logical part of this. I have often shared with your Chamber that, of course, it is always a triple. You should try to have prevention at the highest possible level in advance, then continuously monitor and monitor what is happening, because even the companies that specialize in cybersecurity never have 100% guarantee that they will not be penetrated. So you have to keep following it all the time. You always have to be prepared. You have to get your contingency planning in order, your disaster scenario in case it happens one time, just because you can never rule that out for the full hundred percent. We certainly need to get these crisis scenarios in order. During the General Court's investigation, a strategic exploration had already started to provide the cyber incident contingency plan with the right scenarios. The Court is simply right that a specific cybersecurity crisis scenario should be included. According to the recommendation, Rijkswaterstaat is already working on an update of these crisis maps and also on the process of ensuring that we keep those crisis scenarios up to date. A crisis always comes at an unexpected moment, of course. The best thing you can do to stand up is practice, practice, practice. Interdepartmentally, my ministry is constantly participating in all kinds of cyber crisis exercises. We are not only doing this interdepartmentally, but we are going to do it within the Ministry and we are going to do it more often. In this context, we have also been asked about foreign companies; I thought it was Mrs Kröger. In doing so, we closely follow the procurement policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Last year, the MCEV looked at a takeover of vital providers. There is also a question now: how do you deal with ICT components? All of this is done under the direction of BZK and we are following closely the agreements that result from this. There are, of course, many discussions about 5G; you were quite right to do so. With vital infrastructure, of course, you don't want to think that things could go wrong. An interdepartmental task force has been set up under the leadership of the NCTV. That task force shall carry out a risk analysis on the vulnerabilities of 5G telecom networks. Your Chamber will be informed of the results of this by my colleague from JenV. Mr von Martels asked a specific question about the tunnels. The tunnels are also mission-critical objects. They have an adequate security approach. For all factors, whether the human factor, physical security, cyber security, functional security, asset management, all these factors combined, the package of measures in the area of prevention, detection, response and enforcement applies. In the framework of the tunnels, too, all these things are brought together. Mrs Kröger asked: can the Minister reassure us that the main devices can also continue to operate autonomously? The vital objects and devices associated with them are so designed that they can also operate standalone. In case of calamities, e.g. power failure or a network that goes down for any reason, the object can still be operated. In many cases it is about mechanical variants and can be turned off by people by hand and that kind of practical thing. Vital objects are also operated locally. It is extremely important for us to continue to ensure this, even towards the future, so that we are never entirely dependent on a digital system. There were concerns about some systems that are very old, a bit of a legacy from the past. Indeed, there are still those from the eighties and nineties. These systems have not yet all been replaced, as this would entail an enormous cost and sometimes jeopardise the continuity of the network. This is also an answer to the question about the regions: why were regions hesitant? This was mainly due to the fact that they were concerned whether the medicine would not be worse than the disease, because the object in question must of course continue to function well in the meantime. Fortunately, we have now been able to overcome these concerns everywhere and all regions have signed up to the current approach. Mr Drost asked how proactive Rijkswaterstaat was warned about new threats by the AIVD, for example. If there are signals or information about possible threats to the services relevant to Rijkswaterstaat, this is fortunately proactively shared. In the case of Rijkswaterstaat, this is almost always done via the AIVD. I think I've answered most of the questions. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u42	Let's take a look. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u43	A large part of the questions have indeed been answered. In any case, I am very happy to hear that the budget is sufficient. Money's not a problem. It's good to hear that for once. My point was the reluctance of the regions. The Minister now says that it has been taken away: they have all signed, so one, two, three, four we are going against it! Then it remains that the center says it has insufficient knowledge and capacity, including capacity. The question is how we are going to solve this and when, because everyone is now in the starting blocks, it is now completely resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u44	That depends, of course, on the recommendation. One will be done a little sooner than the other. We aim to solve everything as much as possible in this year. I do not know whether this will be possible in all areas. Then there is your comment on the regions. I'm glad they're on board now, but sometimes it's also going to depend on whether you can do work with a handy way to do something. It is being worked with man and power, also by the regions, to get it all done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u45	What about the part about the education and the knowledge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u46	That's what we're looking at. The current recommendations can be followed, but it is a challenge anyway because there are also some people who retire from the ILT yesterday. This is also the case with Rijkswaterstaat. Not only the people involved in cybersecurity, but in a broad sense we must continue to pay attention to the very specific knowledge of these people. It is incredibly sought after, much sought after, throughout society, both in the public sector and in the market. So we will also have to ensure that the SOC and broad Rijkswaterstaat remain an attractive employer. To anyone interested in this subject who may now be looking at it, I would like to make an appeal. This is really in the interest of the Netherlands, so if you want your knowledge and your abilities to be of good use to the whole society, this is a wonderful environment to come and work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u47	In conclusion. I understand that the Minister wants to reward good employership, so I assume that the salary is similar and that there will be a wonderful new collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u48	Other colleagues are working very hard on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u49	I had gone into the faalkans of vital waterworks. The faalkans are the chances that a vital water work will fail when we need it. You can imagine that the risk of cyberattacks goes on in such a falcan. I mentioned a specific barrier. I can imagine the Minister saying: I do not deal with specific cases. That's not my question either. But in general, these faalkans and that chance of cyber attacks can then continue to work in the security or protection level of our country. This also indicates the priority that we may need to attach to it. Can the Minister say anything about that? If it is too technical, the answer may also be in writing or in second time, but I would have put it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u50	I hope I can answer him like this. I think Mr Drost is right to highlight a point. Where the faalkans used to focus mainly on the technique, on the hardware, it really can't do that anymore in the present time, because you're definitely so vulnerable, maybe even more vulnerable, on the software side, just because of that cybersecurity. This is therefore explicitly taken into account in the new falcan calculation, because it is necessary, because that vulnerability is indeed present. So the faalkans aren't just based on the hardware. The software is really included in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u51	If there are no further questions from the Chamber, we can move on to the second term of office. Speaking time is one and a half minutes. Any motions must also be tabled. I will only allow questions which clarify the understanding of any motions to be tabled. I call Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the clear answer. That does not alter the fact that I would like to table two more motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a cyber attack on vital water works can also affect other vital sectors, such as residential areas, industrial sites, connections and aviation (the so-called cascade effects);]] [[Calls on the Government to reflect the impact on other vital sectors of a cyber attack on waterworks in 2019 and to make proposals to take appropriate measures to prevent or mitigate such consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u53	The next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the General Court of Auditors makes eight concrete recommendations in the report on "Surveillance: cybersecurity and vital waterworks," endorsed by the Minister;]] [[calls on the Government to review the implementation of the endorsed recommendations by the summer of 2020 and to report the results to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821/76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's explanation that it is not her intention to wait, that we get an annual report and that the budget is sufficient. Because the budget is sufficient and the minister has ambitions, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Court of Auditors' finding that the programme Secured Works Rijkswaterstaat (BWR) has made a catch-up with regard to cybersecurity of vital water works;]] [[Considering that the ambition to detect cyber attacks directly had not yet been achieved by the end of 2018, whereas it was scheduled to be completed by the end of 2017;]] [[Whereas this creates the risk that a cyber attack on a vital water work will not be detected or not be detected in due course;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate in concrete terms what action it is taking to achieve the targets that should have been achieved by the end of 2017 by the end of 2019, if this proves necessary to mobilise the necessary resources, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr President, one more motion because I want more certainty, but perhaps the Minister can explain it. Then I'd be happy to move her back in. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister makes the follow-up to the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors in the Digital Dijkwekering report more or less dependent on a new threat picture to be drawn up;]] [[Notes that measures to optimise cyber security cannot and should not be formulated and implemented on the basis of a threat picture, but on the basis of the optimal security situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u56	Yes, still, Mr. Chairman; I feel at home there. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would also like to thank my colleagues. With the eight serious parties in the I&W committee, we have had a nice debate on the content. The same goes for what preceded it. It is nice that we can combine politics with content. I feel like we share the urgency. There is also a lot of consensus. That's not strange either when you think about what a strange power might do, or if someone installs something in the software or whatever it is that will be activated later or that will penetrate somewhere. That will have major consequences. Then we're in some kind of James Bond scenario, a scary book or a scary movie, and we don't have some kind of James Bond that's gonna save the day in an hour and a half. No, the land would be half underwater. We shouldn't have that. The Minister must therefore protect our country, with all the people who stand for it on a daily basis. She has to keep our country safe, the people, the businesses and the assets. It is also good to hear that it was new to me that the 95 million actually ends up with the 4, 6 and 7 million extra for security. I have also somewhat understood from the answer that the Minister has made a commitment to report annually on people's hardware, software and mindware, as well as on budgets. If you encounter any other cases, in addition to the recommendations we already have, you will also report them, I understand. That's good. So I don't have to make a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. In my view, this minister does not need any motions to be urged to work hard on this. In the answer I noticed that that is own passion and own drive. However, a brief conclusion to this debate. We are proud of waterworks as Dutch people. We like them. But in general, we don't talk about it much until the moment they do something different than you'd want them to do. I believe that this was also the subject of the debate, and we should have all hands on deck to prevent it. That's what we showed you this afternoon. I have one other point: I cannot help it, Mr President. If those waterworks don't do what you want, because they're not well maintained, that's of course an explicit point. I therefore believe that this debate is also a good start to next week. Then we can work together on enough money to make them just do what we want them to do. But first we're gonna think about it for an Ascension weekend, so thank you so much. Here's my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mr Schonis, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I welcome the Minister's commitment that she will report annually on the progress of the cybersecurity measures and that structural money or at least investment space will be requested for them. Pen testing is, after all, an essential part of a coherent approach to cybersecurity. That's why I've prepared a motion. Like Mrs Van Brenk, I hope that the minister will embrace it on the spot, but we're going to see it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Court's investigation into cybersecurity of vital waterworks shows that doing so-called penetration tests (pentests) in some waterworks may be risky;]] [[Whereas pen testing in all water works should be an integral part of a comprehensive system of cybersecurity;]] [[calls on the government to make a full pen test on the industrial automation systems of the vital waterworks an integral part of cybersecurity measures in all vital waterworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u62	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. Then we get Mrs Kröger from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. No motions on my part, but two more questions. The first was about how the minister wants to deal with all these outdated automation systems and how that relates to cybersecurity. Let me ask you another question. The Minister sees a very united Chamber here. In my view, we do not often have debates where we so unanimously endorse a problem, as with this serious report by the Court of Auditors on the worrying situation. My question to the Minister is whether, in the second term, she can take us on board in response to the Court's report and recommendations. Suppose the Minister did the reports for three years and there was also a little money available, where are we in three years' time? What have we achieved and what would the Court of Auditors' report conclude in three years' time? I would very much like to see this view of the Minister in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Then Mr Drost of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I'll come back to the point of faalkans against cybersecurity. The cybersecurity we advocate in this country must be such a good thing that the faalkans of our vital water works do not diminish. I must say that the level of protection of our country is not increasing. That is probably not quite the case at the moment, otherwise we would not be debating this issue today. If that is the case, then of course I would like to hear it from the Minister in the second term. I do not have a motion on this because we are confident that the Minister is doing well with the recommendations she is taking on at the moment, and also with the things she has already done; she is taking it forward. We therefore look forward to the next report in this area. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you, Mr. Drost. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Let me take a look at the Minister to see if she has the opportunity to respond immediately. That's not the case, so we'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u67	We're going to listen to the response and assessment of the motions. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their very positive contribution to the debate. It gives us the feeling that we are united in this. Before I go into the motions, I would like to touch on the two questions put by Mrs Kröger. First of all, she came back to the legacy and the old systems that are still there. She asked me how I deal with replacing it. As long as we have a slight feeling that they're vulnerable, we're going to replace them. If that's not necessary because it's standalone and there's a backup, we're not doing it yet. This is looked at on a case-by-case basis. It's being handled wisely. Apparently, Mrs Kröger has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u69	If you as a company or whatever have an automation system from the eighties, isn't that something vulnerable anyway? You have to replace that in the long run, don't you? Those are costs that we just need to have plans for, not just cyber security, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u70	Of course, it is. That's what they're looking at. The system shall be closely monitored for its satisfactory functioning. Of course, you always need a backup. If you have a good backup, you don't always have to replace it à la minute, depending on the type of system. This is seriously assessed on a case-by-case basis. Of course this also goes along with the whole story about management and maintenance. Mr Stoffer preached: we are going to talk about this next week. Of course, management and maintenance is not only about hardware, but also about software, operating systems and so on. Mr Stoffer is absolutely right to ensure, without cyber threats, that the system always does what it has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u71	Sure. So it is not replaced à la minute, but the Minister acknowledges that these highly outdated systems need to be replaced. And there's also a plan about how, what and when that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u72	That is part of the whole of management and maintenance. At some point you'll get to the block of replacement and renovation. No system will last forever, of course, and certainly not software. Mrs Kröger has asked another question. I have to say that's a very difficult question. What do I see for me in three years? It's always very complicated to estimate what the world looks like. In any case, I think it is important to be able to establish within three years, hopefully, that the actions we have agreed with the water boards in the Water Management Agreement have also been implemented. We'll have a better view of the entire watercycle. I hope to have achieved that in three years' time. Of course, I hope that in three years' time we will have followed the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. I also hope that by then we will have "security by design" embedded throughout our organization and that this will be part of the balance from the beginning. I hope that we will have a good level of awareness not only at RWS, but also at the Ministry and that everyone will be aware of this. You yourself indicated that the threat can change in nature and in size. That is why I hope that we have made our system adaptive so that we can always respond to these changing circumstances. Of course, my ultimate image is that, if it is good for each other somewhere in the world with the cybersecurity of the vital works, this is in the Netherlands. That is why I would, of course, like to continue to learn, not only from what other departments or other Dutch bodies do, but also from an organisation like ENISA, for example, which charts this Europe-wide. The world is changing in terms of cybersecurity so quickly that you cannot keep up with this as a country on your own. You need international cooperation to stay as alert as possible. Because, unfortunately, the bad guys tend to always run a little faster, so we all have to stay on top of that. That is the image I hope to have achieved in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u73	Yes, that is an attractive image, an important image and an image that I think the Chamber also wants to achieve. Maybe my question, which is obviously underneath it, is: if you describe where you should be in three years' time, how do you translate it into concrete goals and indicators, which will also allow you to get there efficiently, efficiently and efficiently? So how are the recommendations of the report translated to where you want to be in three years' time? When can we expect that battle as a room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u74	We need to work very hard to follow all the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. I shall come back to that in a moment; we are going to use full force to do so. But I imagine that we will also return to the higher ambitions that we have after that, including in those reports that I have just promised. It shouldn't just be a tick-off list, like: gosh, what about recommendation X or Y? We must also write down our own objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u76	Finally. In doing so, these objectives should be formulated as concretely as possible as truly attainable objectives. Because I believe that in other reports from the Court of Auditors, the criticism of the policy that we are not ensuring enough in concrete, measurable targets, for example, in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u77	I understand Mrs Kröger's point very well. There too, of course, is the complexity. Safety is also not easy to display in percent. Look, something you can count on is whether all the works are connected to SOC. There's just some really hard work you can record in that. We will see what we can grasp in these types of numbers, and what we may need to describe a little more qualitatively. But I understand the wish and we're going to see what we can do about it. Because it is also important for us to be able to see if we have sufficient control over everything. Mr. Chairman. I'll get on the motions. The first is from Mr von Martels' hand. It invites the government to reflect the impact on other vital sectors of a cyber attack on waterworks in 2019 and to make proposals to take appropriate measures to prevent or mitigate those impacts. In the first term, I indicated to you that the whole of the cascade effects is covered by Mr Grapperhaus' portfolio. But if you mean that from the waterworks we will report to the ministry of JenV what would happen, then of course I am willing to do so. But when it comes to what exactly that has for effects in those other sectors, for example telecommunications, then, of course, colleagues at EZK are much more appropriate to visualize these effects. This also applies when it comes to economic effects. So in any case, there is certainly the willingness to indicate what consequences there may be. What exactly is the impact on these sectors must, of course, map out those sectors themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr. von Martels, can you agree with the explanation given by the Minister to your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u79	Yes, it is. I hope, of course, that the Minister will take it as widely as possible, but I agree with the words that she will at least make it clear to her own ministry what the consequences are. So in that respect, the motion is also meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u80	If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Because, of course, I cannot go beyond what we can map from our ministry, from Rijkswaterstaat. But I will be happy to provide that information to Mr Grapperhaus. I'm going to move on part number one. 76. Mr Von Martels also asked the government to review the implementation of the endorsed recommendations for the summer of 2020 and to report the results to the Chamber. I can leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber, because it seems to me to be a very real wish of the Chamber that I shall do so. I come to Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 78. He sees that we need to realize what was planned for the end of 2017. Unfortunately, I cannot say that everything will be carried out before the end of this year. As far as connecting vital objects to SOC is concerned, I can assure you that we will have it ready for the start of the new storm season. So we've got that done before October 1st. Many of the other measures will be ready this year. I can make a promise that I will send you a plan on how to deal with the other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u81	As far as I am concerned, the Minister can interpret it as she says. I think that the most important thing is to ensure the connection to SOC. So that's timely. I think that's a big plus. Then when we get that planning, I think she's gonna meet my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u82	Well, then, if you take out the 2019 piece, I'll say that we're trying to make it all clear as soon as possible. Then I come to the motion on part No. 77, including Mrs Van Brenk. It states that the Court states that measures for optimal cyber security cannot and should not be formulated and implemented on the basis of a threat picture but on the basis of an optimal security situation. Mrs Van Brenk already felt it coming, because she said: I hope the Minister will embrace the motion. I can do that, too. I can take over this motion. I did want to reassure you: we are not going to sit on our hands until we have a threat picture; we are just going to get to work in full. I don't know if Mrs. Van Brenn is willing to take her over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u83	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mrs. Van Brenk, would you mind... Oh, yeah, you'll take it from here. And the verdict is, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u85	Well, once the motion is taken over, she's off this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u86	Oh, yeah, okay, sorry. Then I have to see if there is any objection to this being dealt with in this way. Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u87	No, I do not object to taking over this motion, but my comment concerns the previous motion. I have heard the Minister say: if you take out that date, the judgment becomes Chamber. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yeah, so the motion can get judgment room. About that year 2019 I indicated that I really can't make it happen to do all that before the end of this year. But we can make it clear to the Chamber what the planning looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u89	And Mrs. Van Brenk is going to amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u91	But then the Minister's opinion is actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u92	Then I can give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u93	So the Minister is going to advise against the motion unless it's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u94	That's also correct, yes. Then the motion to part No. 79, by Mr Schonis' hand. This motion calls on the government to ensure that full pen testing on the industrial automation systems of the vital waterworks is an integral part of cybersecurity measures in all vital waterworks. I also have a 'yes, but' question in the direction of Mr Schonis. Is my interpretation correct that you mean that it should always be part of the consideration, but that you also do not propose that a pen test should always be carried out on each part? Because if you say we have to do it all the time and everywhere, even with the less important things, then we can't. But if you say that it should always be part of the consideration on the vital parts, then I could give the motion judgment Chamber. But I am looking at Mr Schonis now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u95	That's right. That is indeed the intention. It's about the vital waterworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u96	Yeah, okay, then we have the same opinion. Then it is always an integral part of the consideration whether the pen test is applied. Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u97	And then the verdict is: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u98	With that coloring, the verdict is "Room." Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u99	Yeah, I guess so. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-9.u100	We're gonna suspend until 5:15. Then there will be votes on the amendment of the Fertilisers Act. And the motions that have just been tabled in this debate will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for the explanation.
