ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u1	We will continue the debate on the Navy's note in one smooth motion. Well, we're here. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the Group of the Party for Freedom, as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the Navy Note, the latest state of affairs this year. 2019 was a good year for this minister. The economy grew by 1.8% and never before there were so many people at work. To understand the work of this minister, because of every euro we earn, we can give almost €0.50 to this minister. But it's not enough yet. Now the Minister not only wants us to work longer, far beyond our 67th year, but also to work more, so that he and the treasury can take considerable advantage of it. But if he wants us to work more, what's he going to do about the marginal tax burden on average income? Because you'd only make $32,000 and earn $100 more because you're going to work more. Then you can turn that amount all the way over to this minister, plus a little more. The incentive to work more and therefore earn a little more is therefore completely zero point zero. Mr. Chairman. This year it is still pretty good for the wind, but the future looks a bit more bleak. We don't have to expect so much more of it, we read everywhere. Growth is down to about 1% and there is no room for improvement in purchasing power. We're even heading for a shelf life deficit of 16 billion in 2025, we read today. We've been promised a purchasing power plus for years, but we haven't seen any of that yet. And now it's obviously too late. So we've been fooled by this minister. Where the hell is that? I'm asking him. I thought everyone was gonna notice. It is a gross disgrace: first, 50 billion are being cut in the face of the storm, which, of course, was irresponsible and stupid. After that, this minister has been earning a surplus of more than 11 billion per year in hard-working Netherlands for three years in a row. That is more than 33 billion in overpaid taxes paid by people who have previously had to pay the crisis with heavy sacrifices. Every year, in order to ease the situation, it is promised that citizens will feel in the wallet that things are improving economically, but nothing is less true: the Dutch feel nothing. What they do feel is that the collective burden pressure is well above 39%. That is the highest score in 25 years, with a cabinet under the inspiring leadership of the VVD. Who could have thought that? Mr. Chairman. Instead of giving back some of those 33 billion in overpaid taxes, this minister is going to spend more money himself in the Navy's note, this time 1.3 billion. The question is how this minister intends to spend 1.3 billion before Christmas. How is that spent? I read, for example, that just as quickly 300 million is being thrown over the fence to the schools, but who tells me that the money ends up with the teachers? That's what it was meant for. How's the secretary gonna monitor this? Moreover, it is occasional money for a structural problem, the shortage of teachers and the under-wages, so what does this solve? Mr. Chairman. It's turbulent times. The previous Rutte cabinet has cut everything down and is now trying to fix it with empty promises and a few patches. Five years ago, the construction workers with bushes flew into unemployment at the same time. One after the other construction worker was fired. 230,000 construction workers lost their jobs. But now there's a chronic deficiency. We saw the same thing in the care, in the teachers and in the police. This was just a mess. Not a week goes by or the Malieveld is full. We saw it today: the farmers who are threatened by their existence, but also the builders who are no longer allowed to build. The care workers also cease, because they have to work their asses off for a grab. Retailers are drowning in the rules. The teachers, the police, everyone stops. It's a mess. This cabinet fails massively and undermines the public cause. Trust's gone. People are sick of it. One is tired of Rutte's promises and his lovely talk. They are all done with this cabinet, which promises everything, but does not comply with anything. People don't buy it anymore. The credibility has evaporated. The feeling of "seeing first, then believing" prevails. This cabinet therefore has insufficient regard for the ordinary man and the ordinary woman, for the problems of everyday life, such as the bills can no longer be paid. The care, the energy bill, the groceries, but also the insurance, the petrol and the train ticket: everything became hugely more expensive, for many too expensive. The rents have increased by almost 30% in the last ten years. The elderly had to give up to 10% in purchasing power. This year prices rose even more than wages. In short, we are getting poorer in the Netherlands, despite the economic prosperity. DNB charged us that we have stopped buying power since the turn of the century. Everything is growing, profits, public spending and prices, but not purchasing power. The Dutch are kept short and squeezed. That's gotta stop. It is not for nothing that one in three families has to do with late payments, even at this time of economic prosperity. If it had been up to the PVV, we would have used that surplus of nearly 12 billion to finally ease the burden on the citizens of this country. After all, it's their money, not this minister's. With this money you could have reversed the VAT increase, you could have reduced the rents and you could have eliminated your own risk, and you would still have a surplus of over 3 billion. But no, this minister would rather not make promises to the electorate. He'd rather settle the government debt. But why the sovereign debt needs to be repaid, virtually everyone escapes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you. Then Mrs Aukje de Vries from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In recent years, millions of Dutch people have worked hard to get our country out of the crisis and make it better, and we have succeeded. Our country is doing well. We are also in good shape financially. There is a budget surplus and public debt is now below 50%. Our household booklet is in order, especially in comparison with other European countries. But there are also some dark clouds on the horizon, and we don't want that. So that's what we have to prevent. We will have to work for more economic growth to tackle that. The growth letter from Minister Wiebes, which was presented last week, is helping to do this. It's a plan so we can grow in the future. This is essential if we are to maintain our prosperity and our facilities and to increase purchasing power. As a VVD we first of all opt for the middle incomes. The VVD will, as in recent times, be committed to reducing the burden on those middle incomes. But fair is fair, the government can't do that alone. Mr. Chairman. In the General Financial Reviews, I mentioned the assassins of purchasing power, first of all the cost of care. Can the Minister indicate how the contributions of the health insurance companies which have been presented relate to the estimates? What are the consequences of applying the budgetary rule to care premiums? Again we see reports about a higher energy bill, this time due to higher network costs. With the reduction of the energy tax in the Millions note of about €100 per household on average, we wanted to keep that energy bill affordable. The stakes were limited to a limited increase from 2020. How is development monitored and how is it dealt with in the direction of a next Millions note? Mr. Chairman. We have also recently seen that other governments are choosing to increase the burden. It's about the property tax, the rents and the waterboard charges. How has this been taken into account in the inflation figures in purchasing power? Has this happened enough? What consultations does the Minister have with the various umbrella organisations on this matter? There was also a macro norm for the ozb, wasn't there? Will this also be dealt with in the discussions that the government has with the VNG on municipal finances? Mr. Chairman. It seems that we are now putting new policies and new money into the budget cycle at any time: in the spring note, in the millions note, in the autumn note. What exactly is the Minister's line in that? How are we going to spend funds that will not be made available until the end of December 2019 responsibly in 2019? My colleague from the PVV said it, too. Isn't it more convenient and sensible to make that money available directly by 2020, for example when it comes to education, but also undermining it? Mr. Chairman. However, the VVD welcomes additional money for security, such as the undermining crime, the purchase of power surge weapons and additional resources for personal security, the AIVD and the STUDY. These are things the VVD has been working for in recent times. Undermining crime, however, has not been solved by twice an amount of EUR 55 million. The VVD therefore wants these resources to be made structural. The VVD also wants to create a collection fund of criminally obtained funds. There's been a motion to investigate before. The actual questions show that the revenue realised by taking away criminal assets in 2017 and 2018 is significantly lower, but 225 million and 174 million, compared to 2016 when it was 416 million. How is that possible? How will the cabinet make an estimate of 384 million in the coming years? Can funds raised at the top of the estimated revenue not be used for a start with that packing fund? Can we set such a general rule? Mr. Chairman. Defence and infrastructure are also important priorities for the VVD. In recent years additional money has been made available for this purpose. How is this minister going to ensure that we move towards the NATO 2% defence standard? How is this minister going to finance the investment in infrastructure necessary for our country's earning capacity in the coming years? When can we expect the proposals for the investment fund? Mr. Chairman. It has surprised the VVD to read that the money for the AIVD and the STUDY is being used for internal policies, work processes and technical systems to ensure in practice that the requirements of the Wiv 2017 are met. That will also be necessary, and I understand that the Minister cannot go into the details of how these funds are spent in public, but this was not really the purpose for which the funds were made available. This is just regular work. The extra money was meant for extra operational bets. Can the Minister promise that it will be used for this purpose, and only for that purpose? How can you spend those funds in 2019? The actual questions indicate that it is not likely that the expenditure will be fully realised. Will these funds go to 2020? Mr. Chairman. The VVD thinks it is important that extra money is well spent on what it is meant for and that we actually achieve what we want. Can the Minister guarantee, for example, that the use of the additional resources for nature recovery and improvement from the budget reserve will primarily be used to solve the problem of nitrogen rather than for something else? Is there any insight into what is needed in total financial terms to solve the nitrogen problems? Otherwise, the Netherlands will stand still and shove those dark clouds on the horizon in front of the sun. Mr. Chairman. We must at all times realise that all the money we make available for spending is made available by hardworking Dutch people, residents and entrepreneurs. Therefore, Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act on Efficiency and Effectiveness is important. For example, this Autumn note provides additional money for solving the shortage of teachers and reducing the workload. My colleague from the PVV also mentioned this: how can we, the House of Representatives, follow that this money actually achieves results? How does the Minister of Finance work on this? Mr. Chairman. The Ministry's estimates are also discussed each time. Sometimes it seems too generously estimated. The VVD would ensure that the estimates of the Ministries of Social Affairs and Health, Welfare and Sport are properly vetted, for example by the Audit Service Rijk. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Again, my colleague from the PVV already talked about this: on Tuesday we received the CPB ageing study Worrying tomorrow. It also looks at the sustainability of public finances. The VVD has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the rising costs of care, social security and the AOW. What action has been taken to identify medium- and long-term solutions? When can the House of Representatives receive them? Finally, Mr President. Budget law is one of the most important rights of the House of Representatives. The Minister has decided to increase the equity of Energy Management Netherlands by 450 million euros by not paying any profit. The VVD finds it illogical that the House of Representatives has not been informed of this separately before. In formal terms, this may not be necessary under the Compatibility Act, but the VVD would like to see this different for the future, because this involves really substantial amounts. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr President, concluding. It is good that the cabinet is making additional resources available for a number of urgent problems. That is necessary, but as my contribution shows, there is still a lot of work to be done. So I'd say get to work to make the Netherlands even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u5	Thank you. One more question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u6	The VVD talks several times about "I've tried to count it, but I haven't quite succeeded in "extra resources for this," "extra resources for this," "extra resources for this." If you look at it on a subject-by-issue basis, that's true, of course. But does the VVD agree with me that all these extra resources come from under-exhausted social security and care? So money that should have gone to health care, social security, is now being spent on something else. This does not mean, for society at all, that the cabinet is spending extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u7	I have just made a statement on these estimates. We have been critical of this as a VVD before, as have a number of other parties in the Lower House. We need to look closely and critically at that. Above all, it should not be overestimated, but the money that is now available for education but also for safety is very useful. Urgent matters that we really need are provided with a number of additional budgets. And then I haven't even appointed the nitrogen budget reserve yet. I think it is very necessary to invest money in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u8	That it's useful, I agree. I am going to say a few things about this in my own contribution. There are indeed many needs in society that require extra money. However, the VVD suggests that additional money is being spent both in the Spring Note and at the moment. I think the VVD spokesperson literally said that. She speaks to the cabinet, but that is not right at all. There's no extra spending. There's only money spent on something else, money that should've gone to health care. I'd like to refute that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u9	If Mr Alkaya had taken a good look, he would have seen that, for example, the EUR 3 billion reduction agreed on in the Millions Note was a great wish of the VVD, because we think it is important that the middle income should also be spent more, not out of exhaustion, not out of money that is left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u10	I would like to support Mr Alkaya. Over the entire cabinet period, 22 billion is spent less than promised by the government agreement. On balance, therefore, there is less spending. The effects on municipal budgets are immense. You have probably also heard all those aldermen saying: we need to cut back at once, because there is less spending than planned. How does Mrs De Vries view the effect on the municipalities and municipal facilities? Shouldn't that be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u11	I think it is important that some of the under-exhaustment that is there, the unspent money in infrastructure and defence, among other things, will be used again in later years. I think that's what it takes. I believe that today we have received another letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs following the Segers and Others motion, which includes the name of my group chairman, requesting that we see how we can achieve greater stability in municipal finances. There is still a choice to be made. But I agree that we should have more stability, especially during the year. Now you can see that changes are still taking place during the current financial year. And I think that's very complicated for the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u12	I agree with Mrs De Vries that this is very complicated. I read that letter, too. I actually expected it to be resolved before this year, but that letter actually says they're getting into each other's heads and fighting. The municipalities want compensation and the cabinet is not prepared to give it. I ask Mrs De Vries whether she is prepared to meet local authorities so that they do not have to make unnecessary cuts at once because the cabinet does not get all the investments it wants to make in infrastructure, in defence and in other areas, this year and next year, as it had planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u13	In my opinion, the cabinet has already decided that extra budgets will be available for youth care, for example, even for this year, but also for next year and the following year. There will also be an investigation into what is still needed there. In addition, it is good that the cabinet has started discussions with local authorities to see how this stability can be achieved more effectively. There are still a number of variants that are not yet fully understood, but I hope that they will come out in good consultation and that we will at least have some more stability during the year in the municipal finances. I also see that there is a problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u14	Clear, thank you very much. Then we will listen to Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. The autumn note is the end of a financial year. Then we'll actually look back at the past year one more time and we'll draw up the bill, especially in the political sense. It is a moment of closure in the system of the budget. It should not be a moment of decision-making. This is primarily the Millions Note and, secondly, the Spring Note. Last year, as a result of the Urgenda ruling, a budget reserve of half a billion was included in the Autumn note. That happens again this year. We see half a billion dollars for nitrogen, a substantial additional amount for education, extra money for social attorneys and extra money for undermining. It seems that the autumn note has also become a moment of new decision-making. If you were a very strict Minister of Finance, you could look at it a little critically from that system of budgetary rules. After all, the budgetary rules say: if there are windfalls in old policy, you cannot just use it for new policy. What does it really mean, because this is all occasional money if we are going to make that policy structural, for example for undermining? The cabinet itself has said: in the spring paper, we are going to see if we can make that structural. But what does that mean from the point of view of budgetary policy? Do we need to make savings elsewhere at that point in time in order to make these intensifications possible? Or will the Minister at that time also increase the expenditure framework in a structural way, in order to finance this important undermining expenditure? Despite this somewhat strict look at the budgetary rules, I can understand why all this expenditure is being incurred. It is all expenditure that the Chamber itself is demanding, but which society is also asking for. But then there is perhaps a rather fundamental question about how we work as politicians. These are not all issues that suddenly arise. It's about climate, it's about nitrogen, it's about undermining, it's about social law, it's about education, it's about teacher shortage. In fact, these are all structural problems, which we have known for quite a long time that additional policies and additional money are needed. And what does it say that, almost in the time of injury of the financial year, we still have to make major decisions on additional money to tackle structural social problems? Does the Minister agree with me that we should take a critical look at ourselves and that it is perhaps also a kind of powerlessness of politics to deal with very important major problems in good time? In fact, this type of additional expenditure should be included in the Millions' Note, in the budget. Mr. Chairman. That is why we are now in the weird situation from the point of view of budgetary policy that we should actually be talking about 2019, but are already working on 2020 and beyond. This applies, for example, to the Urgenda pronunciation. This week we were told that the gap between now and what we have to do to realize that Urgenda pronunciation is even bigger than we thought. What does that ultimately mean for budgetary policy in the coming year? There will need to be additional measures and additional policies. Can this be included in budgetary policy? Or do we really have to do it with the money that was already reserved for it? The same applies to the problem of nitrogen. It is good that money is reserved in the budget reserve. I have once again looked in the Compatibility Act myself to see whether that budget reserve is in line with the Compatability Act. There's an article about it in the Compatibility Act. That is Article 3.21, I believe. I can't wait to see if it's all in compliance with the Compatibility Act. The question is this. Additional policies must be pursued, even in the coming year. How will this ultimately be integrated into budgetary policy? The same is true of the shortage of teachers, undermining and social lawyering. Mr. Chairman. In my view, it all says something about the fact that we seem to be unable to resolve very large social issues in good time and in good time. We do that with the Navy's note, and that is quite remarkable. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few questions about the technique. The Minister expects another 0.5 billion under-utilisation in the last month of this year in order to meet the deadline. On what budgets does he expect? Where's the 0.5 billion? I have asked for more attention to be paid to the intransparency in relation to the in=terminal. We don't actually get tables or summaries of that. We never get any idea how to fill that out. I think that, as a Chamber, we should actually get that. I'd like a response. The second point concerns the Municipal Fund. Mr Nijboer has just spoken about this in an interrupting debate. We have received a letter on this subject, which states that there are different variants to solve the fluctuations in coincidences and setbacks. But in the end it is not clear to me how the cabinet is going to do this now, together with the local government. What's the next trial? When will that be clear? And when will we know if even municipalities are satisfied with this and are able to get away with it? Mr President, finally, the Compatibility Act. Mrs De Vries has already spoken about it. Questions have already been asked about this in the written set of questions. In the Autumn note there is a lot of extra money for new policies. And on written questions, the Minister says with regard to Article 3.1: the Chamber can read that back to the relevant budget letters of the directors concerned. And then the Chamber itself has to say if she is satisfied with that. That's right. It is important that all our colleagues in all the other committees ask their directors how all this extra money, all this extra policy, is justified under Article 3.1. But it is money that the Minister of Finance has first approved. So does he himself think that all those letters that those rulers have written comply with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u16	Thank you. Then Mr Slootweg of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Autumn note is intended to update the current year's budget. I'm comparing it to a family's wallet. It's when we see if we can still pay our bills or if there's money left. And to go through the parallel: if there is money left, what are we going to do with it? There are actually three flavors: we are going to pay off debts, we are going to invest extra, or we are going to reduce the burden on people. Actually, the agreement was made that in the fall we always put extra money into paying off our debts. However, there are builders who cannot build, farmers who are affected by the problem of nitrogen, teachers who find too little evidence that the extra money previously obtained actually leads to less work pressure, and increasingly brutal organised crime, which is trying to disrupt our legal system. These are urgent social problems that are now calling for action and not just for the next round of budgets. Mr. Chairman. To solve urgent social problems, the under-exhaustment and the windfalls are used. We read that it is too early to know whether it is about occasional or structural windfalls. The care is concerned with windfalls in medical-specialist care, but also in the district care and in the ggz. With regard to medical-specialist care, we can imagine that these are structural windfalls, for example, because prevention measures are more effective than expected and the specialist should be called upon less. In the case of community care, we can only explain it through labour market constraints. The windfall in the neighbourhood care may explain the need for additional resources for nursing care, because the shortage of neighbourhood nurses makes it faster necessary for people to go to a nursing home. Isn't that another replacement for cheaper care by more expensive care? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This question about structural and occasional windfalls has a different background. It has to do with the high burden that middle incomes experience. The cabinet has taken a number of measures in the Millions Note to reduce this burden. However, more and more it becomes clear that within the agreements we have made there are also sneaking burdens. I am referring, for example, to increases in charges which previous Cabinets have already agreed, but which are starting to feel heavier and heavier. There is no insight into how many sneaky burdens are in the 2030 timetable. Think of the increases via the SDE+ or the rocktaks. Is the Minister prepared to make an overview for the spring in which all structural burden developments, including those after this cabinet period, can be identified? Mr. Chairman. Consultation on the autumn note is normally not the time to look at structural policy adjustments. However, the debate on the Millions Note clearly stated that more money was needed to tackle the undermining of organised crime. If we read the passage "the cabinet occasionally invests 110 million in a broad offensive against organised crime," we will have some questions. Is that really a directional amount that we hear more about in the Spring paper or is that structural? Or is that amount the impetus that can be given now, but which is not a guiding factor for the moment when it is to be implemented in a structural manner? Mr. Chairman. It is wise that the cabinet also invests in the internal organisation of our intelligence services. The CTIVD has repeatedly pointed out that both services do not yet comply with the safeguards required by the new legislation. However, the CDA is also critical of the ever increasing burden of accountability for the services. The services were not set up as an office of administration, but as an intelligence service, for our safety. The cabinet has previously stated that the new Wiv 2017 would not have a disproportionate impact on the internal organisation of the intelligence service. However, we now need 5 million per ministry to deal with the law. The Cabinet has also undertaken to assess whether the services are still adequately assigned to their intelligence and security tasks. In fact, the cabinet is now saying: no, they are not getting enough, because there has to be money. The CDA has long been concerned about the digital infrastructure at the Military Intelligence and Security Service. Minister Bijleveld has announced a roadmap to put things in order. We expect the bulk of EUR 5 million to be used for this purpose. Can the Minister confirm that? The administrative burden for the intelligence service has increased by EUR 10 million per year. Careful and legitimate action may cost some. But will the cabinet remain critical of the law? If we train our intelligence services with legislation on legislation, we'll pay for it with our security. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is harsh to note that due to delays in the Tax Administration in 2019, the recovery action on the Child-Based Budget Act is not being achieved. Yes, I also see that this money does not disappear but is being pushed forward, but this is of course money that is very welcome to families for which the child-related budget is really not a luxury. How can we help the families in which the delay in the recovery action hurts? Can we not strengthen the strength of society? The food banks offer a lot of support to poor families. The CDA finds it striking that in a few years fewer and fewer children are being helped: that number fell from 34.000 in 2015 to 29.000 in 2017. This is really striking when the CBS notes that despite economic growth, the group that lives around the poverty line is not falling. In Europe there is a fund that contributes to food support for the most deprived. How does the Netherlands use the funds requested by the European Union through the FAED, the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived? And is it true that the Netherlands does not apply for food support money? Mr. Chairman. The increase in the care premium is also one that people feel in the wallet. Now it appears that for this year there is a downfall of 600 million on the Health Insurance Act. This must mean that people have paid too high a premium. It is now the case that the premium for the Long-Term Care Act has been set too low, as 200 million is added. Where would the contributions to the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act have come from when correctly estimated in advance? And what income groups would have noticed that? Mr. Chairman. I would like to add a few striking points to the tax receipts. In indirect taxes, three major setbacks can be noted in relation to the Millions Note. I am intrigued by the tax on the environmental base. How are we supposed to describe it? Is it because people make different choices and buy goods that are less harmful to the environment? That is beautiful in itself, but how robust is this revenue source for the Empire? Then a nice windfall at the heir and gift tax. Only it makes me feel a little wobbly. Last year this item missed 237 million. Causes: delays and a failing ICT project. And now there's 50 million more than expected. Does this mean that the backlogs have been slowly eliminated? And is it true that the ADR has started an investigation into how things can be improved here? Mr. Chairman. During the Financial Reviews, the Cabinet indicated that there was talk of a more stable Municipal Fund. At that time, I indicated that reducing the burden on the middle groups is fantastic, but that the same people do not understand much of it when the burden is increased through the municipalities, either through the ICI or through the waste tax. In some municipalities it is about increases from 12% to 13.5%. The cabinet indicated that there was talk about an adjustment of "stairs up, down stairs" and that there is even a visitation committee that assists municipalities to gain more control over expenditure. Meanwhile, a letter has come in with four models on how to regulate financial relations with the municipalities. Is it true that the system of this letter will not enter into force until after this period of office? What are the discussions with municipalities about the problems they experience in the short term? Is it true that the Empire does not charge a disappointing 90 million-dollar accres for municipalities? And does each of these models ensure that multi-annual securities are provided to local authorities, that large peaks and declines are avoided and that stability and predictability are increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u18	I see Mr Nijboer, but can you finish your text first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u19	That's possible. I have another paragraph. If Mr Nijboer will allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u20	Well, that's what the chairman's talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u21	Yes, Mr President, that is what you are talking about. Mr. Chairman. Finally, negative interest rates. It's still bizarre. This discourages saving. In reply to questions put by Mr Ronnes and myself, the Minister indicated that he drew from the public comments made by the bank directors that they do not intend to engage in a negative interest rate for ordinary savers in the foreseeable future. There are no examples of countries that have prohibited by law that banks attract funds at negative savings rates. In addition, DNB indicates that the prohibition has more disadvantages and risks than benefits and is not proportionate. And then it's, uh, we're gonna keep the finger on the wrist. It is not a question of my group simply putting legal restrictions on it. We also see that interest rates have been falling since the 1980s, but we would like to see a more active attitude from this cabinet. Has the international research yielded anything on how to better protect savings, which we do not yet apply in the Netherlands, for example? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u22	I'll come back to the congregations. There are a lot of CDA aldermen. I believe that Mr Slootweg's party delivers even the majority of the country's mayors. I heard from Mr Slootweg something about municipalities with problems that facilities such as libraries, museums and youth care cannot keep up. Mr Slootweg is asking questions about this. Doesn't he agree that the cabinet should come up with a solution? The cabinet cannot leave the municipalities in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u23	That is why I am very curious to read the letter that was sent today. There are four models in there. I would actually hope that when we leave tonight, I get a little feeling for what the Cabinet feels about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u24	I agree with Mr Slootweg. We can of course study until we have a way, but next year there will be cuts in municipalities. Does he want to try to turn that away with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u25	In my view, it is a little too easy to say that we are only making cuts. In that sense, I think the problem is a little deeper. You can also see that the burdens are increased. That's what I said in my contribution. I would very much like to see the Spring Paper really looked at what solutions we can find in these four models. I also read about the 90 million somewhere. My question is, how am I supposed to describe it? I am therefore curious whether, after last spring, when extra money was provided for youth services, the cabinet has found other ways to see how it can accommodate municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u26	I waited until the end of Mr Slootweg's story. Actually, I was expecting him to say something about DOD, too. Because at the beginning of December, his colleague, Mr Van Helvert, announced on Twitter that he thought it was very important that extra investments should be made in Defence in the year-end note. Why is that missing from Mr Slootweg's story? 'Cause there's a CDA minister at the Treasury. There's a CDA Secretary of Defense. I'm not getting it all that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u27	I see that in this coalition agreement at least more has been achieved for defence than what I believe the VVD had in its electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u28	Yeah, that's good. You can now refer to something else. I am referring to your party colleague's appeal that extra money should be provided for in the Autumn note. I'm curious. I was expecting a proposal from the CDA right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u29	I see that, in every decision-making process, both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Finance are still getting extra money for defence measures. So I think we can already see that the cabinet takes steps every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u30	We'll do the interruptions in half. Thank you to Mr Slootweg for his contribution. Then we are going to listen to Mr Alkaya of the SP Group. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u31	Mr. Chairman. The State has built up a major debt to society over the last ten years. We now see the symptoms almost daily, because there is unrest in the Netherlands, and rightly so. Demonstrations follow on demonstrations, from all kinds of different groups: environmental organisations, young people, farmers, teachers, social lawyers, care workers, tax authorities victims and this afternoon single parents who have too little income to live on. Everyone sees the injustice that has been done to them in the decade after an economic crisis. That crisis wasn't paid for by the people who should have paid for it. That is a decade that may go down in history as the last of neoliberal capitalism. In that decade, I'll just call it a VVD decade, the way many parties looked at the rich budget also seemed to be one-sided for a long time. Shortly down the bend, it came down to the fact that cleaning, cutting down and breaking down were good, responsible and sensible. Almost all parties participated in this in different roles. As a result, public debt to the financial sector has been considerably reduced, but public debt to society has become unsustainablely high. That is why it is a good thing that the Cabinet wants to address a number of urgent social problems in the Navy's paper and to free up money for this, but the money that is available for this should have already been spent on other important issues, namely social security and care, which we have just had in an interrupting debate. The cabinet only uses the failures to invest back in society. This cigar from its own box is just too little. After all, the budget surplus is more than 10 billion. The fact that these billions are now being used to pay off the State's debt to the financial market, and not the debt to society, is irresponsible, unwise and unjust. The State's debt to the financial markets is already low, less than 50% of what we all earn annually. Compare this with what an average family owes: €166,000. That's about four to five times as high as a modal annual income. I am not even talking about the 1.5 million households, which the PVV also mentioned, which are below that average and are now experiencing structural late payments. So the cabinet is doing far too much to pay off the financial debt and too little to pay off its social debt. Why? That's my main question to the cabinet today. I also have a number of questions specifically about what the cabinet does and then about what the cabinet leaves behind in my view. First of all, about what the Cabinet does. It is good to have money for nature, social lawyers, the fight against crime and education, but it is not quite clear which part of these funds can be taken to 2020. It almost is. For example, money is being allocated to social lawyers and the fight against crime, but we do not know which part of it can be spent next year. Can the Minister promise that this whole amount can be spent in 2020 as well? The same applies to all the other one-off expenses. Subsequently, in the case of Defence, structural expenditure, such as the replenishment of stocks and the cost of software, seems to be covered by incidental resources. Is this a disguised way of systematically channeling the budgetary space intended for care and social security to the Defense Department? My group would much rather see well-paid caregivers and teachers instead of submarines, I repeat here. Finally, we see an under-utilization of subsidies intended to make industry more sustainable. I find that significant. The industry therefore lasts far too slowly, even if you keep throwing a lot of tax money at it. At the same time, the cabinet makes far too little money available for the sustainability and improvement of social housing, for which I have drawn attention several times. Which brings me to those things the Cabinet leaves behind. If you have 10 billion budget surplus and there is still so much to improve in society, such as that social housing stock, then it is a symptom of a lack of ambition if the cabinet does not put money or give it back to the people who need it, but to the financial market. For example, the cabinet could give the money back to society by lowering the rents or renovating the social housing, so that people lack less energy. That is possible if you convert the landlord tax, which is still maintained, into a duty for landlords to invest in the homes they rent out. Why would a budget reserve for export credit insurance or for nitrogen measures be possible, but not for affordable and decent rentals? It's possible, but the cabinet chooses to leave this behind. Nor would it be wrong for the cabinet to have put billions of dollars rather than millions of dollars into a reserve fund to compensate the victims of the Tax Administration. Take Tamara. She was told this morning that her case is over and that her file has been closed at the IRS. So now she has to go to trial to get any information about her conviction. This is a scandal that my party continues to follow. The tax authorities are now also under the responsibility of this minister. If the cabinet really does not know a good destination for the 10 billion, then it could give the municipalities more opportunities to help their inhabitants, for example those living in poverty. In short, the SP welcomes the fact that the cabinet is addressing a number of urgent issues, but it is completely inadequate to realise how big these problems are and how big the surplus is. So the direction is okay and perhaps inevitable when you see all the unrest in society, when you see all the justified demonstrations of all these different groups, but the steps are far and far too small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u32	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u33	Why does Mr Alkaya argue so enthusiastically and passionately to remain so dependent on that financial sector as a government? I don't get it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u34	Mr Sneller probably means something, but I do not understand how I have advocated this in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u35	In his speech, Mr Alkaya talks all the time about our debt to the financial sector and, above all, we should not relieve it. If there's a crisis and we have to borrow again, we have to borrow every year. We'll make ourselves more dependent on that financial sector that he's so abhorred. So I don't understand that plea. Surely you should want us to pay off that debt so that we become more independent of that financial sector? If there is a crisis, we are more sovereign as a government to choose what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u36	I find nothing but what the D66 Group is saying, but it is not a black and white story; it is a matter of gradations. In a crisis situation, it's best to go temporarily with your government debt to 70%, 80% of your GDP, as long as you work towards the 60% of the EU, regardless of whether you, as a D66 group, would like to meet that 60% standard. We're on a 49% sovereign debt now. So there is enough room to do so in a crisis situation. What we need to talk about now is the question of what is an acceptable level of government debt. My group believes that there is now far too much repayment of that public financial debt, more than is necessary to be able to invest again in times of crisis. That space should be there, I agree with Mr Sneller, but that space is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u37	So far. Thank you. Then Mr. Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We look back on a so far good economic year: rising purchasing power, lower unemployment for all age groups and lower public debt. However, the estimates also show that we are slowly returning to lower potential growth, that unemployment is likely to rise slightly and that exports are now actually falling. In the short term, we also have a number of major challenges. Thus the Brexit is getting closer, while the unclearness remains. But there is also the nitrogen crisis. My question to the Minister is: exactly how much damage has been done to the economy so far? We hear a lot of different figures about that. ABN calls it "enormous," ING says "it's not so bad" and DNB estimates the damage at about 0.1% GDP per year, while the CPB says: it's actually negligible this year. What is the Minister's assessment and what options are on the table to limit their adverse effects, for example on construction, if necessary? Another major challenge that I see is the persistent tightening of the labour market. In many other sectors, this is a brake on growth. Not only in the short term, but also more structural, there is a problem, because structural GDP growth is declining due to a shortage of labour. In recent years, more and more older people and women have participated in the labour market and this has led to a huge increase in prosperity, but this is not automatically expected for the future. In the end, there are two options to do something about that growth. This can be done on the one hand on the supply side: people who work more or more people who work. Or on the other hand: higher productivity. The question of whether we should break the part-time culture in the Netherlands is becoming increasingly pragmatous. The medium-term review of the Central Planning Office has already been referred to....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The ageing population, for example, will require 135 000 additional people by 2025. Moreover, due to the same rising healthcare costs, purchasing power growth can hardly be expected. In fact, collective healthcare expenditure increases to up to 100 billion a year. With the other hard-growing spending due to that ageing, we had a clear button, a clear instrument. We were able to raise the retirement age. But do we have such an instrument in the care? I haven't found it yet, and I think that makes the thinking here extra urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u39	Then I wonder which button Mr Sneller himself has in mind when he asks which button we could turn. Should life expectancy be adjusted downwards? Are we gonna do something about that? I can't imagine that, so let me ask you this: what does he propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u40	That's my question to the Minister, because I said I hadn't found him yet. That is why several parties have also provided about 250 measures together to the Central Planning Bureau to see what we can do. Then you just see that you have to go to a lot of different instruments and to a lot of different interventions. Mr Van Dijck began in his speech that purchasing power will stand still in the coming years. This is mainly due to the rising costs of care, and I think that is something we need to talk about much more often and in more detail. In previous debates, I also called on the Minister to come forward with plans and proposals. I am pleased that this is being looked at seriously in the context of the implementation of my motion on the broad review and that the cabinet will present a contour note in the spring. But more thought is needed. So if Mr Van Otterloo has found a button, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u41	There is a button that has not been touched for 12 years and that is that of the indexation of pensions. We know that we can spend 2 billion more a year if pensions are indexed. Purchasing power will then rise by 2 billion without affecting the state budget, but an interest rate will be chosen which will mainly ensure that money is taken from pension coverage from old to young. So that's a button that works against growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u42	The link with rising healthcare costs escapes me. However, I am glad that Mr Van Otterloo at least honours his predecessor as spokesman for finance and has managed to get the interest rate into it. The growth letter deals in particular with increasing productivity. As the letter rightly states, this is an urgent problem and not just a long-term problem. The PISA figures, an international education study, at the beginning of December showed that a quarter of the 15 year olds in the Netherlands are at risk of low literacy. These pupils can be less effective at school and in society because of their lower language skills. That's a hell of a conclusion! The cabinet rightly states that knowledge is a central prerequisite for our prosperity development and that therefore simply good education is not enough and excellent education is needed. What steps does the Minister intend to take to achieve this goal? The letter mentions, for example, the target of 2.5% of national income for research and development, research and development, but I do not yet see any growth path. How do we ensure that we regard education not only as a cost, but also as an opportunity to invest in the future workforce and increase their quality and productivity? I have also mentioned this in previous debates. What can we do to make this even clearer? How do we ensure that we make these future learning outcomes, Minister Wiebes, quite rightly writes warm words about this subject at the time of the investment? Does he think only of benefits and burdens, or is it indeed, as Mrs De Vries also asked, time to speed up the investment fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u43	I think it is wonderful how Mr Sneller can ask so many questions about education in response to such a hollow phrase letter from Minister Wiebes, who was very long, but which really did not contain any cabinet proposals. Does D66 intend to enforce the ambition expressed by the Minister of Education to release one billion for higher education during the last part of the cabinet period? Or is it just these questions, which can be answered by a hollow phrase?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u44	Mr Nijboer does not do the letter or he has not read it properly. I really like the ambition. In fact, I think that billion is a very nice ambition. I have already mentioned 2.5% of national income. Democracy here does not work in such a way that we are forced to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u45	That's how she works. If we can table an amendment by a majority saying that education is really important for the future of our country, the inequality of opportunity is increasing, and quality in some areas is deteriorating, and that we have to choose to do so, we can enforce it as a parliament. For education, especially if D66 participates, that is certainly possible. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, who is always very charmed by this, is also here today. We even have a Minister of Education who says that this is a good idea that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u46	In the previous financial debate, I told Mr Nijboer that I would like to see what is in his hand if he comes up with an offer. Then it turned out there was nothing in there. If there's more in it, I'd be happy to watch it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u47	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u48	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the Minister of Finance has always had a lot of money left. But if we look back a little further, it appears to have been the case not only in the years of surpluses, but also in a time of budget deficits. There is less and less spending than was planned. One of the central budgetary rules is that of the expenditure ceiling. Expenditure may not exceed that expenditure ceiling and the Minister for Finance strictly maintains it. When drawing up the budget, in the millions note, the expenditure ceiling is not exceeded. The framework must be closed. The Minister of Finance is also strict on the spring note. The ceiling shall not be exceeded. The same applies to the autumn note: the ceiling must not be exceeded. But what do we see year after year of the Final Act? There was less expenditure than the expenditure ceiling. You don't expect it, I'd almost say. In eight of the last ten years, there appeared to have been an ex post margin below the expenditure ceiling, at least 0.5 billion in 2015 and up to 5.2 billion last year, on average around 1.5 billion. The conclusion I draw is that there is structural room for additional expenditure within the budgetary rules. I am pleased with his handling, this time, with the in=terminal. I think that is part of the solution that he has rightly found here. I am very curious to see how the Minister of Finance looks at this wider problem and this solution. The solution I would recommend to him is to consider extra space, some kind of overprogramming. Then it'll probably be billions that we're left with a lot smaller. The Autumn Note also incorporates the sale of the Saudi British Bank, SABB. Maybe I'm saying it wrong, but I'd like to be corrected in the answer given by the Minister. Following the sale of ASR, the Chamber received from its predecessor the advice that NLFI had sent on this matter. I believe that this is important for good democratic control. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to send those opinions to the Chamber in this case too. In addition, I had some difficulty in precisely reconstructing the costs and revenues and the final result. I'll give it a short try. In my view, the sale of transaction costs cost 3 million and a settlement that still had to be settled, both of which were appointed, 94 million. There's 39 million set aside for a tax settlement. My question is: is this calculation correct and when will there be clarity about the tax we have to pay to Saudi Arabia? The yield is then 547 million minus that 136 million, net 411 million. But the total cost since the start of this whole exercise is 3.3 billion, if I am correct, 2.6 billion for the purchase and 700 million for the interest. Is it true that we've made 2.9 billion losses in the end? Not that the goal was ever to make a profit, but we do want to know what the reckoning is. As regards ABN AMRO, we have already noted that the Minister has not sold a share of it in the last two years, while it has lost several billions. It's hard for the Chamber to check exactly what happened. We shall come back to this in a different way. However, I would like to say something about the capital distribution, the superdividend of the Volksbank, which was also mentioned by Mr Nijboer in the previous Vao. The Minister himself writes that it is a decision of principle and importance. In the VAO he said in the direction of Mr Nijboer that he is not about it, but in the wipe note he mentioned, I read that his approval is required. I would ask you to clarify this. I thought it was a remarkable decision, because during the debate we had earlier on this, I did not hear this coming along, when we heard from that debate that there was an investment need at the Volksbank in, for example, ICT, to shape human-size banking, for which there was broad support. It has also been discussed that the bank must be socially involved and financially resilient. Mr Nijboer mentioned a 5.3% leverage ratio. I take it from the news that it is going to be 4.9%, whereas indeed, as Mr Nijboer rightly said, the lower limit is 4.75%. Then it comes to me, as they say "too close for comfort." How, for example, did the Minister use a shock test to determine what would have to be done to fall below the limit that you really do not want to fall below? In other words, can the Minister say a little more about this decision? Finally. A motion has been passed to make the Municipal Fund more predictable and stable. In the letter we received today, there are four variants to achieve this. This can be chosen later, and I quote: 'when the situation arises'. I realise that the Minister has only been co-responsible for this policy area for a number of hours, but I hope that he will be able to put into practice the conditions under which that is exactly the case, especially since the CPB already estimates an under-exhaustment of 3 billion for next year. So it seems to me to be something that we should take into account already. This question will probably become relevant next year, even if we would rather not see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u49	Thank you. A question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u50	A few weeks ago, D66 had a conference. They then called on the cabinet to show more ambition. That is a positive view of the matter. In my speech, I criticised the cabinet for a lack of ambition, especially when you see that much can still happen in society, for example in terms of sustainability. Is it then possible to continue with the interruption debate we had just had before D66 that a less large surplus could be acceptable if the cabinet showed more ambition to tackle that kind of problem in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u51	Speaking of the climate, yesterday we sat together in a hearing with the financial sector where the cabinet was dismissed as being too ambitious in terms of climate. So I think this cabinet is very ambitious, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u52	That then contradicts what D66 himself concluded at a D66 congress. I'm looking for the answer to the question of what kind of D66 is leading. Is that the public debt, which is already rather low, or is that the content and the problems in society? Is it possible for D66 to discuss that the government is taking an extra step, doing something more to tackle these problems in society, even if that means that next year and the following year we don't have as big a surplus as this year? It is already somewhat lower, but then we can, for example, strive for a budget balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u53	Contrary to Mr Alkaya, I think it is important, while the economy is still running reasonably well, to pay off public debt so that we remain outside the danger zone of that 60%. Mr Alkaya spoke in reply to a question I asked about gradations and then went easily towards the 80% of the national income where the debt was allowed. Then we're not talking about gradations anymore, Mr. Alkaya. So now we have to make sure that the public debt is repaid. On the contrary, I have called for more ambition and perhaps overprogramming to ensure that there is no under-exhaustment. This is how the ambitions we have can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u54	Thank you. Then Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 21.7 billion. The numbers were already on your mind tonight, but I'm gonna start with it anyway. 21.7 billion is the amount that the cabinet had planned to spend more than is currently foreseen for the cabinet period when it took office. 21.7 billion in care, education, infrastructure, defence. That is an immense amount of promised investments that are not being made. The core criticism that the PvdA has on the cabinet is that it has a great deal of interest in public finances, which are also very good at it, but lacks awareness of the needs and problems of society. Although some extra funding is provided for education, it is occasional, while the structural problems in education accumulate. Health care is spent less than promised year after year, while the problems can be experienced in the youth care sector, in ggz and in the care of the elderly. In the newly concluded collective agreement for hospitals, a nice wage increase has been agreed, but the hospitals themselves say that they may not be able to pay it. How's the cabinet looking at it? Is it prepared to make money available for it now, unless there is some money left over from care? Of course, that must always be done under conditions. You should never blind it. Is the Cabinet prepared to make money available to improve the working conditions in healthcare, not only in hospital care, but in general care, in order to reduce the workload of nurses and people working in home care and hospitals and to increase the appreciation? Mr. Chairman. The municipalities see most of the expenditure as lagging behind the government's intentions. They're on the ropes. I have already said in these debates that this is not about the municipalities themselves, but about the facilities offered by the municipalities. The right-wing parties say the ozb is going up. That is indeed a consequence, because the shirt is closer than the skirt. I also say to Mrs De Vries that even right-wing lectures increase the ozb by a percentage. But that is the result of government policy. I am particularly concerned about libraries, youth care, social services, the village houses. On the one hand, each municipality announces ozb increases and, on the other hand, cuts in social services, while the cabinet does not get the money spent. I don't think I can explain that. To be honest, the whole Chamber doesn't think it's gonna explain. A motion has also been tabled to the General Reviews on this subject. I believe that Mr Segers was the first signatory to this motion. I received a letter today, and thought that it was resolved: there will be some slippage, there will be some extra money, there will be enough money, and then the problems will be averted. But nothing could be further from the truth. There's another variant study coming up. But all in all, ozb increases just go in as of January 1st, the village houses are closed, swimming pools are closed and youth care is still insufficient. What is the Minister of Finance going to do to avoid these needless cuts? Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point of criticism. This concerns the provision of information to and the budgetary right of the Chamber. Other groups have also spoken about this. Mrs De Vries said that EBN cost 450 million, almost half a billion; that may be true, but it is nice if the Chamber is also informed about it. She said it very politely. Mr Snels' comment was basically, although he didn't say so, that it's getting a little messy with all that spending that's still going on in the autumn note and that shuffling, and that it's almost impossible to follow. I personally believe that the Court's budget law is too much at risk, given the expenditure on Groningen, the compensation for Shell and Exxon with which Minister Wiebes concluded a billion-dollar deal in a general agreement that is irreversible, a kind of private law agreement which now adds an additional claim of 90 million, because gas extraction is being further reduced. As a committee for economic affairs, we have asked Parliament's lawyer to look into this. It has suggested that I take this suggestion and ask the cabinet to take it over as well, so that, if necessary, we can start a suspension procedure in the Chamber, so that the Chamber will ultimately have control of that money and the cabinet will no longer be able to sign it when we actually have nothing more to say and can only send away the minister, and that is a very extreme consequence. I wonder how the cabinet looks at this. Mr. Chairman. I had a fierce debate with the Minister earlier on the provision of information on the purchase of KLM shares. Today we read on the front page of the NRC and on page 2 of the Volkskrant that the minister of his own officials was advised that this information was unlawful. I want to know what's going on with this minister. Did that advice come through? And how did he come by to do it anyway? Earlier this week, the Chamber received a letter from the Minister, who probably saw the messages coming, because it was a WOB request in which he wrote: you did not sign the protocol. I recall that there was a fierce discussion. The reason for not signing that protocol was that the Minister of Finance did not want to make a report and the Chamber did. That was the status quo that didn't get the protocol. So it is not just the Chamber; it is also the Minister's refusal at the time. But the points mentioned by the Minister are not valid. So he says it had to be on restricted committee because of its timeliness. But with SNS there was much more time in between; the nationalization of SNS lasted six to nine months. The second point mentioned by the Minister is that the Registrar was not invited, because there was no need to report. But that is not the legal position of the clerk. It is precisely to ensure that Members of Parliament are informed by the Minister, that the constitutional information position of the Chamber is safeguarded and that the chairmen of the political groups can be informed and that they can be consulted. In short, I am very critical of how the Minister has dealt with the purchase of KLM shares, which we have supported in substance. I want him to answer for that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, because I see my time is up. You're very strict, so I have to stick to that time and I'm used to sticking to it. The Wopke Wiebesfonds has not yet been able to get my enthusiasm. I also found the letter of growth extremely unconvincing. That was just a chat. This while the most important point, Kamerwide shared, is that there needs to be structural additional investment in education. If you leave that out in this time, you don't know the price of ignorance yet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u56	Right to the second. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u57	Mr. Chairman. Good thing the Minister started the previous debate, the VAO State participations, by reminding us that this afternoon we lost a competent, honest and involved Secretary of State, a Secretary of State who gave everything in the hope that unjustly treated parents would soon receive justice in a fellow-human way. I hope that the resignation of this expert Secretary of State, whom I highly appreciated, will be a wake-up call for the entire IRS, starting at the top. And I hope that the maleized surcharge system disappears as quickly as possible into the oblivion of history. Mr. Chairman. The Autumn note provides the picture that has been common in recent years, the picture of underspending and then decisions on additional expenditure, and a Giga surplus of 10.4 billion. Probably that's the last thing for now. Indeed, the expected economic growth for the coming years is significantly lower. According to the MLT, we will return to the new normal in the coming years, with an average economic growth of 1.1%. We are heading from an average surplus of 0.6% to an average deficit of 0.3% in the following period. The well-known counter-named effect will further reduce public debt in the years to come, but obviously the strong investment agenda for the coming years has not yet been taken into account. In addition, the long-term perspective looks significantly less thriving according to the CPB sustainability figures. I have a question for the Minister. According to the CPB, the 2014 sustainability surplus turns into a deficit, mainly caused by a wide range of policy decisions of this cabinet and extra rapidly rising healthcare expenditure in the future. However, there is a tree to set up whether the CPB has used the correct discount rate and makes the correct assumption about the ratio of this discount rate to the assumed productivity development or not. long-term economic growth. These assumptions of the CPB determine the outcome of the sustainability calculations. Is the Minister also surprised that negative interest rates on government bonds do not seem to have a real macroeconomic impact in the ageing population study of the CPB? Is the discount rate of 2,5% used by the CPB not far too high? Professor Bas Jacobs came in an earlier calculation at a discount rate of up to 1,5%. What economic significance is such as a sustainability deficit of 1.6% of GDP, or 16 billion in the billions of 2025, actually? I am curious to see the Minister's views on these matters. And I am curious to see what these insights mean for the working party on discount rates set up by the Minister, which concerns the discount rate to be used in social cost-benefit analyses of investment projects. Do negative government interest rates not require a re-evaluation of macroeconomic policies and fiscal policies for all periods of time? I realize that it all sounds a bit technical, but the applied discount rate has a big impact on how heavy costs and benefits in the distant future now count in policy decisions. Mr President, back to expenditure. It is a good thing that the cabinet is using the extra space under the spending frameworks to make some more necessary expenditure. The major problem of nitrogen deposition is being tackled, the approach to the shortage of teachers has been given a boost, the police is given a little more space and the social lawyer can breathe a little bit more.This can only be a first step, I say, but it is at least a first step. In addition to this additional expenditure, there are still major challenges. Mr Nijboer mentioned it as well: the exploded expenditure in youth care, social support, the need for an ozb increase in the municipalities, savings on swimming pools and libraries... The causes of these high cost increases and their structural nature are currently being investigated in depth. This discussion will certainly be continued in the spring paper, but I am very concerned about that. Mr President, I will conclude. I have tabled a proposal for a relatively limited additional expenditure on one subject. Many young people who come from special secondary education or practical education are at home. Sometimes they have some work to do, but then they easily get out of the picture. Since many of these young people are not entitled to benefits up to the age of 27, there is no incentive for municipalities to mediate them to work. Apart from social costs, it is, of course, particularly terrible for these young people themselves if they are left to their own devices. Last year, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) provided financial impetus to help young people from civil society and practical education to get to work. I would like these funds to be available by 2020. That is why I and some of my colleagues have tabled an amendment to make 8.5 million available through the Municipal Fund to the labour market regions, which will allow them to accompany young people to work from home and practical education. It should be noted that there is also an earlier version of this amendment. That version is no longer correct and I would like to withdraw it. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 35350-XV, No. 3. I would like to move that in here. Mr President, so far in this first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u58	The Bruins c.s. amendment (Part No 35350-XV, No. 3) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u59	When I look at the clock, I've been 37 seconds past time, so that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u60	I thought we'd start with the bad news. But come on, I'll set you back to five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u61	Thank you, Mr President. It is the last budget debate in 2019. They are good growth rates with a large surplus, but a harvest year has not been much. In a few days most pensioners will have a start of the twelfth year without compensation for increased prices. If we did that with the minimum wage and had to be reduced by €250 a month at once, the shock would have been great. But it's like it's normal for you to turn in a lot every year when you're retired. Then the CBS will of course pass by to say that if you live in a rental house, you have become richer because of the property. But that doesn't help much either, because that doesn't mean you. When we look at the situation, we see that ageing is directly referred to as the biggest problem for the sustainability of finances and as the biggest problem for labour productivity, but the question is whether it is. The CPB has now released a scenario. That scenario is rather shabby and unimaginative, because there is only one movement, namely that in the coming years there will be less technological innovation. The question is why. If it's a compliment to my generation, I'd be happy to receive it. But I think it is wrong to go back from 1.5% to 1% at once. I'm having two grandchildren next year. At the end of the period the CPB calculates they are 60, because then it is 2080. They would have contributed less than my generation in their entire lives. I can tell you that they are likely to be hereditaryly burdened with some nervousness, so I still have some confidence that they will contribute to economic growth, including through technological development, and that it will not stand still. It is particularly gloomy that ageing is used, whereas ageing opportunities exist. Thanks to the ageing population, a lot has been saved. It is the best climate plan you can imagine, because money is available at very low interest rates. In fact, it's virtually for nothing to get into business. We should do so much more. On the other hand, many older people face problems. For example, we have been able to read in the newspaper "De Telegraaf" about, for example, reports that a number of people are running into problems with their refund-free mortgage. Now we've known this problem for a number of years, but nothing is being done about it. I would urge this Minister to do something about this quickly. Soon doesn't mean I expect him to change all the rules in January, but he's coming up with a plan to deal with these redemption-free mortgages, because those people are getting into trouble. And those people can't say, "I'll sell my house and find a social home." In the social housing sector, these homes are not available either. Perhaps the Volksbank can play a role in taking over these mortgages, because we find that ordinary commercial banks have great difficulties in reaching an agreement with the people with such a mortgage. Also, there appears to be a large group of people who might surprise some people who, if they sell the property, would even hold a residual debt. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I will come back to the rate of calculation; I will not disappoint Mr Sneller. I was talking about the need for more money to be pumped into the economy. I ask again on behalf of 50PLUS why the discount rate is 3% when it comes to the climate, when it comes to long-term sustainability at 2.5%, and around 1% when it comes to calculating pensioners' rights. That is a good example of incomprehensible and inconsistent government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u62	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party. Then I'm gonna suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u63	Mr. Chairman. Actually, the Autumn note doesn't deserve to be rushed through on a Wednesday night, because it's a lot of money. We are going to distribute EUR 1.3 billion just as quickly. You can do a lot of beautiful things with that and let me be complimentary about that: so does the Minister. I would like to continue with the compliments, because with the 2020 Millions' Note, public debt was still 49.2%, but with the Autumn Note, I can even see a fall to 49.1%. I'd say keep up the good work, Minister! And if those steps get a little bigger, the SGP won't mind. Mr. Chairman. 500 million is also earmarked for tackling the problem of nitrogen. 250 million of these are for nature restoration and improvement. Furthermore, the note does not address the distribution of the reserve. My first question to the Minister is whether he could give a little more insight into the distribution, if he has that. Mr. Chairman. The in=terminal is still 562 million. This has already been mentioned by colleagues. This will be completed next year in the annual financial report. Is the Minister sure that this amount will actually be filled in? And what would be done if it didn't work out? We have asked factual questions about this, but the answer we received was just as factual as the question itself. There was no discussion of the procedure in the event that the money was not filled in, while the money was substantial. The fact that the Autumn note has already used the current shortcomings does not make it easier for the Minister. I would very much like a more substantive response to this. There will also be more money for tackling undermining, legal aid and security and protection measures. That is very good and much needed, but it is largely a one-off money, while we are talking about structural problems. Can the Minister reflect on that? Does he consider it desirable that we should tackle structural problems with occasional investment, or are there other prospects for this? Then there is the budget reserve for renewable energy. By now, it has risen sharply to over 3 billion. As part of the Tax Plan, we have already tabled an amendment as a SGP to reduce the rate of storage of renewable energy from this large budget reserve. But then it was said that it could not, because that whole amount is already legally mandatory. Indeed, the Economic Affairs budget confirms that this reserve is 100% legally compulsory. But it also mentions that 1.5 billion should be seen as a necessary buffer for any setbacks. So the total reserve is legally mandatory, but a very large part of it is buffer. I would very much like to have some further clarification from the Minister as well. Mr. Chairman. My final point is the financial soundness, the sustainability of public finances. A study came out yesterday from the Central Planning Bureau, with a nice overview with some graphs and tables. This simply shows that public finances are not sustainable in the long term. As a SGP, we are always committed to this financial soundness, and I think we have the Minister on our side. But my question then is what needs to be done in order to remain financially sound in the future. Can we ensure that public finances remain sustainable in the long term? What is the Minister himself going to do about this declining image? I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u64	Thank you. I'm suspending until 8:15. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u65	A small correction: I'm suspending until 8:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u66	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for giving me a little longer time to take a break, because that gave me not only the opportunity to prepare me for this debate, but also to talk briefly with the parents who had come for this afternoon's debate. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are talking about the Autumn Note, the latest progress report, many of you in your Chamber have already referred to the year 2019, before we formally close the year. In that Navy note, the Cabinet shows whether the implementation of the state budget is on track for that year. We saw, of course, in the run-up to this Autumn note, that there was under-exhaustment. We have also tried to use the space there is or was in the Navy's note for a number of really urgent and major social problems, such as the undermining crime, legal aid, the problem of education and, of course, the problem of nitrogen. I am going to say more about each of these issues in a moment, but that is, of course, what is most striking in that Navy note. Mr. Chairman. I will start with the first part of the CPB's budgetary picture and thinking. Two. The under-exhaustment. There's a lot to say about that. Three. I will deal specifically with the issues of the Navy Note, which have also been raised by a number of Members. Five. The revenue. There were few questions about that, but I will briefly mention them. Six. Purchasing power. Seven. I am going to make that a separate block, because it is a matter of budgetary law and the questions raised by Mr Nijboer in particular. And eight. Other, which also contains a number of questions. Mr. Chairman. Where are we with regard to public finances? You could say that they haven't really changed since the Millions Note. The revenue has remained virtually the same and the expenditure picture does not change that much, because we have re-voted the downswing to which Members of your Chamber referred. We do have a significant surplus for this year. That is as big as we thought before, namely 1.3% of GDP. The public debt then improves very little, by 0.1 percentage points compared to the Millions Note. This brings us to the 49.1 to which Mr Stoffer and, in my view, Mr Alkaya referred. That's where yesterday's news comes in. The planning agency has also published new estimates. One of the questions I got right was, "What are you doing with that? For there are several agencies that have windows and have thoughts about them." As Minister of Finance, of course, you are always interested in each of those views, because you try to understand why behind the different projections and you also try to understand where the differences come from. But it is obvious to me as Minister of Finance to regard the planning agency as leading. Mr. Chairman. There was, of course, another message: let me take it with me immediately from the planning agency, namely that the sustainability is significantly deteriorating. That's because of the ageing population. This is due to the choice of the cabinet, which has been supported by many parties in this Chamber, to do something about pensions. This is due again to a choice which I believe is supported by many and to which Mrs De Vries referred in particular, namely an additional reduction of the burden, on top of the reduction of the so-called basic path. That means something, by the way. It does indeed mean that in the longer term the sustainability potential will be in difficulty. Mr Bruins was right to ask: but what do we think of this assessment by the planning agency, and should you not look at the discount rate? That discount rate is a relevant measure, and it's exactly why I've asked people to work with it. It is very relevant for this type of calculation. I would like to say to Mr Bruins, and he will probably recognize that, of course, the planning agency will then be independent again. So it is not for me to go to the planning agency to do the discount rate that I think is most appropriate. At best it is the other way around: that they give me orders that they think fit for me. Mr Stoffer asked whether public finances would be sustainable in the long term or not. There are several sides to that. Mr Stoffer, of course, is touching on a delicate point there. That shelf life has really deteriorated. There are choices on which I find very explanatory, which the cabinet considers very defensible and which I believe many in the Chamber consider very defensible. On the other hand, we are able to reduce public finances by about 20% in this cabinet period compared to the beginning of 2017. So that's huge; that's really about many tens of billions. However, on the debit side of that story, there are questions about the sustainability of public finances. Mr Stoffer is right about that. And then I'm actually back to the triangle that I talk to the Chamber about more often and in which you're always looking for balance. First of all, you want to invest heavily in schools, in police officers, in roads, in climate, in defence, and you name all those issues. That is a broad wish; see also today's debate. That's what the Cabinet does very much. Secondly, we want the burden to be as low as possible. That already gives tension with the first part, because that money has to come from somewhere. But of course we want the burden to be as low as possible and that is why we have further reduced it compared to the basic path in the August decision-making process preceding this Millions note; see Mrs De Vries' comment again. The third piece is that of course we also make the bill that we transfer to the next generation as small as possible. Because I understand perfectly well that the money belongs to the citizen, as Mr Van Dijck said. That's very close to the words I often use myself. The investments are also being made on behalf of the citizen and the public debt is being paid, whether we like it or not, by the citizen. It is also about money that we have borrowed in the past; some would say that we have borrowed too much. It's an amount of about 400 billion. Fortunately, interest charges are much lower than in the past, but the interest charges of order size are still 4.5 billion next year. That is money that we do not spend on each of the issues that we consider to be of great importance, see also this debate. Mr. Chairman. I will, of course, keep Mr Bruins informed of developments in the discount rate, because I really see with him that this is a relevant issue for how the calculations work out. I am also, of course, reading what other economists have said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u68	If you look at the discount rate, you might also be able to look at the effects of immigration on sustainability. The CPB has said that it does look at care and the ageing population, but not at immigration, because it is too complicated. In other words, if you let 2 million people from abroad into the Netherlands, that might be interesting to look at. Today, the population forecast shows that you intend to do so again in the coming years, up to 2050, again 2 million people, so that might well have an impact on the sustainability of finances. Why isn't the Minister looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u69	I think Mr Van Dijck started by asking why the planning agency is not looking at it. The planning agency is on its own to see what it wants to look at. As far as this subject is concerned, I should like to refer to the General Political Reviews, because this subject came along at that time. Then there was a reaction from the cabinet to what would or would not be good to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u70	That's right, the CPB isn't looking at that. But since the Minister is now looking outside the CPB at the effect of discount rates, I would ask the Minister to look at the impact of immigration on the sustainability of finances. Because these immigrants are all getting older, and they are all going to be getting older. In other words, the sustainability of finances could be greatly improved if we closed the borders today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u71	I would like to refer to the previous debate that has taken place on this subject. Which brings me to the underexhaustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u72	Under-exhaustment is always a good subject. We have now received the growth letter from Minister Wiebes. The Minister himself has previously promised, if I remember correctly, that he will come as his vision of the fund, I shall say, also give his vision of long-term interest rates. I think that is the time to answer Mr Bruins' question and therefore comment on the ageing of the Central Planning Bureau and give a little more insight into what it means if you look at that discount foot in a different way. This has a direct relationship with the idea, the expectation, that interest rates will continue in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u73	That's a good suggestion. The idea is, of course, that the working party would be ready. I want to buy some freedom, because I don't want to impose a deadline on people, when they might have thought to find it somewhere else entirely. But I do see what Snels says, namely that these subjects, of course, have a very important relationship. So let me promise him that if this is not to be settled in the process, this information must be taken into account in the wider discussion on what low interest rates mean. Because I very much agree with him. Mr President, the under-exhaustment. In the Millions note, there was an understatement of a small 0.5 billion. In the Navy's note, it's gotten a little bit further. Several members of your Chamber have also asked about this. I'd like to mark two more things. I think the members of your chamber recognize that as well. The first is that the frameworks we agree on are maximum expenditure frameworks. I have said to my colleagues in the cabinet that it does not necessarily have to be done; it is the maximum that we make available, that is not the intention, but that you should spend it wisely. That's the first thing. Secondly, I understand very well that we are focusing on the underexhaustment. I'm about to say more about the Municipal Fund and Province Fund. Mr Nijboer referred to this problem, as did Mr Sneller, Mrs De Vries and Mr Slootweg. The under-exhaustment, however relevant and politically relevant, is still relatively limited when you look at the many hundreds of billions we spend, but of course we all see that there are effects that we would have liked to have different. I have said here earlier in the Financial Reviews and other debates to the Members of your Chamber that, of course, I am not trying to secretly decorate some extra underexercise. It's just a cabinet commitment. On the one hand, however much I stick to the frameworks, on the other hand, I am completely on the same page with the ministers responsible to spend the money there. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the collective agreement for care, Mr Nijboer asked whether the cabinet was prepared to make additional funds available. I was, of course, pleased that the parties were able to conclude a collective agreement. I find it a little complicated to go through that process again, precisely because people have agreed. So I see no reason to do anything about it, and I do not see any possibility of doing so now, quite frankly. Moreover, Mr Nijboer himself pointed out that this was an incidental item of expenditure in the Navy's note. Mr Sneller asked for management tools in the care sector. That is a very valid point. Minister Bruins, and also Minister De Jonge, has done a great deal about this. Minister Bruins has concluded major agreements. This does indeed mean something for reducing the increase in healthcare expenditure. Mrs De Vries is right to ask me more often: the ESC and the WRR are busy. The ESC is expected to be in early 2020 and the WRR is expected to arrive at the end of 2020, beginning 2021. That is a considerable time, but I'm sure it will be extremely thorough. The civil service exercise has started wide-ranging social reviews and will be completed in March 2020. Let me also say that this is very clearly on the agenda of the VWS ministers. We all see that care in the Netherlands is very good and that it is fantastic that it is there for everyone, but also that healthcare spending has the ability to push all the other children out of the nest like a cuckoo. That's really complicated. You can't solve that easily. Mr Sneller asked for specific management tools. I couldn't think of the debate he had with Mr Van Otterloo either what the magic bullet or the magic button would be. It's still an intriguing question. I very much hope that the ESC, the WRR and the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs will come up with ideas that we could use. Mr. Slootweg asked about under-exhaustment in medical specialists. He also asked about the undersubordination for community nursing. For the record, these are provisional figures. For example, the failure of the Zvw care of 0.6 billion is based on the realization figures for the first two quarters of 2018. I would understand if Mr Slootweg said that he was surprised, because I am surprised too, but those are the figures we are dealing with at the end of 2019. They give us the best possible estimate. I have also sometimes asked whether you could not use more recent figures, but that is complicated at least at the moment. Mrs De Vries was quite right to ask: yes, but what about the estimates? This is constantly being discussed with the departments concerned. Wherever there's reason, we're really trying to adapt them. We have also, of course, made a few adjustments to spring paper estimates which often work on a structural basis. So we're really trying to do that. This review shall take into account the independent estimates of the CPB. I think we're doing it nicely. However, I do recognise that, especially in the case of VWS, where we are also talking about very large sums of money, an adjustment of the estimates has an immediate effect. Mrs De Vries asked what actions have been taken at the moment to find a solution to the sustainability deficit. I just feel strengthened in the thought that something must be done there. The picture of yesterday's Central Planning Office was not easy for me to say. I can only charge myself, but on the basis of the signals given when the cabinet negotiated the pension agreement, I had the cautious hope that the total sum would really be more favourable than what we were presented yesterday. I agree with Mrs De Vries and Mr Stoffer that there is a greater challenge for politics, for the cabinet, to see how to maintain the facilities or make them even better, how to distribute the burdens fairly but also keep them quite low, and how to ensure that you do not let them go. I am thus a long way from Mr Wiebes' letter, because we will simply have to strengthen that economy. Mrs De Vries also asked what we are doing to move towards 2% of NATO. In 2014, the Heads of State and Government agreed to make that movement at the NATO summit in Wales. This cabinet has taken a significant step, because there has been no budget that has increased as much as the Defence budget, even at the start of this cabinet period. During the last spring negotiations, we have taken another big step, ascending to, out of my head, 470 million. That's gonna end after that. In all honesty, I say that does not bring us to that 2%. This is a task that will also apply to subsequent Cabinets. Mr President, then it is a sigh, because this is what makes it complicated. In this debate, but always when I speak to Members of your Chamber, from all kinds of political circles, I hear a great deal of desire to spend even more on many issues that I too consider important. In these talks, too, the desire for even more relief comes around the corner. But I rarely or never come across politicians in Dutch politics who then have a plan with things that we could spend less on or spend money in such a way that it will yield more, and who also have something that comes close to a parliamentary majority for those plans. That is a sigh which I think I can share with the Chamber in this debate. It is not only a task for now, but also a task for future Cabinets: the combination of this type of choice, not just spending more, but also a parliamentary majority which translates itself into a cabinet that can remain stable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u74	Your demands are getting higher and higher. That's how I can do it. Mr. Alkaya had just prepared an interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u75	Mr Alkaya would have found a coalition of opportunity with which he would destroy the cabinet. Then tonight I have to explain to the Prime Minister that that was actually my fault. That's why I added this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u76	So towards the end the image indeed became a bit more total. If you add enough criteria, it's true at some point. Then you get closer to reality. We have made a counter-budget in the run-up to the General Political Reviews which provided for more expenditure, but in which more revenue was also put against it. At the General Financial Reviews I tabled a motion, together with the D66 Group, to examine, in the context of the reform of capital taxes, how assets over a million more could be taxed. So the image that the minister sketches here is not correct at all. There are plenty of coalitions that could come to different choices and where the strongest shoulders could also bear more burdens, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u77	That is why one of my criteria was not to further increase the burden. That was in one of Mr Alkaya's plans, albeit not for everyone, but for specific groups. But of course I can only wish Mr Alkaya every success in the next formation, because then there will be another moment to look at what there may or may not be sustainable majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u78	This is an important point. It is constantly said that expenditure should also be cut if expenditure becomes unsustainable in the future. But of course you have certain categories of income that have only been reduced in recent years. Those were political choices. The income tax is going to lower the cabinet further next year, and we have been able to read in the Navy's note that the income from that income tax is higher than we thought. In other words, the reduction will prove to be more expensive than expected. If there are cuts on the other hand, then the Minister's whole story simply does not add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u79	Mr. President, you make one sigh and immediately you have a whole ditch of interruptions on your pants. But that's the way it should be, of course! I would like to say the following to Mr Alkaya. Also on the spending side of the state budget, the Planning Bureau and the Council of State have been saying since 2017 that it is an expansionary budget. They say the expenses are on the edges of what's still justified. Furthermore, the cabinet has not begun to spend less structurally. We've been moving around a bit, but that's all in the margins. So we are still doing very heavy expenditure, even though we have further reduced the burden. And yes, this is at the expense of the structural balance and the long-term sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u80	I recognize the grievance of the Minister in my own group, and I dare say that with no one here in the gallery! The main point of my speech was that we see in the Autumn note that a lot of those windfalls have been used again for new policies. I saw the December estimate of the Central Planning Bureau and in the coming year, according to the CPB, there is still an underexhaustment of about 0.5% of GDP. That's over 4 billion. Does this mean that this not-too-strong Minister of Finance will have a new decision-making moment in the spring paper, which will allow us to spend another billion or four on important social issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u81	The appreciation of 'not too strict' to 'extremely strict' almost varies from one debate to another and sometimes, if I may say so, how it happens to happen to a specific item on the agenda. Of course, I am happy to take all the criticism, but let me now confine myself to the planning agency and the Council of State. They have repeatedly said that the cabinet spends too much or on the edges of too much. The underspending. Of course, where there was structural under-utilisation or where there were estimates, for example in the area of care, we used the last spring negotiations to create new policies and to spend extra money. For example, we used those estimation adjustments and a number of other things from what was left at VWS for education, for example, and that was really order size of many hundreds of millions. After all, we have been investing extra in wo and have tried to do something about it. I referred to that when I just answered a question from Mrs De Vries. That money did not go into the treasury during the last spring round, and that will be the case in the coming round. That money does not go into the treasury, but is used for policy wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u82	Certainly, Minister. But seriously, this Autumn note is a very policy-rich autumn note. This is all occasional, whether it is about education or about tackling nitrogen, climate, undermining and social lawyering. Especially now that we know the December estimate of the Central Planning Bureau and the windfalls are still increasing to half a percentage point of GDP, I would like to ask the Minister whether we can expect structural policy from the Cabinet on all these issues. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister whether this will be on the decision-making agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u83	If I said yes at the first part of that question, I have an incredible amount of trammel. That is, of course, exactly the kindness of Mr Snels' question, because he knows how it goes. We're about to have those negotiations in the spring. All ministers will come up with their wish lists. They're always wide and deep. There are totally reasonable and much more reasonable plans on this; let me put it positively. The cabinet will then have to make choices in scarcity. I understand Snel's question very well: are we going to make things structural? In education and undermining, we have really tried to do what we can now do, because this is where the autumn note lends itself. The debate will then come back to the table. If I had to give an assessment, it would seem logical, given the discussions that the minister for BVOM had with the educational field, that this is typically a discussion that will come back after this cabinet period. The undermining has clearly indicated that this is something that is obvious to bring back to the spring negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u84	I can understand the grievance of the Minister of Finance: how are you going to come up with a politically-behaved solution to spend less? But that was pretty much the sequel to what he first mentioned about that 2% for Defense. Am I supposed to see this as an excuse that this cabinet doesn't come to that 2%? Not even as a dot on the horizon, as Germany does? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u85	It wasn't so much about spending less. I do not have that illusion and I do not have that wish. I stand for many of the great investments made by the cabinet: in the teachers, in the security domain, in the Defense Department, in the climate. We consider all these issues to be extremely important. I personally consider it extremely important as a minister. Everything we're going to do on top of that in the coming years will come with a price. That price is either higher charges or higher public debt that we give to the next generation or something at the expense of the spending we are already doing. There are no more flavors. I wanted to say that in general. As far as the defence sector is concerned, I really think that the cabinet is taking a very big step with over 1.51 or 1.52 billion, the start-up note, and on top of that the many hundreds of millions from the last spring round. But I also want to be honest: that is not enough. Another investment will have to be made from the next cabinet period to get close to that 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u86	Then the real question. Suppose now you never know that this minister would be allowed to form a cabinet between now and a year and a half. Is he gonna tell you that he's gonna provide sustainable finances and that 2% for the DOD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u87	The current Prime Minister always teaches me that I cannot answer hypothetical questions. There is so much hidden in this question that I think it would be wise not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u88	He's learning. I think he could do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u89	He's in a learning path. I see we're in block two and we've got eight cubes. This is how it's gonna be night work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u90	Mr President, I am still trying to process the fact that you said that I am in a learning process. In itself, of course, that is not wrong. I was almost done with block two. I still had the in=terminal. Mr Snels asked for this and Mr Nijboer has often asked for it in the past. What kind of justification can I give? I've had an exchange of views with the Chamber before about the moment you should. I would, by the way, like to promise Snels once again to make the overview. That has sometimes come to pass in a written round of questions, but it is good to make an overview of how big it was in=out of typical in recent years and at what times I, but also my last two predecessors who have completed in=out. Then you see a pattern where each of the decision-making moments is used. I myself have already used the spring decision-making process and have been criticised by Mr Nijboer and others. Now I am doing the opposite, and the question from the Chamber was just as important as Mrs De Vries and Mr Slootweg's question is that prudent? Mr Stoffer also asked about it. Yes, I think that is prudent, because it is plausible, and in that I rely on my excellent official support that, even now that ministers have turned their pockets in order to have as much money as possible available in the Year's Note, we are still seeing some money coming in between the Year's Note and the Final Act. So I think it's plausible, but it's not entirely risk-free. If you wanted to do it any more prudently, maybe you should've done it all in the Navy paper. I think this can be defended. That's why I'm doing it now. You also try to sail a bit depending on the wind, depending on the underexhaustment. And if I do not fill in the deadline to answer that question at once, then I have a problem with the Chamber about my solidity, with some perhaps more than others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u91	This is a very technical debate. There are two questions. We have already discussed one question on several occasions: at what rate and at what extent is it actually being filled in? We are getting more and more insight into the budgetary documents and the written questions. But we rarely get insight into how it is filled out. What table is underneath? Where does this stuff take place? Where is the target found? I find it strange that we, as a Chamber, do not get an insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u92	Let me put a letter to that effect, because it is a subject that comes back more often. I would like to present these aspects together to the Chamber, because that clarifies the discussion. I'll take this question with me. I'll also take what was the typical pattern. Frankly, there hasn't been a pattern, because all kinds of moments have been chosen, with as one common denominator that has always been filled out. What I'm going to do now, if I get the approval of the Chamber for that, is plausible, but it's on the verge, because I'm doing it now after the Autumn note. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller felt it was a shame that eight times in the last ten years there had been a ceiling overrun at the FJR. In itself, of course, I understand that very well. I think that is, in part, inevitable. You never know exactly how big it is. As far as overprogramming is concerned, I can see that colleagues in the cabinet are really doing the best they can to spend at least the money they have at their disposal. I am not sure if the world will improve further if we organise overprogramming, because then you run the big risk of getting over it in the end. I would like to say to Mr Snelter that I would like to take this into account in the letter I just promised Mr Snels that we would also see if you could make an even better prediction at the end of the year. Because quite frankly, what I would like most is that you have as complete a picture as possible of the score at the autumn note. I knew I was faced with a problem in the area of nitrogen, with a problem in the area of teacher salaries, with a problem in the area of undermining. That is why I said to my colleagues in the cabinet: please ask as best as possible, turn your pockets, make the best possible assessment of where you are now. Then maybe we can solve some of those problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u93	I saw the minister the other day describing that he should actually work in a triangle: investing in society, paying off public debt and keeping the burden low. Then it seems crazy to me that he chooses a model where it comes out eight out of ten times to the bottom right when paying off the public debt. Well, then he'd have to want it to be a little more balanced. Then it's overprogramming, especially if you're going to do it structuralally and if colleagues have the resources and the people to get that money spent, I don't think that's crazy at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u94	By the way, this is in the context that we still have a debt of about 400 billion and 5 billion in interest payments. I wouldn't dare say on any of these subjects that the cabinet or society is doing just fine. To be honest, I can come up with a number of issues that I would like to invest more in. I can immediately agree with anyone who says "the burden should be further reduced." I can also agree immediately with anyone who says, Mr Stoffer in the lead, that the 400 billion can still do something. I don't know if I think the money is badly spent, but I think the suggestion is a good one. Can't you get even better insight so you can bury even better? I think that's actually what you should want. Overprogramming seems complicated to me, but I would like to say to Mr Sneller that we are looking again at how to map that even better, because you can then take that into account in the planning in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u95	In my opinion, you would like it to be some sort of random variation around that expenditure ceiling and not that you systematically see that it is a good idea if you have formulated those ambitions. The expenditure ceiling is set so that you know what you're going to pay off on public debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u96	Whatever I do not want to do, I assume that Mr Sneller agrees with me that some of my colleagues in the cabinet think: you know what, I'm just going to be one of the 50% who goes over it this year and then I'm going to assume that those others will stay underneath it. Of course, I also want to be able to make agreements by ministry, so that they all adhere to those frameworks. Those are maximum frames.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u97	Agreed. I want this minister to do 50%-50%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u98	I can imagine that the Minister is a little reluctant about D66's overprogramming. I'd say if you had space and a mission on education, demand it in the coalition. Then it's settled. There's room for that. I would ask the Minister how he looks at the 21.7 billion committed at the start of the cabinet in terms of expenditure, which, as it now looks like, is not being spent at all. Does he not think: what have I promised people and what does the cabinet ultimately make true?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u99	It's a fair question. Of course, I have also said to the Chamber before that I am really not on the brakes towards colleagues in the cabinet. They just have a right to spend the money we budgeted. It is, of course, the case that this must be done in a prudent manner. Otherwise, I'll have another discussion with the Chamber. That shouldn't be pushed away just to spend the money. It has to be prudent, but that money is just available. Moreover, Mr Nijboer will recognize that a large part of the money remains at his disposal. Defense and IenW are underutilized. That room is just being taken away. I simply agree with Mr Nijboer. I don't have some kind of brake on it. I don't think: that's well deserved, that's why I keep it in my pocket and that's why I'm sneaking around on the brakes all year round. It's absolutely not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u100	That's good. Then the follow-up question is: how can the Minister of Education say that there is an extra billion needed, that schools are closed or open four days a week and that teachers are stopped? There is only occasional money available for such structural matters. How could it be if the government itself had foreseen that it would spend more than 20 billion more than it does now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u101	I believe that we have achieved the expenditure we had planned in the field of education. During the last spring round, we added extra money for teachers' estimates. You could say they were disappointing. I think you should say that they looked good, because there were just more kids and young adults who started a study. At that time additional money was also made available structurally, especially for the wo-side. I fully understand Mr Nijboer's question. Of course, I would also like structural money for this education. I think the Minister of BVOM really did the best in those negotiations with the field. Almost half a billion have been released to cover the next two years. Then you're not entirely at the next formation. I think that was reasonable and that he really worked very hard for that. Wherever that could be, I tried to help, but that has been his merit and the resultant of his conversations with the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u102	Part of the problem that remains during this year is, of course, also in the impurities in the budgeting of revenue and in the budgeting of expenditure. In the round with written questions, we also asked how it could be that the income tax is so underestimated. Expenditure is concerned with care. There is always talk, including at the CPB, about rising healthcare costs. But there's a billion left. Moreover, that billion does not come back to people's premiums, because it is what we put on top of the premiums with taxpayers' money. But there are such large deviations that I would ask the Minister to take a serious look at another budgetary system, in order to ensure that you have a clearer picture of what is going on. Because the main agreement already existed in the previous cabinet period and is now there again. So that can't be a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u103	Mind if I hang up a little bit? If you look at the whole of the rich budget, I think it is quite impressive, to be honest, how much is well predicted and is proving to be quite accurate. Again, I really went a long way with Mr Nijboer. Of course you never make a point landing on 31-12. But the predictions are quite accurate when you consider how many different factors are at the root of each of these budgets. So I'd like to see where we can do better. In part, it is also up to the planning agency but also to our own figures. The better, the more natural it is for me. It is true what Mr Van Otterloo says, that the revenue side in particular on parts is sometimes difficult to predict. But even there, even with the tax on profits, for example, it is quite accurate. At best you can see that in high-conjuncture you often come out a bit more positive than you expected and in low-conjuncture often even a little worse than you expected. I've been able to understand that from the planning agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u104	It is, of course, the case that you have to take into account that the loss relief will generate less revenue. But you also know that the loss years have been and that you can get a relatively clear picture of what profits are and that those gains are also the result of government policy. In the division between labour and profit income, the cabinet opts for more profit income and not more labour income. So you can expect to get more income from the profits, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u105	My point was mostly about how accurate your prediction is at a specific post. Let me say a few words about the inheritance and gift tax, but take as an example the inheritance and gift tax: what is your prediction and to what extent does it come out? Take the income tax: what is your prediction and to what extent does it come out? With regard to labour versus capital, to put it classically, the cabinet made a very conscious choice, including in the decision-making process last August, to increase the benefits of the labour factor, namely the workers in this country, and to increase the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u106	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u107	Mr. Chairman. Not entirely reassuring, but that has to do with that learning curve: I am now at block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u108	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u109	Block three deals with the question of which things were mentioned in the Spring Note. I have, of course, already discussed a number of them. Let me begin by underlining what Mrs De Vries said in particular, and to a lesser extent Mr Snels. In principle, we have two decision-making moments in the Netherlands, and with that life is really more than complicated enough: the spring and the extremely cozy game that precedes the Millions Note. Many enjoy the journey through which I struggle in the dark. I think it is basically good to stick to those two decision-making moments. Then, of course, the next question is why the Cabinet does these things with Navy notes. That question is also contained in the question put by Mr Snels and Mrs De Vries. That is what the cabinet does because it feels that if there are urgent social problems that you can solve now and you would still choose the variant of postponement, and I fear that doing things irreversibly at the expense of other matters in the state budget... I have just tried to explain how difficult that is... you will end up in a completely different problem. So I felt, with colleagues in the cabinet, that given all the terrible things that have happened and given the problems we see in the area of undermining, it was really prudent to make an extra investment there. Same for the situation in education, as I have just explained. We really thought we should meet the educational field. Finally, I believe that the budget reserve for nitrogen is really sensible, because that is an urgent social problem. See also the debate that took place yesterday in the Upper Chamber. That money, of half a billion, can be spent again, for example in the field of nature and no doubt even more. So I think that is wise, but I agree with both speakers very much that it helps to keep it quiet, cleanliness and regularity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u110	You can also reverse the question. I think that's a bit of what Mrs De Vries and I are worried about. These are all structural problems. What if there had been no underexhaustment in the budget? I think that was ultimately the reason why the Minister of Finance could look at these major societal challenges. But suppose there had been no under-exhaustment in the budget, that this had not been found in the Navy's note. We wouldn't have done anything about nitrogen, nothing about education, nothing about undermining and nothing about social law. That is a curious observation. There are major societal challenges, but because there are coincidental windfalls in fiscal policy, because there is underexhaustment, we can tackle them. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been possible. That says something about the way in which we take decisions in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u111	Mr Snels wants me to shake off the Prime Minister's training on hypothetical questions right now, but I am going to answer part of it. I'd like to turn it around. There's money now. There are social problems, which we try to catch up with. I think that's what you can expect from the cabinet. Had that money not been there, we would have had all kinds of other complicated dilemmas, but we have now been able to do what we really thought was reasonable on each of these three subjects. I think that we have now taken a fundamental step on all three issues, no matter how many politicians will say that it must be more and that it was too little. Mrs De Vries asked whether the cabinet had any idea of the total budget needed for the problem of nitrogen. Mr Stoffer has asked if I have any more insight into the distribution of the reserve. The honest answer is no. That's exactly part of the puzzle we're putting in the cabinet right now. In Monday 16 December's letter, Minister Schouten indicated that the cabinet would come up with new measures at the beginning of 2020. I'll come back as soon as I can with an overview of what that costs. By the way, I will be leaning particularly on colleagues Schouten and Van Nieuwenhuizen. We have already discussed the various decision-making moments. Mr Sneller asked about the economic damage of the PFAs. The honest answer is that there is not yet a complete picture of this. Of course, we're going to prevent that damage as much as possible. The Minister for the Environment and Living is very busy working on this. It has announced a number of measures. It is important that appropriate pfas standards were published by the end of November. Again, we are going as fast and as fast as possible. Mr Sneller asked about the investment fund in this context. I think Mr Wiebes did exactly as we promised in the Millions Note. In the fourth quarter of this year there would be a letter from the cabinet on the investment agenda: how do we look at growth? Mr Wiebes sent it. He and I are talking very constructively together about the investment fund. This will bring us to the Chamber before the end of the first quarter of next year, so before 1 April, exactly as promised in the Prince's Day papers. Mr Van Dijck asked: how are we going to check that the money we have made available goes to the schools? Much of the funds have already been transferred to schools and the rest of the funds will be used in education, for example, later. The Chamber shall be informed of the use of all such means. Moreover, a small structural part of the education package has been done, because for teachers in secondary special education 16.5 million will be structurally available for a higher salary. I haven't had any questions about legal aid, which is also an important issue, so I'm gonna skip it. Mr Slootweg asked for structural resources to tackle undermining. My assessment is that the Justice Ministers will certainly raise this issue, but I find it complicated to commit to one subject. I must also be an honour broker to all colleagues in the cabinet. I have taken note of this particular wish of the JenV Ministers. I also recognise the big problem, but I want to do it properly and come back to it in spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u112	Let's get back to the money for education. A considerable amount of extra money is now being made available. The Minister says that this is being transferred to the schools, but that is for solving the workload and the shortage of teachers. I therefore believe that we, the House of Representatives, should be able to see what this extra money will do to solve these two problems. I have also asked for the same thing about nature, because this money is also made specifically available to solve the problem of nitrogen. Then, as far as we are concerned, it cannot be spent on other things around nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u113	I would like to agree with both points. It's two questions... I very much agree with Mrs De Vries. I also think it is a perfectly reasonable demand to share this with the Chamber, precisely because of everything we are trying to do in terms of efficiency and clarity. I would like to refer the questions with her approval to the ministers for agriculture and the OCW, or the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment and Housing, because I do not have a clear solution for this right now. I'd really like to pick it up from the Treasury Department. Then I will have the two colleagues in the cabinet, or the three colleagues in the cabinet, redirected that this is also a burning wish of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u114	It's nice that the Minister wants to pass on. But when I look at the Compatibility Act, I see a slightly heavier role for the Finance Minister to look at efficiency and effectiveness. In addition to passing it on to the ministers, I would like him to take up his role and ensure that this money is used effectively and effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u115	Absolutely. If I have made that point too small in the eyes of Mrs De Vries, then I am still pumping it up. I would add that the Dutch Ministry of Education does not send in the Dutch system, perhaps even to its own sadness, or can not see where exactly which school buys some of that money. So I will have to understand from the Ministers of Education how they intend to do that. That's why I'm making a small pass on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u116	Still, at the point of undermining. I was actually trying to get some clarity on the amount that is now available. I understand that a structural decision is taking place in the spring. Is this the outcome of a number of considerations as indicated by the Minister in his triangle of society, public debt and burden relief? Or is this what is needed in the short term and what is also seen as determining structural expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u117	Look, there's no colleague in the cabinet who says, "Would you like some more?" Says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At least I haven't come across that style figure yet. This has been looked at and indicated by the Justice and Security Ministers, which is both sensible and necessary in order to really do something in the next two years at least. See also some of the extra spending since that terrible murder in September of this year and what is already being done, for example in the area of extra security. Looking through that lens this really seems like a very sensible package. But of course you don't want to say in two years' time: now the money is gone; now we stop tackling undermining again. That's where he's getting his wish to make this structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u118	Then I understand that the outcome is just a little bit more than a random amount, but that there really has been a look at what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u119	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u120	In the spring it will therefore be necessary to see if more is needed or if you can scale it down. It would be very nice if organised crime were to leave the Netherlands. But I understand that a further step will then be taken to see what is still needed in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u121	Absolutely. It's actually already read from the in=out, which I haven't filled out. If I wanted to close it, I would have had to deduct half a billion from the money I have spent on other subjects. Again, I understand very well that some say it should have been more on a subject, but we have really looked at what is reasonable towards the field and the political wishes on at least three, three and a half, four and a half major themes and what we come to. I thought then: then the risk of half a billion dollars is acceptable, given the plausibility of what I hear from my officials about what else is coming in. Mrs De Vries also asked about stolen funds. She is right that it is fluctuating and that it is especially recent down. Taking away criminal assets is an absolute priority for the cabinet. She'll agree with me. As regards the use of extra revenue in a packing fund, I would like to point out that the government has included in the government agreement that the collections are no longer specifically processed but general. Because the discussion with the Justice Department has sometimes been that they have a certain amount of revenue and that if they do not have that revenue, they will then have to pay with their budget. In this respect, we have taken different political steps over the last ten years. Furthermore, I've done everything in the security category, except for the subject of Defense. Mr Alkaya asked about the way in which the cabinet provides higher structural expenditure to, for example, Defence. Good to hear about the DOD, too. We take stock of the windfalls and setbacks in each decision-making round and then see what is possible. We have also looked very explicitly at defence in the last spring round. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about the AIVD and the STUDY: can this please be spent on operational capacity? I have heard that question very well, but I do feel placed before the dilemma she referred to herself. I have limited knowledge of it, but I cannot say too much about it in public either. The aim of the services is to ensure that these resources are used in 2019. They also indicated that this would probably not be complete, but that, in the case of the STUDY, they would go through the unlimited end-of-year margin to 2020. So it's not made up. I just can't tell you where the money is going anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u122	When you hear the minister, it looks like I've been chanting for more defense expenses. My question was a different one after all. It seems that there are occasional resources going to the Defense Department and that they are being used for structural matters, such as software licences and the replenishment of stocks. On the contrary, I would like to avoid the occasional increase in money being made to Defence because it is now being used to undertake multiannual commitments. I ask the Minister if he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u123	I hear I counted myself rich too early. At least, let me speak for the Minister of Defence: they would have been so excited, had the SP Group here come to the understanding that more money for Defence is actually sensible. No, look, of course, we always have this problem, and I will not deny that there are colleagues in the cabinet. I honestly think that it applies to almost all colleagues in the cabinet who think: occasional money is a good start, but we are going to try to make it structural. Nor can I deny them that desire given their responsibilities. I can justify and understand that. In fact, the Prime Minister is the only one who is structurally avoiding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u124	Let me make the appeal to the Ministry of Defence to be extra strict on these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u125	So won, so crowned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u126	The Minister says a number of things about the AIVD and STUDY. I have already said in my speech that I understand that he cannot say everything. But wonderfully, in the Navy's note, it is very clearly stated what it is being used for, namely for a number of internal processes. I think that the Navy's note is about money for other things. So I hope that the Minister can clearly confirm that it can also be used for this purpose and not just for internal processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u127	Then I really have to go back to the person in charge, because the piece where I really look the least in the kitchen is the part where it is about the more operational side of security considerations, domestic and foreign. So I'd like to deal with that question, but I can't answer it right now. I'd like to see if I can add anything to that in the second term, but when it comes to STUDY I think I'll have to refer it to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u128	I think that's kind of weird. Because we have already asked questions about this in the actual round of questions. The answers to these questions refer again to operational matters, so I must honestly say that I can no longer rhyme with them. I do know what the political intention of the use of these resources has been, namely operational deployment and the fight against terrorism. In my view, this is not so terribly secret that the Minister cannot simply confirm it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u129	For the record, I can mention the labels anyway. But let me come back to Mrs De Vries' question in the second term, and to what extent there might be a discrepancy between the texts here in the Navy's note and the statements and wishes as they have been formulated politically. My impression is not, but let me see if I can clear that up. What I mean is that I have no insight into what, for example, lies under the counter-terrorism line item. I'm not supposed to have any insight into that either. But let me check that in second term. Which brings me to a short next block, the revenue. I have already tried to deal with Mr Van Otterloo. Mrs De Vries and others have spoken more often about care premiums. We discussed earlier that it would be good if the study group that is going on should also hear the wish of the Chamber to see what we can do about this system. I would like to do that, but I cannot change that in the short term. Mr Slootweg asked about the adjustment to the environmental base. This estimate adjustment shall be based on cash revenue up to and including October. They were somewhat disappointing, and that in turn leads to an estimate adjustment. Mr Slootweg also asked about implementation in relation to the EUR 50 million estimate adjustment and whether the ADR had started an investigation. Mr Slootweg is right. That estimate of inheritance and gift has been adjusted upwards by 50 million. You'd say that's good news. This is a new estimate based on the cash revenue until October of this year. However, I would like to stress that this adjustment of estimates can also be linked to macroeconomic developments. Things are worth more and therefore yield a higher tax return. That was the block of income. Then I have, at least briefly before this debate, the purchasing power. Mr Van Dijck asked about the marginal pressure. We really believe that the package of current tax measures and tax plans discussed here contributes to a balanced distribution of income. To be honest, there are not so many easy ways of reducing marginal pressure. I think we've all struggled with that dilemma. We therefore consider this to be an acceptable situation. Mr Van Dijck asked: where is the increase in purchasing power? The planning agency estimated an increase in purchasing power of one percent in 2019 and 2.1% in 2020. But I repeat what I have said before: this is a prediction from our independent mathematician, not a promise. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about burdens that increase in local authorities and how this is reflected in the figures. The ICI and the waterboard tax are part of the inflation figures in the purchasing power estimates used each year. In this case, it is still important to mention that the level of local burdens such as the IZB and the waterboard tax fall within the mandate of the municipalities and the waterboards. How this may then differ for the citizen in municipality one versus the citizen in municipality two is complicated and cannot be in those figures from the planning office. I've discussed that with the Chamber before. So it is taken away, but of course it can be better if you live in a municipality where the ozb is lower and vice versa. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about monitoring inflation, care premiums and the burden. These are all included in purchasing power estimates and inflation also takes into account developments such as the energy account. We'll weigh that up in August. Every time we try to achieve a balanced and politically acceptable distribution of income. So we just did that in August. But here again I say that we cannot guarantee these purchasing power realities. I think I'm through this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u130	Now, I thought, budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u131	Yes. Let me make a few general comments on this first. I would really like to say to Mr Nijboer: I hope that the Members of this Chamber will recognize that, how seriously I take the right to information of the Chamber, how I try to provide the Chamber with accurate and transparent information and how I try to carry out all the things that fit state law really con amore. That is not only because I consider this to be very important, but it is also because it is supposed to be a matter of state law. There has been a lot of discussion earlier on about that budget right and that particular case. We have, of course, had a real dilemma there as a cabinet. I understand that those who read the newspaper ask: how exactly did that turn out? Exactly as I've described before. Those notes from officials referred to are, of course, the starting point for the discussion. In this case, civil servants in themselves quite rightly say: if you look at the Compatibility Act in this case, but also, for example, in previous purchases from a bank, you see that you end up in a tension field with the Compatibility Act. That is not to say that it is per se unlawful, but that it could be unlawful. Then there will be a whole discussion and a lot of jigsaw puzzles going on at the Ministry of Finance. If that is the case, if that is the main rule, then how are you going to proceed in order to satisfy, for example, the Parliament's right of information as best as possible? How are you supposed to do with informing the Chamber? Because that is one of the things that, of course, are all the more important when you do something that is potentially illegal in terms of budget law. Again, what's illegal about that Compliance Act? That's every major issue you do before you get that from the States General. That's the main rule. Moreover, the Compatibility Act also recognizes exactly this tension, in the law itself and also in the explanatory memorandum, and ultimately it is up to the ADR and the Court of Auditors to assess it. So I would really like to say to Mr Nijboer that we have tried very hard to do so as neatly as possible. It is true that, of course, all kinds of risks have been pointed out by officials, and that was absolutely right. By the way, there were others who said: we think those risks are not that bad. The discussion on Finance then focused on how to mitigate these risks in a reasonable manner. How do you deal with conflicting jurisdictions? How are you supposed to deal with the fact that it has all kinds of effects when you publish it all in front? After all, you do not want to end up in a situation with insider trading, and get caught up in it. Besides the Dutch jurisdiction, there was also a French jurisdiction, with separate supervisors. So I can only say that we have really weighed it very carefully, myself, as a cabinet and also as a civil servant. I am highly recommended for the opinion of the Council of State and I would very much like to talk to the Chamber about the information protocol, but we really did this to the best of our consciences, and I think really carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u132	The Minister says: it is in principle unlawful and the opinion on it is up to the National Audit Service and/or the Court of Auditors. I have just seen that the Court of Auditors has announced an inquiry into this, so we look forward to that. My question to the Minister was whether the officials have said to him, as is on the front pages of NRC and Volkskrant today: Minister, this is illegal; you should not do it. And did he take that advice aside or did he not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u133	I have just tried to indicate that, and also in the letter from earlier this week. What is of course said by officials is: in the main route of the Compliance Act, a prior publication is potentially unlawful. I do not know exactly what article of the Compatibility Act it is, but it is at odds with the main rule, namely that you ask for prior approval for a large issue. That doesn't mean you can't do that. It has not been said either that you would not be able to deal with this in a good way, because there is also an emergency-breaking legal logic for this kind of thing. Mr Nijboer has also dealt with this before, namely throughout the debate on the banks. I am therefore quite right to point out that it is wrong here; pay attention! Then it's the question of how you deal with it. Because what is even more important is how I proceed to inform the Chamber and, by the way, to inform the other members of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u134	I've been critical of this before. I do not think everything is equally important, for example that the meeting was at the Ministry and not in the Chamber and that we should turn in the phones, when that is not necessary, if it is told in confidence. That's not good and not so careful, but I don't think that's a nuclear criticism. What I do think is a key criticism is that we were not allowed to speak to the group chairmen either, and that it was not the Chamber that determined which Members of Parliament were present, but the Minister. He has an interest and the Chamber is an institution in itself. It has therefore been stipulated in the past that the Registrar should always be there to ensure the independence and constitutional status of the Chamber. The Minister states in his letter that he did not invite the Registrar and did not involve him because no minutes had to be made. That really is a misconception of the Chamber's position, of the right to information and of the Court's budget in such exceptional situations. Does the Minister acknowledge that, or does he stick to the letter he sent this week and say: there was no need for minutes, so the clerk wasn't needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u135	I am really trying to outline the dilemma for Mr Nijboer. I can add that we have been going through all kinds of variants. We also considered whether it should be the committee secretly. The disadvantage of this is that not all groups are represented in it. We have looked at the variant of the group chairmen. That is complicated, because they might want to ask questions to their financial spokesmen. We've talked to a lawyer who's very gifted in this type of arrangement, and we've also asked the state attorney for advice. We did that because on the one hand we got the very explicit advice from the lawyer who gave it in M&A that it had to be discussed in very small circles; very small, because it is very sensitive. He also said: know what you are doing, also given the two jurisdictions and what could go wrong. The other side that we wanted to weigh very heavily and on which we asked the lawyer for advice is about "as small as possible." That is a huge challenge to sharing information with Parliament on the front. We have tried to weigh this up as best we can. I do not mean this at all reproaching, but I do think it would help if we could agree on that information protocol, because that would give us more clarity. The moment I found out that that information protocol had not been established, I could no longer ask the Chamber to do so. I would like to add one more thing. In this case, we were able to acquire the shares we wanted in a relatively short time. That went well in the sense that after that everything only came out and became known. That is different with the members of the Finance Committee, because they were invited. That's why the transaction went well. We really had to take into account a scenario in which, after buying for example 2% or 3%, the whole thing would have been on the street. I think I would have been rightly blamed by the Chamber: it was a very large group and now it has gone wrong. We are now dealing with the fried pears, which are at a higher rate, with a company where uncertainty has increased considerably and with all kinds of other repercussions. So these things have really had to weigh very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u136	The Minister has weighed this with the lawyers, the state attorney and everything, but the Court's budget law is a right enshrined in the Constitution. And then such a thought about the committee secretly: there are group chairmen in there and it is about terrorist attacks. It just doesn't make any sense to consider that. I'm very keen on that. The argument was that it could take a long time. I've been at SNS REAAL myself and a report has been made of it. There were nine months or maybe more than a year in between. There were shareholders back then, too. If that leaked out, that bank would fall over. Then you had a bank run and hit the entire Dutch financial system. That's a bit different than buying a few shares of an airline too expensive. So the impact there was much greater, but we did have those seven procedural safeguards that are now critical of in the analysis made by the Chamber Support. In this case, we could not discuss it with the group chairman. We also need to find something when it comes out. We weren't supposed to talk about it. The Registrar did not determine who was invited from the Chamber, but the Minister, who had an interest. That's just not good under state law. I understand that the Minister has done his best, but I do not understand why he does not acknowledge that mistakes have been made and that he should have done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u137	I'm going to repeat part of what I just said. It is obvious that such an issue always puts you at odds with the Compliance Act. Moreover, the Compatibility Act and the explanatory memorandum to the Compatibility Act provide for this. For the record, the case law referred to by Mr Nijboer was also at odds with the budget law of the Chamber in exactly the same way. What then weighs extra heavy is the obligation to inform the Chamber. In each of these editions, the song starts with it and officials are supposed to say: listen, know what you are doing, because this is potentially illegal. Then there are solutions to be found and there are ways to proceed with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u138	The Minister says about this whole case just now: need breaks the law. Earlier, for example in his letter, he made statements which I sum up as: the end justifies the means. He then pointed out that the Chamber had ultimately supported him in the goal. But does he recognize that I really think it is an important statement by the Minister that the objective should not really matter? For example, the Animal Party voted against. They didn't agree with the purpose. They have not had the opportunity to debate with other parties in advance and perhaps convince those other parties that this would not have been a good thing. That's their right, isn't it? I do not rule out the fact that next time I do not agree with the objective. So that should not be a matter for the Minister at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u139	I have generally said that the Compatibility Act provides for the possibility of an emergency-breaking law scenario. I wanted to point out to Mr Nijboer just how heavy all the duties I have towards the Chamber, including budget law, are for me. There is no misunderstanding about that. But not for nothing does the Compatibility Act, also in the explanatory memorandum, provide for a scenario in which a cabinet still thinks it should make the choice and makes a purchase before a law has been passed by the States General. Then the disclosure obligation is extra heavy. We've really adjusted that and weighed it. We've explored all kinds of variants. We thought we had made a sensible assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u140	There is a difference of opinion on this balance, that is to say on whether it has been neat in view of this whole situation, for which there was no protocol. I agree with the Minister that there should be a protocol. That is also what I said in my contribution to the VAO of earlier today. Does the Minister agree with me that we should look back on this whole case as soon as possible? We should not talk about it in any margin of the Navy's note or other debates, as we have done before. We should talk about the whole process of who has exactly been informed and so on. We can use those insights in protocol. And so the Minister will also have the opportunity to properly account for all the choices that have been made throughout the process, i.e. not just a margin of the Navy's note, as we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u141	For the record, we also had an exchange of views on this in the debate on the purchase. That's when this really came out. I wrote an extensive letter to the Chamber earlier this week. I do not know if I can add much to that in a new debate, but that is up to the Chamber. The added value of a new debate, on any subject, is in the Chamber. If the Chamber finds that a ruler has to come, then the ruler comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u142	Nor do I find it very happy to have this debate now, but in the letter to which the Minister refers, and also in the debate this evening, he keeps saying that the officials have said that the potential is illegal. But the document that is being made public simply states: "The essence of budget law is that no expenditure should be underlined before Parliament has agreed to it. Purchasing without prior authorisation from the Chamber has been I don't know where that "potential" comes from in the official advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u143	Officials have pointed out to me that the final judgment of whether something is unlawful is not mine, but the Court of Auditors and the ADR. They must assess whether this was unlawful. They pointed out to me the possibility that this might be unlawful. To be honest, I find it somewhat unfortunate in part of the articles that we are looking at what happened at the very beginning of the process. And at the very beginning of the process, which I think is perfectly logical, is simply said by the excellent support given to the Ministry from the budgetary side: pay attention to the Compatibility Act, because you could later be accused of being unlawful. According to the main rule, expenses you make without the prior consent of the States-General are by definition slippery ice. Then there is a whole process in progress, with advice coming through from other parts of Finance. We can all imagine that those who have more to do with the thesauri say: there are other interests too, Minister, and make sure that you do not get into trouble with the kgi, and make sure that you do not make a huge blow by meeting the Chamber as well as possible, but let the whole deal fall apart before you even start halfway. This starts a long process of puzzles and searching for a path that we eventually thought of together, but for which I am of course responsible, that it was an acceptable route to take. We have, of course, weighed this very carefully, including in the cabinet. All kinds of variants have come along. It has to be, it should be, precisely because it is something that is so serious. I hope to have a reputation in the Chamber for doing it as closely and as carefully as possible towards the Chamber, wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u144	That price-raising argument already gives budgetary matters in this memo, so I understand that as a substantive argument. So I have to read the word 'potential' in this way: it is unlawful, but the final judgment is made by someone else and not by the Budget Directorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u145	And I didn't. But I think it's wise. Once again, I am a huge supporter of the free press, so I am never going to complain about what is in the press, but some of the articles are zooming in on the beginning of the journey in particular. Later, of course, these things were also adjusted and weighed with external lawyers. Mr Nijboer is critical of it, but it is ultimately up to the Chamber to judge whether we have done it very carefully, whether we have done it carefully, or whether there are things that should be different in the future. That is the way we have had to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u146	That is indeed the sequel. In Monday's letter, the Minister writes that the Chamber does not receive those external opinions, nor is it confidential for inspection. That's why that part of the trade-off is so hard to follow. Then what was the advisory role there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u147	The resignation of the Secretary of State for Finance has, of course, had a lot of discussions with the Chamber on Article 68. He has explicitly indicated how that works. There will soon be an AO with the Minister of the Interior, but for the record: these talks with external lawyers are of course endlessly puzzled. What does it mean? What are the risks? What are the considerations? In the end, I'm responsible for the whole palette of considerations. I'm getting a lot of information. I'm stimulating contradiction at the Ministry very much. I actively ask people: what if things do go wrong, what if I'm wrong, is there another opinion? That's what I have to do at my table. Quite frankly, in almost every case of any importance being discussed at my table at the Ministry of Finance, there is, if you wobt well enough, an opposing opinion. In any case, therefore, something can always be found that shows that the Minister has ignored an official opinion. I do not like that word either, because it is a consideration that I make on the basis of all interests. In addition, I then went to the cabinet with that consideration, which we have also played very strongly on. I therefore believe that this balance of interests is up to me, and that then it is up to the Chamber to judge that balance of interests. But that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u148	I think that at least this case will be discussed a number of times. I also asked the Minister about budget law in relation to Energy Management Netherlands, EBN. There was chosen to supplement equity and reduce the profit distribution to the Empire. This is also about EUR 450 million, not a small amount. I am curious about the Minister's view of how that relates to budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u149	Mr President, the honest answer is that I just hadn't gotten to it yet. I started this block, and while I was doing it, I lost a leaf. I hope that magazine is in "other" and, if not, I'll get back to you as soon as possible. I found it, Mr. Chairman! For the record, there has been no provision of own funds from the state budget here. That is why, just for a sec, there was no need to go through Mrs De Vries' comment on "Failure to comply'. I do understand the inconvenience of the Chamber and I also understand that the Chamber would like to be informed about this. The Minister of EZK, who deals with this particular case, will inform the Chamber in 2020 about the financial arrangements that will be made between the State and EBN. But I can't fix it retroactively. It really is a different case, though I also like to take the criticism to me here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u150	That answer was already contained in the answer to the factual questions. My question was mainly about how we are going to do this in the future. It is EUR 450 million and I find it very unsatisfactory to hear: we are doing this in the Autumn note and in 2020, three or four months later, you will be told how it went. I don't understand why this couldn't just be shared with the Chamber in advance. You could also have made another choice as a Lower House, because ultimately the Chamber has the budget right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u151	No own funds were provided here from the State budget. There it is... But, Chairman, that's... We have just finished the AO and the VAO State participations and here we are talking about something that the Minister of EZK is specifically responsible for. I had this checked legally, and so there was no need to go through the preliminaries procedure as described in the Compatibility Act. What I really want to promise Mrs De Vries is that I will look at this again. Then how could you fix this? But I do understand why Minister Wiebes has followed this route and why this has been the conclusion. Mrs De Vries then says: it is about a lot of money and can we not even see whether this should be changed in the future? I'd like to be willing to do that, but it's just a slightly different case than that case I've just tried to say a lot about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u152	Just one more minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u153	I understand that the case is different and I also understand that it is so regulated in the Compatibility Act, but we are also here to see if it is desirable that it should be done this way. You may say that it is not giving money to a company, but it is true that the company gives less money to the Empire. Eventually it is still net 450 million that would otherwise have been with the Empire. I therefore find it very unsatisfactory that we should not be informed of this in advance in the context of budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u154	I'd like to say I'll see if there's another way we can do that. But, yes, in that first case, I was accused of possibly not complying with the Compatibility Act and here is the accusation that I have kept to too much of the Compatability Act. I would be happy to proceed with this case, and I would therefore like to say to Mrs De Vries that I will return to that after consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u155	Mrs De Vries does not blame the Minister for being too compliant with the Compatability Act; that would be crazy. Mrs De Vries simply says: almost 0.5 billion goes out. We have budget law as a Chamber and it will not be possible formally, but it would be good if the Chamber were to be informed. It's also about energy. I'm sure the PVV would get in the way, because he doesn't agree. Others might agree. The Chamber wants to get into that. That is a very reasonable request from Mrs De Vries, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u156	Sure. That is why I have also said that I am happy to see if we can do it differently. We checked. What are you supposed to do on the basis of the Compatibility Act? Mr Nijboer will understand that I must also refer to that. Then I say to Mrs De Vries: I understand very well that this is about big money and that the Chamber has an opinion on it. I'd like to see how I can fix that. Maybe you should even think about what that means in the Compatibility Act, but that's all verse two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u157	In the first case, KLM, we have a discussion about legality and that the information and budget law of the Chamber has not been sufficiently respected. I disagree with the Minister. We disagree on this and we will not get out of it tonight. We have no difference of opinion here whether it should be, but whether it is desirable. I think that Mrs De Vries is right that, even though it is not mandatory, it is good to inform the Chamber about such matters and to agree with them. I very much agree with Mrs De Vries, and I believe that Mr Sneller also said something about it, that we should not do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u158	I understand that very well from the Chamber. It's also about big money. I began by saying to Mrs De Vries that I would like to look at that. I just don't have a ready-made solution for that right now. If I could get a little more time for that, that would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u159	Just a little bit to finish your term, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u160	I've arrived at the other block. I shall begin with Mr Sneller's question on SHBB. The smile on my face had nothing to do with Mr Sneller's statement of that abbreviation, because I could not do better. His question was about the possibility of receiving advice. I want to look at it, but I do have to make a reservation because I suspect that there is also a lot of confidential information and confidential data, names of interested parties and-and-and-and-and-so. I do not know what can and can be done at all, but I would like to look at it and then come back to Mr Sneller. Mr. Sneller was still trying to make the calculation. I was impressed by how many things he seemed to do at least partly out of his mind. I've been surprised myself before when I was reading the note to myself, about how relatively high the interest charges were and what it all cost. My first tendency was to think that wouldn't be right. It turned out to be right. What remains is that the expected return on that settlement is 411 million and that the balance of expenditure and revenue is indeed 2.9 billion. So you have to call that a loss, and that was the result of this wise choice at the time, I think everyone agrees with that, because it was choosing between two evils. Mr Slootweg asked if I would be prepared to make an overview of the burden development, even after this cabinet period. I think that is reflected in the medium-term estimate of the CPB. This includes the collective burden per year until 2025. We expect it to reach 38.5 in 2025, with it still being 39.2 in 2019. Could I agree with Mr Slootweg that if more information is needed than what is in the numbers of the planning agency, I will inform him about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u161	I would also like to know explicitly what categories that is in. The minister says 38.5 and 39.2. It's just that it's often in those cases that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u162	More specifically, I understand from Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u163	Yeah, if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u164	Then I'm gonna write a letter about that. Mr Van Otterloo asked about technological innovation. He asks why there is only one movement, namely a less significant technological innovation. That is how I thought I understood his question, but I do not see him in the room to nod at me or not. What's it because of and why is it running backwards? Because there has been a gradual decline in productivity in the Netherlands in recent years. Productivity is always a bit elusive, but very important. There are all kinds of discussions about the structural reasons behind this. It has been one of the reasons for Minister Wiebes to come up with this letter of growth. Mr Van Otterloo also asked about the Volksbank. Mr Sneller also asked about it. For the record, I did not mean to say that I do not have an opinion on it, but that I am not at the beginning of the journey. I wasn't the one who asked: wouldn't you even give me a superdividend? At the end of the song the question comes to my table, but I find it complicated to say, after all sorts of considerations have been made, that things have to be different. Then Mr Van Otterloo asked for a plan to deal with the rest of the debt in case of a refund-free mortgage. The sector itself is very busy with redemption joy. I think I have already promised the Chamber that I will report regularly. This is standard part of consultations that my officials and I conduct with the banks and the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. I agree with Mr Van Otterloo that it is very important to keep that on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u165	I think the people in trouble also want to have a dot on the horizon, as they call it nowadays, to know how to solve the problem. It is very good that the Minister is consulting with the sector, but we would like to have some more information to people on what this consultation with the sector is about. Now the signs are that it is very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u166	I welcome the fact that the banking sector is taking this up and is trying to avoid a future, potentially major problem. I would like to stress that there is also a responsibility for the people themselves. It concerns adults who have themselves entered into a debt-free mortgage. On the one hand I understand very well that you will forget that and that you will consider it one of the normal things of life. However, however much there is a responsibility for society and for the cabinet, there is also a real responsibility for people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u167	It is true that there is a responsibility for the people themselves, but we also have a responsibility for continuity, because we have changed the rules on mortgages. This means that there are now people at the end who could not know 25 or 30 years ago that there was a limit to the number of years in which that mortgage interest rate was deductible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u168	I understand. That's exactly why I'm motivated to see if we can solve those problems before they come into full force. Then I have one more bigger topic, the City and the Province Fund. I understand the various questions very well. I believe that almost all the members of the Chamber have asked for it, as far as it is here. There is semi-continuous consultation with municipalities and provinces on this issue. A letter was sent today by Prime Minister Knops, who mentioned a number of solutions offered to municipalities and provinces. This is mainly about the municipalities. I believe it's a five-stage missile. No, it's a four-stage missile from the cabinet and municipalities actually say: we want the fifth. The fifth is, can't we just step up? As much as I understand it, given the problems that we all hear of course from municipalities and provinces, I think it is real to say that we have agreed on a step-by-step approach. We have to stick to that. As a cabinet, we offered to freeze it. We've offered to cash-slide. We offered a few more things. That's not what the mood is for. In any case, there is a feeling on the part of the municipalities that this is not enough. I find it really complicated to go through that now and try to arrange something else while the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in conversation and has offered to do so. I would like to say that we have had a very specific eye for one of the major problems in municipalities and provinces, namely youth care. The last spring note we made available hundreds of millions for '20s, '21s and '22s. That involved amounts in the order of 400 million and going down to about 300 million. I believe the first one in the sky was 420 million. In doing so, we wanted to ensure that we do something extra here at least for a long time. Is that enough? At least that is not the experience of many municipalities. To be honest, I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also his predecessor really did their best, also in consultation at the Tower with the Prime Minister and the VNG, to respond to the concerns. It is not for nothing that the cabinet, with very broad support from the Chamber, has spent extra money on youth care in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u169	Is this the total block about municipalities and provinces? I also have a few other small questions. Perhaps I should ask them at once when the Minister is ready, but if this is his answer, then I still have a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u170	I think I really gave the main lines of the answer. Why don't I finish the block? Then I'll do the other questions in the other category as well. Perhaps then I will come across a few things in the area of the municipalities. Mr Slootweg asked about the food bank. That is, of course, a very relevant subject, but I would like to refer to SZW for that. I am going to study what others are getting out of this particular European pot. There are other countries that make a lot of money and the Netherlands does not, is my observation. Is there anything you can do about that? For the full answer I would like to refer to SZW. Mr Nijboer asked about youth care. I think I answered that question. Mr Slootweg asked about the negative interest rate. I've really tried to talk intensively to the banks. I am pleased that the four largest banks have said that they do not see the route of negative interest rates, at least not below €100,000. I'm gonna keep monitoring these developments. It is not for nothing that I indicated in that letter that I find it so undesirable that, if that were necessary, I would consider legislation in the future. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Alkaya said that too little is being done to pay the social debt. He asked what the cabinet does. I think I have said a lot about this, including the importance of building buffers. I think I have answered the question about the Volksbank. What I would like to say, however, is that Mr Nijboer and Mr Sneller asked for it to be possible to put the logic of this type of benefit on paper at all, because it may well be that it will happen again. I understood the questions of the Chamber. I think I had just answered the first short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u171	And I also understand very well that the Minister says: if the initiative was not taken by me, I also fit some sort of marginal test. But if you're so close to the minimum leverage ratio, I'd like to hear in the letter how that fits into that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u172	That is exactly what I understood from Sneller and Mr Nijboer. So let me do a little more justice to the subject than just the sweeping law. Hopefully, I had already clarified my role in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u173	Then we're here, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u174	Yes, I mentioned the hundreds of millions extra for youth care, and I also talked about the kick-on-strap-afsystematiek. Mr Slootweg now looks as if I have left him, but that was not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u175	First of all, I would like to come back to the food banks. The Minister refers me to the Minister for Social Affairs. But the reason I mention this in the Navy's note is that in the recovery action on the Children's Budget Act, which is specifically aimed at a group of families, it has been said that this action cannot be perfected. I see there's money in Europe. Then I think it makes sense that you should just see if you can do something with co-financing, because municipalities already give money to food banks. I think it is a little unsatisfactory to hear that I should actually go to the Minister for Social Affairs for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u176	It's a rather unusual style figure to ask another question, but I'm kind of wondering how to fix this. Because first of all, he's going over it. Secondly, I see the problem and I also see the possibility of those jars, but I can't get into those jars in the short term, if I wanted to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u177	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u178	It would help for me if there really was an investigation into how we could use that jar. Because I find it strange that Belgium uses 88 million out of it, France uses 500 million out of it and the Netherlands uses zero. Then I think "tha..." especially when I see where that money would end up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u179	But let me promise that immediately, because the gap between what others get out of it and what we do is so big that you at least wonder what we could buy from it. So I would like to pledge that to Mr Slootweg. But that is specifically about the European fund. The broader problem of the food banks really belongs to SZW's colleague. So if I could agree with Mr Slootweg in this way, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u180	Rounding up. Short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u181	Fair enough. Let's talk about the municipalities. In my opinion, I was given a rather technical analysis of the possibilities that exist. I understand that you want to get out of this together with the VNG, and I think that is quite right. But I think you should also have a goal moment, a moment when you really want to give that stabilisation a place. I think the Spring Note is the time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u183	That seems like a clear moment to me. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u184	There is one more thing that I have not appointed, but which has been shared with the Chamber before and which has also been discussed extensively by me and, in my view, by other directors. That's about the stair-on-strap-offsystematiek. It seemed a good idea for a long time and has also worked quite well; quite frankly, municipalities and provinces were also quite satisfied with the conclusion of the government agreement. But there is still a lot of discussion about this system. In my view, an investigation has already been promised, and we really must do so, on how to proceed with this system. Because, of course, I can see that we should not have this discussion every three months for the next ten years. Those problems are there; we are all addressed by city council members and aldermen. And I also understand that the Minister of the Interior says that agreements have been made, that we offer four things, but that they want the fifth. That's a little complicated for him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u185	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u186	Mr. Chairman. I thought I straightened out all eight blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u187	Yeah, we counted. Is there a need for a second term? Of course it doesn't have to; it's not an obligation. First of all, I am looking at Mr Van Dijck. Perhaps we can do this term of the Chamber without interruptions; it is a small suggestion. I have Mr Nijboer on my side, I see. Thank you for your support. You all have one third of your first-term speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u188	Mr President, in view of the clock, I shall be brief with one motion. This is about the fact that far too little is being done about the PVV. The Minister cannot explain to me why, with that 11 billion in budget surplus, he is paying off the government debt without any plausible reason. Even DNB says there's no reason to settle the debt further at this time, but still he does it, three years in a row. So 33 billion in public debt has been repaid with budgetary surpluses, while budget surpluses are still too much of a collection of taxpayers' money in our view. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the VAT increase on groceries, reduce rents and eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u189	Mr President, thank you. I have to say quite frankly that the Minister's answers sometimes shave a bit. It's kind of like it's not about it and it doesn't like it. He's moving it to someone else. I find that a little difficult sometimes, especially when it comes to the assassins of purchasing power, as we have called them. Of course, I know it's in inflation, but the question is how do you monitor this and what you're going to do with it in the end? Nor can I imagine the Minister saying that he would in no way be able to do anything about the effects on the purchasing power of all kinds of things that we are not dealing with directly. The minister says he's talking to the municipalities. Then you can also talk about for example the ozb. That question hasn't been answered yet. My second point concerns efficiency and effectiveness. I would really like the Minister to show more decisiveness in terms of efficiency and effectiveness of resources. It is very difficult for us to steer because we do not know what that extra money will be for education and what we will achieve with these extra natural resources. I would like a reflection from the Minister on that. What exactly is he going to do to ensure that we have that comfort that money is well spent? Because in the end, it's all tax money we're putting in. I hope I get a good answer about the AIVD and the STUDY. My idea in the case of budget law with regard to EBN, Energy Management Netherlands, was not so much that there was work outside the Compatibility Act. However, as Mr Nijboer said, we may have to look at the compatibility law if the House of Representatives does not have to give prior approval for this type of sum, which we believe would have been possible. I think that is a very important one, because I think that budget law is one of the most important instruments of the House of Representatives alongside information law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u190	Thank you. Mr Snels van GroenLinks waived his speaking time. We appreciate that very much. Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to follow your instructions. I have about the same feeling as Mrs De Vries: a lot is hit, but sometimes a lot is shaved along. The Minister is going to see what is going on with this European fund. I really hope that he will also use that research to see if the municipal contributions are to be used to co-finance the six largest municipalities, for example, some 8 tonnes of contributions to the food banks. Then you could have a multiplier effect of six. I think that is very welcome, especially during this Christmas period. I have one motion and it's about the municipalities. I think it's all just a little bit sharper. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities may face financial difficulties and that the year-on-year acceleration of accres development is a factor in this;]] [[noting that the growth of the accres has slowed down due to the fact that government spending on infrastructure and defence has been pushed backwards over time;]] [[Whereas the government, in consultation with the VNG, has come up with a number of variants designed to dampen fluctuations in the accres;]] [[calls on the Government to make use of one of the variants examined for the first time in the Spring Paper 2020 by correcting the impact on the accres due to under-exhaustation in 2020, while maintaining the principle of multi-annual budget neutrality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u192	Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the tabling of two motions, first of all a question which I consider important for the discussion at tomorrow's procedural meeting on the purchase of KLM shares. Does the Minister say here: yes, I have violated the Court's budget law and I ask you to understand that? Or does the Minister dispute that he violated that budget law? I would like a clear answer to that, so that we can proceed with that tomorrow in the procedural meeting. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many parents in the supplementing affair are already out of date and that the Tax Office advises parents to remove the limitation period through the court;]] [[Considers that this unfair limitation period should not play a role in the re-evaluation of damaged parents;]] [[further considers that a new course of justice should be spared for the injured parents;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the limitation period for child care allowances unduly recovered is not an obstacle to remedying the suffering suffered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a large shortage of affordable and good rentals;]] [[Whereas the landlord's tax is a brake on both the growth in the number of affordable rentals and the maintenance and sustainability of existing social housing;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal to allow corporations to deduct from the landlord's tax the full amount they invest in the new construction of social housing or the maintenance or sustainability of existing social housing, at the latest in the Millions Note 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-5]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, I had two main themes in my contribution, first of all the enormous surpluses in the budget, the planned 21.7 billion in additional expenditure compared to what has now been provided by the cabinet over the period of office and the major needs in education, care and housing, which, in any case, the cabinet is doing too little structuralally in the opinion of the PvdA Group, and in particular the position of the municipalities, which are now suffering a great deal from them in the short term. That judgment has not changed in this debate, but I honestly did not expect that either. The second major theme is the information position of the Chamber and budget law. Mrs De Vries raised the issue of EBN investments. I very much agree with her. We should be more vigilant as a Chamber, but I also think that the Minister should respect more the budget law that the Chamber has. With regard to KLM, we are going to speak much further, because there is no doubt that there will be a plenary debate or a general discussion. The Court of Auditors has launched an investigation. I am not convinced by the Minister's answers, nor by the letter he sent this week on the position of the Registrar, on who should be present and on the time limit. The confidence position of the Chamber and also our position if we were to leak out of state secrets are immense. That hasn't happened before to my knowledge. The punishments don't lie either, so that's what the minister should just rely on. He shouldn't be following corporate lawyers doing an analysis. The Court's budget law and fundamental rights are really too heavy for that. I'm on a motion on Groningen. A civil-law agreement has been concluded with an immense impact. We have been briefed by the parliamentary lawyer at the request of the PvdA Group, but supported by the entire Committee on Economic Affairs. He made the suggestion to the Chamber to initiate a preliminary procedure. That's what this motion says. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Committee on Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has asked the Parliamentary Advocate and the Registry to carry out an analysis of the Court's budget law in relation to additional agreements on the agreement with Shell and ExxonMobil;]] [[Whereas it established the option of establishing the parliamentary approval requirement by means of a pending procedure before agreements become final;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the addendum to the agreement the basic condition of parliamentary approval of the final fee to Shell and ExxonMobil and to submit the final addendum to the Chamber in the pending procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van Raan and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u194	You see, Mr President, I am fighting for budget law, and I will continue to do so in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u195	Thank you. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u196	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. Now his answers to the discount rate were shorter than the one question I asked and the consideration I gave them. As a follow-up to my reflections on the sustainability study and assumptions on discount rates and economic growth, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB has recently issued the Ageing Study Concerns for tomorrow;]] [[Whereas this study, together with other studies such as the MLT, is important input for the electoral programmes of political parties and for future policies;]] [[whereas according to this study there is a sustainability deficit of 1.6% of GDP;]] [[Whereas this estimate of the sustainability balance is very sensitive to the assumptions and forecasts made, as the CPB also recognises and makes clear with sensitivity analyses;]] [[whereas the CPB states that "if the discount rate is lower than economic growth, the sustainability balance is not informative as an indicator of sound public finances', but that such a scenario is not further explored in the sensitivity analysis;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a further analysis on the basis of several substantiated assumptions on discount rates and productivity growth, including scenarios showing an interest rate below the growth rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u197	I am tabling this motion in the hope that it will teach us more about what sensible macroeconomic policy is in these bizarre times of negative interest rates. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u198	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is to help the minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a serious legacy problem with respect to the redemption-free mortgages that need to be re-financed;]] [[Whereas this problem will become acute for those concerned in the coming years or years, especially if they are now retired;]] [[Whereas this legacy problem is a result of the adjustments to the mortgage interest rate deduction over the past two cabinet periods;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and categorise the target groups affected by this issue and to indicate which directions the Cabinet considers appropriate or acceptable and to inform the Court of Justice of this by 1 March 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u200	Well... That's legal... Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I haven't always thought of the terms used for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u201	I don't care if you're sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u202	Well, I have to say that I always think that you should avoid words like this as much as possible, but in this case it seemed like there was no other way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u203	Very good. Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u204	The second motion is important for all those 3 million pensioners. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Plan Bureau for the Environment charges a discount rate of 3.0% for climate investment;]] [[noting that the Central Planning Bureau charges a discount rate of 2,5% for shelf life calculations;]] [[Calls on the Government to increase the discount rate for pensions in the second pillar to the same level as the discount rate for the sustainability calculations of the Central Planning Office;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35350-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u205	The Minister has the floor. We have eight motions, three amendments and some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u206	Mr. Chairman. I just realized that I have the amendments... I'm about to repeat that word and then see if anyone can deliver the pieces to me, because I don't have them with me anymore. I'll do the second-term questions first. Let me say again to Mrs De Vries that I have tried very hard to tarnish the questions. I also wrote to it myself, and I had hoped to have answered them all as fully as possible. In addition, I would like to say to her that I think it is a good idea to talk to the municipalities about the ozb. That was a specific question from her. The second thing she asked me about was efficiency. I had an exchange of views with her colleague Van der Linde on this last week when it was about responsible budgeting. At that time, I promised him that it would be wise for me to take up his suggestion, that on a subject such as the autumn note, too, we should always take up the description of the purpose and what it is intended to do. So I hope that was in line with her remarks just now. I repeat that I pledge Mrs Aukje de Vries to return to EBN. I would just like to look at the box for the amendments, because the President rightly pointed out to me that I did not mention them. That's an omission on my part. Mr. Chairman. I repeat to Mr Slootweg that I would like to do this study, that research into European funds, because I really see that there is something to be done there for our potential, for this or similar problem. That is what I am saying, and I shall return to the Chamber in writing. Then I can also make an overview: who gets how much and how could the Netherlands benefit from this? Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about the use of these additional resources. In addition to the Year's Note, I can say that the funds are indeed used for operational purposes. Indeed, it says "internal policies, work processes and the establishment of technical systems to ensure in practice that the requirements of the Wiv 2017 are met," but we have had it checked explicitly and it is about operational purposes. More specific questions I will have to pass on to the relevant directors. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Alkaya. As far as budget law is concerned, I really have to refer to my first term, because I have tried to consider this issue very extensively, and also when assessing it. I would like to say the following to Mr Bruins. I had hoped that he would recognize that I agree with him on the discount issue and what that means. I can see that this has a great impact. So I can also see the relevance of his question. I will say a few words about his motion in a moment, but if he had the impression that my briefness said something about the importance of the subject, then that is a misunderstanding. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. The first motion, in part No. 3 belongs to Mr Van Dijck and Mr Wilders. This motion concerns the increase in VAT on messages, which must be reversed in the eyes of the applicants. It will disappoint Mr Van Dijck, but it will not surprise him that I am against this motion. There is no cover either, and the cabinet has moved a different direction during this cabinet period. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg's motion to item No. 4 is about the discussion about the acres, the municipalities and the under-exhaustment. I see the problem. I would also be inclined to leave the motion to the House's judgment, but I would like to highlight and highlight two more things. First of all, we're talking to the VNG. It takes two to tango, but ultimately, in that respect, it takes 400 to tango; or how many municipalities do we have today? The four things that the cabinet has put on the table have not only been enthusiastically received by the municipalities. So I would like to say this, but it is going to be quite a complicated style if the municipalities and the provinces then say that they do not want to have any of the four that Mr Slootweg is moderately enthusiastic about. I'd like to consider whether the municipalities want it in the end. That's what I was gonna name. The second thing I wanted to mention is that the motion is also based on budget neutrality. I can therefore leave the motion for a resolution Chamber, but I hope that Mr Slootweg agrees with me that it is complicated to push it down the throat of the municipalities if they still do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u207	I understand. There's also a time frame in it. Does the Minister have any idea how that timetable could be filled in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u208	I thought it was right that the question should be to try to put one of those four things in the spring note. That is why I did not comment on that part of the motion. I'm just pointing out the following. Suppose the circumstance would arise that the municipalities around that spring note say that they do not want all four things of the cabinet, then I think I should not interpret the motion in such a way that I do one of those four things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u209	No, okay, okay. No, I understand that, too. The VNG is an association. But at some point there will be clarity, finally in the conversation with the municipalities, whether this timetable to the Spring Note is real?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u210	Yeah, absolutely. I'll let the Chamber know about that. But to be honest, I think that is a real question. So I'm not hiking against the timeline that much. I hiccup against making the municipalities happy against their will. Mr President, that brings me to the third amendment, tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u211	The motion in part No. 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u212	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I can't always do two things at once. I had the amendments put on my chair. The motion in part No. Mr Alkaya and Mrs Leijten spoke about the suffering throughout the CAF system. I would very much like to take this issue seriously. I have just spoken with Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt with some of the parents. I would ask Mr Alkaya to hold on to this motion for a resolution for the moment, because the Donner Committee is yet to come. I might want to ask them about this. I don't want to overpromise here at any time. So I also want to have a legal check on what this means and what this is about. However much this dossier has my deep sympathy and how much I feel called upon to do the best I can to correct what has gone wrong, I would specifically ask Mr Alkaya to hold this motion. In doing so, he gives me the time to talk to Mr Donner, to wait for his next report and perhaps to give the new Secretary of State the opportunity to consider it. Because I can't see what the legal consequences are right now. I would therefore like to ask him for some leniency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u213	Yes, but I don't see much action with Mr. Alkaya. You don't have to. The motion will simply remain put forward, so I would like to have a ruling from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u214	Then I'll have to dissuade the motion for now. But I would really like to ask Mr Alkaya...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u215	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u216	Mr President, I would really like to ask Mr Alkaya that. Because the resigned Secretary of State has tried to do this as well as possible in terms of content and not to turn this into a political issue. He resigned today. I talked to the parents today. I said at the Ministry: I want us to do everything we can to make sure that those 300 parents get a payment. On this particular motion, I get the signal that it is wise to talk to Donner, and that it is wise to find out legally what it means and to do research. I would really like to appeal to Mr Alkaya's reasonableness to hold the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. But I don't want to discourage the motion. I want to be able to look at it with a positive basic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u217	It's a field of tension of reasonableness. Of course, I am reasonable when I try to move myself into the Minister's shoes, but I also try to move myself into the shoes of the parents, who have to deal with this situation again. I'm gonna go over this with the co-host. I think we're going to vote on it tomorrow afternoon. Until then, I can still hold the motion. But I heard what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u218	Very nice. The Secretary of State resigned less than half a day ago. I just got off the phone with those parents. I see the rush, but I think this is a really reasonable request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u219	The motion in part No. 6.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u220	The motion in part No. I regret to say that 6 by Mr Alkaya and Mrs Beckerman are not recommended, because there is no cover provided. I understand the intention of the proposers, but it also creates all kinds of other problems. In the motion in part No. In my opinion, Mr Nijboer is asking something he has asked Minister Wiebes before. Minister Wiebes has made it clear that it is really very complicated for him to ask for prior authorisation or to organise a suspension procedure. He has indicated before that he is offering a technical briefing. In my view, the Chamber has not yet finished discussing this matter with Minister Wiebes. I find it complicated to ride a bike through it. Nor do I find that courteous to a colleague from the cabinet. I must therefore discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u221	Mr. Nijboer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u222	This is kind of new, isn't it? It hasn't changed before. We had a confidential briefing this morning. The reason I did this with the Navy's Note is that it had to be different with the Final Act EZ, with probably also the financial spokesmen. All that would have to be planned. So I took it on for practical reasons today. It follows from an opinion of the parliamentary lawyer to the Chamber. The whole EZ committee has requested this. There was also quite a broad support for it. So it is not something I have often exchanged with Minister Wiebes. It's not a very unreasonable request. It is something new, based on the advice of the parliamentary lawyer on how budget law can be improved in these circumstances. So the Minister's argument is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u223	I am not in those debates, but my impression was that Mr Nijboer has often had an exchange of views with the cabinet in the person of the Minister of EZK on how to pay the bill on oils. They do not agree on all points, but I am side-by-side with Minister Wiebes and I really think that we have done so in a sensible and good way to the Chamber. Minister Wiebes said earlier that he would ask permission in advance and would find a pending procedure really complicated. I think I understand that he said that explicitly to the Chamber. I think Mr Nijboer can understand that I cannot say here: I will do it differently for Minister Wiebes. I don't think that makes any sense. The cabinet speaks with one mouth, so I really must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u224	I really did it for pragmatic reasons. Otherwise, I would need a separate plenary debate with the Minister, but it is the last Chamber week. Can I not ask if Minister Wiebes can explain his arguments again? This is not about the general agreement. It's about the advance; it comes from it. It's really very precise. Can he not send another letter for the votes on the basis of which he finds this? The Minister says: I am actually talking about a colleague. But as a parliament, we have worked out in detail what this is about in terms of budget law. Can't another letter be sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u225	I would like to put the question of writing a further letter to the Chamber to Minister Wiebes, but I do know, albeit remotely, the sensitivity of Minister Wiebes, whom I also understand very well. Again, there has been contact with the country's attorney, there has been refreshing and weighing, there has been an attempt to do it as wisely as possible. So I would like to ask him to send a letter, but until Minister Wiebes advises otherwise, I will keep the stake on the motion. So I'm gonna have to dissuade it. Of course, I think Mr Nijboer's request is perfectly reasonable, so I shall pass on that. Then the motion to part No. Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr Bruins, Mr I also want to discuss this again with the Central Planning Office. I would like to see whether there is any additional work to be done and whether this can be done at all, without me becoming the one to have it done by finance officials. I think Mr Bruins wants something that has an even higher degree of reliability, in the sense that it is not from me, but from the independent planning agency. I think that's what he's looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u226	I specifically ask in the motion to examine the domain when the interest rate is lower than the growth rate. The CPB actually says that our economic formulas no longer work there. So I don't know if I'm looking for a calculation. I deliberately didn't ask for a sensitivity analysis, but for an analysis. We may need economists, but we don't need calculators. We need an analysis of what actually happens when we get into uncharted territory. The CPB might have a good answer. If it isn't the CPB, then maybe some economists, apart from the very clever calculators of our planning agencies. That's what I was thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u227	There is an excellent economist, promoted from the Ministry of Finance to the Central Planning Office. They have not only calculators, but also economists. With Mr Bruins' approval, I would first like to put the question as to whether there is anything to be done with this. If people say that they think differently about this request, then I will consider it and then I will come back to the Chamber with how I think I can handle it wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u228	I think that's a very nice order. Let me stress that I would not in any way find the extremely clever economists of the CPB merely calculators. I know there are very good and very smart people there. I thank the Minister for this tightening up of my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u229	But what does this mean for the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u230	I can give him a ruling room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u231	Judgement Room, thank you very much. Then the motion to part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u232	Mr Van Otterloo's motion on item No. 9 deals with the issue of repayment-free. What Mr Van Otterloo is asking here with the term he refers to, I really must be discouraged. I would like to assure him that I will continue to report to the Chamber on this subject, because I think it is very important. Quite apart from the debate on our own responsibility, I think that as a society with the financial sector, with politicians, we should do the best we can to ensure that we do not have a huge problem here. I dissuade the motion, but I'm adding this context. The motion in part No. 10 indicates that Mr Van Otterloo is in many respects a worthy successor of Mr Van Rooijen. That also shows this motion again. The judgment must be dissuaded, however sad it may be. The ideas in the motion go in the same direction as those of Mr Van Rooijen. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Bruins (35350-B, No. 8). I want to give that amendment judgment Chamber. Technically, there's something else that needs to be changed. I believe that under III the text should read: Article 2 Social Affairs and Employment of the budget state reduces the amount of commitments and expenditure by 8,500 (€1,000). That is a technical adjustment, which I would like to read out in order to do it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u233	We're doing all right here, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u234	In the meantime, I have it in the legislative office and I expect the amendment to be distributed well before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u235	Changed our direction coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u236	Fantastic. I thank Mr Bruins for his technical support. The amendment in part No. 4 (35350-B) I must advise against, because there is no cover. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 7 by Van Dijk and Alkaya. I should also advise against this amendment, because there is no cover. I think I have done all three amendments, and therefore all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u237	Thank you. Then we've come to the end. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-16.u239	I thank the Minister for being here today. We shall vote tomorrow on the motions and the amendments. So much for today's deliberations.
