ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the VAO Inspection of Education in Foundational Education, with Mr Van Raan as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Increasing the role of the education inspection for supervision of Turkish weekend schools was given a certain priority in this house. Consistent MPs should therefore also be able to agree with a similar examination of the inspection of the wrong influence of fossil companies in education. We have two motions and one question. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several companies influence young children through sponsorship, guest classes and technical festivals;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in parallel with the exploration of informal training, whether and how the Education Inspectorate can have a supervisory role on those elements of education organised by companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-219]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party talks about "businesses." That is, of course, a broad interpretation of what is going on in the Netherlands. In the debate he was talking about Shell in particular, but of course we also have Philips, ASML and Microsoft, all of which are helping children with programmes at school to shape education better. Where is the border for you? Which companies do you want to do this at? That motion is very much interpretable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	I understand the question. In the motion, you could pack what the border is. You could define what is a harmful effect, or what is a good influence. You could do all that. You could even call companies by name. We have explicitly chosen not to do so, just as Mr Heerma's motion did not. Perhaps it would be a good idea to look a little more closely at companies whose income model is demonstrably damaging future generations, especially those children we are currently training. But we have explicitly chosen not to make that choice for the Minister. We're just asking to see how that can be handled. Let me give you one example. It's still really amazing that you get to hear at technical festivals, through NAM educational material, that the soil can shake something when you drill for gas. Of course, it would be very nice if that had been the only thing. Then we wouldn't have to have had this whole discussion about Groningen. So there are messages hidden in it that aren't so good for future generations. That's the request in the motion. With this answer, I'd like to turn it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	You had another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	We therefore believe that fossil companies in particular have a free hand in Dutch education, partly because we have to do it with a relatively thin covenant, which is not known to all schools. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several companies influence young children through sponsorship, guest classes and technical festivals;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in the evaluation of the Covenant on Primary and Secondary Education and Sponsorships, how impact can be addressed more severely by companies than has been the case so far,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	Finally, a question, Mr President. In the AO I asked the Minister about the role of government staff in the upcoming edition of Generation Discover, Shell's dubious children's marketing festival. Last year, that greenwash festival was boycotted by dozens of primary schools. Now schools are again faced with the choice of whether or not to participate. In addition to the parliamentary questions we have asked about this, we ask the Minister to remind the Dutch schools of the series of incidents involving fossil stealth advertising and marketing on previous editions of Generation Discover. Is he willing to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, over the past year, I think we have talked a little too often about educators making a mess of it and the terrible effort it takes to remove from office an educational director, whom almost everyone agrees that he has made a mess of it. Now we are so familiar with us never too bad to give the Minister a hand. So, we have joined forces with the VVD too, not every day, and that has led us to the following, in my own humble opinion, excellent proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that if an educational director does not function and internal governance cannot deal with this, the school board will only be forced to dismiss a non-functioning educational director after an appointment;]] [[Considers that, in the event of an emergency caused by non-functioning teachers, the Minister should be able to act directly in order to ensure continuity of education in order to avoid worse;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the Minister to relieve directly a non-functioning teacher of his duties if there is evidence of maladministration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	That maladministration actually sounds rather limited to me. I still have to think about exactly what my assessment of this motion is, but maladministration feels very bad about financial management, while I think there may be other reasons why a driver is not working. We have seen this in higher education, for example. There it is much more about the social responsibility that a driver takes. You can't call that maladministration. Has maladministration been deliberately chosen in terms of financial maladministration or is it very broad and, if so, how broad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	As far as we're concerned, things are broader. I am looking at Mr Heerema with a slanted eye, but I believe that at the moment we are changing maladministration into maladministration and then we have Mr Van Meenen's support, I am going to get the paper back right away. Then I'll adjust it here on the spot. Can we agree to that, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	That's clear. I don't know yet, we're gonna see. At least the answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	Then we proceed to Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In an education debate at the beginning of this year, we tabled a motion asking the Minister to consult with the inspection to review the educational outcomes model of the inspection because that educational outcomes model was too cost-effective for us. For example, it looks at the learning outcomes and the number of sitters. The Minister said: I will consult with the inspection. So there was a promise. We've withdrawn the motion on that. The Minister also said: if it is going to take too long, you may call me on that. Knowing that hasn't happened yet. That is why I would like to repeat the motion, this time with a deadline, but perhaps in his reply the Minister can tell us whether that consultation has taken place, because I would like to withdraw that motion with all my heart. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that school assessment is based on learning outcomes;]] [[Whereas this can contribute to a situation in which returns are central and not the pupil and this leads to additional stress and workload for pupils;]] [[Whereas pupils have the right to make choices which, in retrospect, are different from what they thought;]] [[Whereas in education the importance of the student should be paramount and not the figures;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the Education Inspectorate to consider whether a review of the educational outcomes model could lead to less efficiency thinking in schools, and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr President, thank you. For my part, no motions, but a question to the Minister. In general, we have been strongly critical of the way the education inspection works and the quality they deliver. We now need a policy review of the education inspection. My question, for the simple reason that I don't know, is: when will this policy review on the education inspection take place as a result of the new policy framework? And is it possible to bring forward that screening as much as possible so that we can receive it quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you. Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is a good thing that I first express my thanks for the letter I received from the colleague of this minister, the Minister of Education, on one of the questions I had asked about the closed system of MBO and higher education. So I'm not going to table a motion on that right now. The general consultation left me with one point: how to deal with the legal status of schools that are given an "insufficient" assessment. I have the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that school boards can only object to the "very weak" assessment of education in the inspection report, but not to the "insufficient" judgment;]] [[further noted that in a significant number of schools after the objection procedure, the "very weak" assessment is still being revised upwards;]] [[Whereas the inspection does not need to state the reasons why it does not accept the views of the School Board on the inspection report, which may be detrimental to schools if they are given the "insufficient" judgment;]] [[invites the Cabinet to examine the possibilities for the school authorities to take legal action against a judgment other than "very weak', taking into account how the inspection should respond to the views of the school board and to inform the Chamber within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-222]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr Heerema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	The text which Mr Rog has read relates in particular to'very weak' and 'insufficient'. Since I do not see it in the operative part, my question is whether schools which, for example, have a'sufficient' and who are motivated to achieve a 'good', and who feel that they should have that as a result of the inspection visit, can also argue against it. I believe that every school should strive for the highest possible judgment. Then from "sufficient" to "good" is at least as important as from "insufficient" to "sufficient."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	That's how we remember the VVD. I have focused in particular on the legal status of schools with an "insufficient" opinion, because of which, of course, they may have negative consequences. At the same time, if Mr Heerema sympathizes with me, I deliberately chose the wording in the operative part: a different judgment than'very weak'. Thus, for the top schools of Mr Heerema who want to move from "sufficient" to "good," that possibility remains. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Meenen of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr. Chairman. Following the general discussion, I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the inspection to have as real a picture as possible of a school;]] [[Whereas the current working methods of the inspection result in additional workload for teachers;]] [[Whereas the inspection with announced visits does not give a full picture of the school;]] [[calls on the Government to make inspections of basic education mainly unannounced visits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u25	And then about the supervision of special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u26	Before you go any further, I think Mr Rog has another question about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u27	Yes, now that it is part of the debate, I thought I'd take that opportunity right away. I think we have had a lot of attention in the debate for those unannounced visits. My group has also advocated this. I think the Minister has also promised that he will do so more often. What does this motion add? Will Mr Van Meenen now visit a certain percentage of unannounced visitors? What does he want more than the Minister has already promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u28	I didn't hear that commitment so loudly. When you read the motion, you will see that it says "predominantly." I actually want most of the visits to take place unannounced and to announce it where it is necessary, for example when there is enhanced supervision. Then perhaps it is necessary to announce it, because then there is a lot of things to be prepared. But I honestly think, also from my own experience, that you get a much better picture of a school when you walk into it on a random day and see how things stand. Then you must have all kinds of documents, but you can do it all after that. Now schools spend a great deal of time building up the school for the inspection visit. That's how it goes. That's the workload I'm talking about. I wish we could go back to the way it used to be. Then the inspector just walks in at some point. Then you'll have to make sure you get your shit together. We will soon see whether the Minister feels the same or his commitment included that. I don't quite believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u29	You continue with your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u30	That motion is about special education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the supervisory framework for special primary and special education is not in line with practice;]] [[Whereas such schools must justify each child separately from the inspection, depending on whether special education or special primary education is in progress;]] [[Whereas this hampers the care of children, as teachers have lost a lot of time explaining themselves;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sector, to consider how the monitoring of special primary education and special education can be better aligned with the practice in schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u31	Do you have another motion, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Sure. It's about the IKCs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current supervisory framework does not fit well with integrated child centres, where education and childcare work closely together;]] [[noting that the GGD supervises childcare and educational inspection in schools;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to better align the monitoring framework with integrated child centres by, for example, cooperating with the GGD and the education inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u33	I'm looking at the minister for his answer. We'll wait a few moments for the final motions. Then we can get on with the answer. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u34	I'm just gonna get started, Mr. Chairman. There's a few more coming. I did write along. I shall begin with Mr Van Raan's motions. After the summer it continues consistently with the line he had put in place in the general consultation. I hope he doesn't blame me too for being consistent in my reaction. I advise your motion in part No. 218 because I do not think that the inspection should interfere. You know that everything that has to do with sponsorship and the like must always go through the participation council. It goes through teachers first. Co-determination councils need to keep the finger on the wrist. We have faith in the professionalism of these people. They must make choices on their own responsibility. We are not giving the inspection any further tasks. So I'm dissuading your motion. With regard to your second motion, the motion in part No. 219, can I tell you that the evaluation is going to the Chamber next month. I therefore consider this motion to be superfluous. The evaluation will be sent to you. I'm gonna pass judgment on it, too. Then, if necessary, we can also discuss it with each other. In that respect, you will be served at your beck and call. We'll have the evaluation next month. Then it's up to you to decide if you'd like to bring me to the Chamber for that. I therefore advise against both of your motions. Then there's your question. I'm not going to write all the schools. I have just indicated that I have faith in the professional judgment given in schools with regard to everything that is offered. There's room to make choices in that. We must be careful that we do not want to determine this at a rich level. There is always room in schools, also for parents, for teachers, through the participation council and in other ways when they think that choices are being made that they do not agree with, to discuss them. As a ruler, I do not need to interfere. That's an autonomous process. If people have listened, this may be a subject on which they will be even more alert, perhaps triggered by what you have said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u35	It's a disappointing answer. The Minister made a commitment last time, and he kept it, to point this out in a letter which goes to schools anyway. He has done so in the form of a bullet point which is pointed out in a series of about thirty. But it is really disappointing when teaching material is distributed that the oil and gas industries are pioneers in social responsibility in the communities where they operate, while we know that companies like Shell in Nigeria face a huge condemnation and that Vermillion in the Netherlands wants to drill shale gas. An additional warning would really adorn him and would really be necessary, because the mr doesn't let you and can expect them to keep track of it all. Such a signal from the government would really be desirable. It's a shame the Minister doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u36	There's been a lot of discussion about what's in methods. I also get questions about this at regular intervals. The first exit when it comes to criticizing methods. It's supposed to be in the school. That's where choices are made. That's what we give room for in this country. At the moment when there are objections to the choices that are being made there, we have provided scope and opportunities for discussion in the school, including in the context of supervision. If necessary, correction may also be made. Only when criminal matters are specifically, say, on the agenda, is it logical that there should be a different level of action. You object to this now, but there may also be Members of Parliament who say: well, that is not such a big problem for me. They think another subject is very important. If you open the lock to assess everything at a rich level, if you're going to put that like a blanket over the Netherlands and if everyone has to behave accordingly, I don't think that's quite the education system we've chosen and the way we want it to work. This is without prejudice to the possibility of discussing everything at any time. That also applies to you, because of course you are free to make this contribution. Then the motion to part No. 220 by Mr Kwint and Mr Heerema. I understand the dissatisfaction with the fact that the current regulation takes a very long time to intervene when we think that things are happening that really cannot. We have already seen some examples of this, even in this cabinet period. We want to get rid of that. That is why the cabinet has put forward a proposal: we want to work towards an urgent direction. You found that in my letter of 7 June. We have also discussed this in general consultations. I don't know if I've said it in such detail in the consultation. If there's a real rush, an urgent alert could even mean I can give a clue in a week or two. Such an indication always goes through the legal person. It's so arranged through the Civil Code. It would really be very inappropriate for the government to intervene directly with a legal person or something that a legal person is responsible for. But we're gonna speed it up. I hope that we will be able to develop this proposal quickly and that it can be dealt with quickly in the Chamber afterwards. There's one more thing. The General Administrative Law Act, which includes the principle of due diligence, naturally also requires us to respect that principle. The General Administrative Law Act and the Civil Code make demands on how you can intervene, including with other legal entities. Of course, that's just gonna stay there. If you want it to change, you're gonna have to make an initiative law for that. In any case, the cabinet will not take any initiative, I can tell you now. If we are to be able to intervene more quickly when something is going on, we have already made provision for this in our proposals for urgent action. That's what we're working on right now. So that could mean you can intervene in two weeks. That is broader than what is mentioned in this motion as motive, I also say in the direction of Mr Van Meenen. This is the route the cabinet is on. In my opinion, you are fully served, but in accordance with our laws and regulations, Civil Code, General Administrative Law and so on, as I believe we should do in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u37	So your verdict on this motion is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u38	I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u39	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u40	It is also a matter of urgency, given the fact that all kinds of legislation is being cycled in a way that cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u41	I thought support policy. But then the judgment is apparently "dissuade." I don't think we're that far apart from each other when I hear it like that. I am concerned that we should finance schools with public money, but then we should not be able to say anything about the failing driver and his malpractice, which harms hundreds and sometimes thousands of children. I think that we should be able to intervene. You indicate that proposals are being worked on in order to arrive at an urgent decision. You are working on the effects it can have and on the precise content. Does this prompt indication therefore mean that you can immediately send a driver away at the moment when malpractice is at stake? That is important for us to see in those whole zipper of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u42	I have just said this: the urgent warning, as we have indicated to you in our letter of 7 June and which we are now working on, means that we are going to speed up the route that is already there and which is taking a very long time, in order to be able to act more quickly. I have just indicated that if there is a real rush and it is extremely important, it could be done within fourteen days. That always goes through the legal person. You know we'll give you a clue. At the moment when this designation is not followed, as a sanction, we have the opportunity to stop the funding as you know. That is also the way in which we will have to do that. However, we cannot ride through the Civil Code and the General Administrative Law and such through direct action. It must always be done through the legal person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u43	It is important to me why the motion is now being dissuaded. Is it being dissuaded because it is superfluous, because what is being asked here is actually already happening? Or is it dissuaded because the Minister does not agree with the motion in substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u44	One: we're just getting started on the emergency directions. Two: the motion calls for us to be able to fire a driver directly, and that is not possible. However, by means of an urgent instruction, which I have already indicated can be given within fourteen days, we can give the legal person/competent authority/client the instruction to fire a driver. The ball then lies with them so to speak. If they don't, there's the penalty that we can stop the funding. But it can't be direct. That is what is being asked here, and that is really contrary to all kinds of provisions that are included in legislation and regulations. Nor do we intend to change that regulation in this way. For the material purpose set out here, the cabinet was already working, which is to be able to intervene quickly, much faster than it is now possible to do. We have also discussed this extensively before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u45	You are indeed making the distinction between formal and material. You have a formal objection. You say we're actually doing the equipment, because we're giving you a clue to do what's written here. That's not direct, because another party has to fire the driver. So you could also imagine that this motion, with a minor rewording, is only superfluous, because it would then support the policy. I'm looking a little bit, because I have great sympathy for this motion, but I do need to know what I'm getting into. If the motion is unnecessary, we can always say that we support you in your course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u46	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u47	If it really can't do what's written here, then I have to come to another judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u48	The way it says it, it can't be. That's exactly what I just reported. You can't go directly into government intervention and fire someone. It must always be done through the legal person. I have just indicated which legislation that is based on. We have to be careful how we deal with these things. What is meant by the motion and what one wants to achieve in material terms is to intervene more quickly when there is a problem in a school. I've already indicated that the cabinet is just working on that. Then the motion is indeed superfluous. If the motion is reworded in such a way that it complies with the laws and regulations, we are a little busy. That is what the cabinet is already working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u49	The author of the motion, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u50	Yeah, really good motion! Of course, we are not going to amend the motion in such a way that it is superfluous, because then we might as well not file it. It is indeed as the Minister says. We are asking for an opportunity to put directly failing directors on the dike if the continuity of education is in danger. I can use it to make the most of it, but that is at the heart of what we are asking the cabinet to do. If that means changing things into laws and rules, I think that's the logical consequence. If you couldn't have changed the rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u51	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u52	... and it is something the Minister seeks in substance, it would have happened long ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u53	I understand, therefore, Mr Kwint, that this motion aims to amend the general law of the administration and that the cabinet will amend the Civil Code. In that case, it will no longer apply only to an educational director, but it will apply widely throughout society that a government can intervene with organisations that are its own legal entity. I hope you realize what you're up against with this. Looking at your goal, I would say: read again what the cabinet has proposed, because we are simply fully serving you. We're even in agreement. We believe that the current procedures take far too long. The letter we wrote on 7 June contains far-reaching measures. We can quickly give a clue, but in accordance with other laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u54	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u55	The cabinet has absolutely no intention of amending these laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u56	Finally, Mr Kwint, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u57	I've heard the Minister's verdict. Of course, I'll take a look at it with all my love and pleasure. We ourselves are not yet convinced that only such rigorous changes will make possible what we want, but of course we are going to look at them. Then we are just going to breed in a way that we can give the Minister that competence, which he secretly wants to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u58	We've arrived at the motion in part No. 221.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u59	On the last point made by Mr Kwint, President. Sometimes it's nice for the Chamber to just say what it wants. Then that could mean an extra push in the direction that has been deployed. But that is absolutely not the issue here. We're really doing something very far-reaching. What you want to do is really so unwise that I hope you will think again. You've been very clear about what you wanted. I really hope you'll reconsider that. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Heerema. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks has once again tabled a motion on which I have indeed made a commitment. I'm working on the workout. In the autumn you would receive further information from me. I'm gonna report on that. We're talking. In this respect, I am simply fulfilling my commitment and do not need this motion anymore. You will simply receive a cabinet response before the end of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u60	The motion in part No. 221 is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u61	She's completely unnecessary, because I'm already busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u62	The motion is dissuaded because it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u63	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u64	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (35000-VIII, No. 221). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u65	Then the motion to part No. 222.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mr President, I would first like to comment on the questions put by Mr Heerema concerning the inspection and the screening, as I would like to mention. From the annual reports that you will undoubtedly read every year, you will know that the inspection has even invested its own research into its own functioning in a certified manner externally. Research takes place every year. This has recently happened again. I've been looking into it for a while, but reports like this aren't usually posted on the website. It is planned to do so. Keep an eye on the website. Then you can find it. There are also self-evaluations. Radboud University is also always investigating the effects of the inspection. The next ones will follow in 2020. I think the public's got reports to see. There are many ways of looking at the operation of the inspection, as has been done quite recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u67	Before you go any further, Mr Heerema has a short question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yeah, a quick question. It is posted on the website. I am glad to see that, because then we will be able to read what the education inspector has himself examined. In particular, we want to know how the inspection of education comes to the judgements 'insufficient', 'weak','sufficient', 'good' etc. If that is not enough, do you agree with us that we should look into this in particular? As a VVD, we have doubts about that. We would like to see that again in policy reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u69	I have just indicated how the inspection itself looks at its own functioning and let externals do so. This includes a wide range of things: what does an inspection do and is it the level that we can expect from each other? You'll get those reports. Of course, if you read the reports, you will have the right to say that you are still missing some things. My view is that the inspection has been doing so for ten or fifteen years now, in a very careful way, also by outsiders. The annual report reports on this, as you have always been able to read. Mr Rog has tabled a motion which goes very far to discuss it in a VAO. I'm gonna try to be brief. Quality judgements are generally not subject to judicial review. That is a clear choice, also because, of course, we do not want to see a huge judicialisation taking place. These quality judgements must, on the contrary, ensure that we look again at how one can improve one's own quality. What do we do with what the eyes of the inspection have seen in the documents and classes? In what way are we going to ensure that next time we have strengthened our quality? One exception has been made, namely for "very weak." That has to do with the following. If you fall under the judgment "very weak" and if you stay that way for a while, you may lose your funding. That is why an exception has been made for that part. Inspection supervision shall always be subject to the right to hear and to hear in the process. An inspection must respond to that. I can tell you that, when it comes to hearing and hearing again, it is not just an oral conversation, but that there are sometimes very extensive documents produced with legal assistance. All this takes the inspection into account in the weighting whether it is justified or not, and that ultimately leads to judgment. That may therefore be the judgment that it is insufficient or very weak, or you name all the judgments on which there are. If the school does not like it and is not in agreement with it, then there is always the possibility of the report being linked to it, so that everyone can understand what the school's opinion is. But the discussion about the judgment to be given has taken place, and in the hearing and hearing phases we have been able to insert everything we wanted. Again, the point of view is to make that transparent. If, as a school, one still thinks that this report may be harmful and if one does not want it to be made public, then there is also the possibility to prevent such disclosure from being prevented from happening in the administrative courts. The administrative court may, for example, be asked for a preliminary ruling. In short, there is already provision in this regard for interim proceedings to be brought; we have seen this recently at a school from Amsterdam, as you may know. Then there is or will not be permission for disclosure. So I want to stick to the way we did this. If you tell me that this is going quite far, perhaps too far to discuss it completely now, and if you ask me to put on paper what is going on so that we can talk about it even more intrusively at a later, quieter moment, I would be happy to do so. But the motion as it is, I really must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u70	The motion in part No. 222 is not recommended. Mr Van Meenen has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u71	I understand very well what Mr Rog wants, but I also fear the growing judicialisation. Of course, we can already see that more and more administrations are resisting the publication of their report before the courts. I like that, too. But the second part of the operative part is about whether the inspection still needs to respond at all. It is true that a school can add its own view to the inspection report, also on the website; anyone can read it. But you can't see how the inspection reacts to that anymore. He doesn't even have to respond to that at all. So perhaps there is still the possibility to at least force the inspection to respond to that and not say "we accept it for notification," and that is what it is. So I'm still looking for a way to achieve something more than nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u72	In every sense: what happens at such a school, and what happens in such an investigation? The hearing and hearing phase is, of course, the moment for the reaction of the inspection. It can sometimes take a very long time, especially if there is a difference of opinion. The Board's arguments are presented to the inspection. The inspection responds to that again, and she also takes it into her final judgment. But then there's judgment. That's when you determine it. So the discussion has been, the inspection has weighed everything and comes to a different judgment, but then we have given the school board an opportunity by stating that we think it is fair that the school board, if it does not agree, can make it clear in what way it differs from that. That's the point of view. If you are going to open the door to respond to that again, we will return to the route. That's gonna be very slippery ice. We shouldn't really want that with each other. But I would like to talk about this again at a quiet moment. It really goes very far to do so now in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u73	The author of the motion, Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u74	We have, of course, already discussed this in general consultation. My point, however, is that the "insufficient" assessment is rather far-reaching for schools. That makes me think we can't just ignore that. I'm not gonna hold or withdraw the motion right now. We have the debate here, and then I'm gonna let what the Minister says work on my mind. I might come back to that. However, I do not want more legalisation by definition, rather than more legalisation, but what is always apparent is that in more than 20% of the cases of schools that get the judgment'very weak' it turns out to be a higher judgment after an objection procedure. This means that we assume that this also applies to the judgment "insufficient'. This can have serious social effects. From that concern, I filed the motion. I'm gonna think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u75	The motion in part No. 222 is not recommended. Then there are three more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u76	I wish Mr Rog a great deal of wisdom in his further consideration. I hope he wants to take my words. Mr Van Meenen paid attention to the unannounced visits by the inspection. He's got part number one now. A motion has been tabled in which he states that he wants this to happen mainly. I myself, in general consultation, have indicated that the inspection in current practice, even if there are nature and risks to be estimated, is already in the process of unannounced visits. They are not yet registered, but they will do so from now on. The inspection intends to do so more often. The Court of Auditors has taken initiatives to monitor the inspection, which must be carried out on the basis of trust. Appointments are made to go through a certain cycle. When it comes to the degree of confidence, it goes a little too far to say that the visits must now mainly take place unannounced. It is going to happen more, but with 'predominantly' I also wonder what that means in legal terms when it comes to choices that need to be made. That is a step too far, as far as I am concerned. But you will be served at your beck and call: it will happen more often. This will be reported in the annual reports, so you can keep your finger on the pulse when it comes to how it works in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u77	One of the considerations in the motion is that, with the announced visits, there will be a huge workload, which the schools partly impose on themselves, because there is a lot and a lot to be delivered and done. Besides, it often gives a slightly polished image. For me, that is the main reason: combating the workload and the honest image. That has nothing to do with trust. I think other inspections do not announce visits months in advance either. The inspection that investigates construction sites is not going to announce for three months what day will be looked at if everyone wears a helmet? You don't, you just walk in there and you see what it's like. That is actually a valuable element. But I understand that with the word "predominantly" I am turning the whole inspection control upside down. I really want it to be more than it is now. More is that we are now going to do it four times a year instead of three times. If I make it more, how do you look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u78	Just about those three months: usually an appointment is made two or three weeks in advance. Maybe at a single school, when it comes to follow-up studies, it's something that's been known before. It is also important that the people you need are there, regardless of the fact that there are also documents to be submitted. But let's not have that discussion. If you make "predominantly" "more," I can give her judgment room. This is also in line with the intention of the inspection. That's what's being reported. You can keep following it. If you find that more is not enough, then we can discuss it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u79	Fine. I'll change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u80	The Van Meenen motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the inspection to have as real a picture as possible of a school;]] [[Whereas the current working methods of the inspection result in additional workload for teachers;]] [[Whereas the inspection with announced visits does not give a full picture of the school;]] [[calls on the Government to make more unannounced visits to the foundational education inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 223 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u81	In the motion in part No. 224 is asked to consider ways of simplifying the supervisory frameworks for special primary and special education. That's a motion I'm giving you, too, Chamber. We will look into that and inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u82	The motion in part No. 224 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u83	I would ask Mr Van Meenen to put the motion to the vote. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. That is, I think, the right time to see where the bottlenecks are and to continue the discussion. In addition to your new wallet, I think you can do a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u84	Sure. Thank you. I'll hold the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u85	At the request of Mr Van Meenen, I propose his motion (35000-VIII, No. 225). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr President, I think I have had the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u87	Yeah, that's right. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u88	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
