ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the VSO Review of complaint handling and handling in the different educational sectors and evaluation of complaints in the foundational education system. I give the floor to Mrs van den Hul, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering our questions in writing. Not all the worries have been taken away from us. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it may be possible for a school to issue a student with retroactive effect after months up to the counting date of that school year;]] [[Considers that this may seem an elegant solution for funding which has been wrongly received by the school, but this is contrary to the spirit of the legal provision that removal of a pupil does not take place unless the competent authority has ensured that another school is willing to admit the pupil;]] [[calls on the Government to make such write-offs of a pupil with retroactive effect impossible until the counting date,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u3	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that procedures in educational disputes do not always lead to a solution that parents perceive as satisfactory;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how, in the interests of individual parents, the educational inspection itself can and should be given a more active role in monitoring appropriate removals and write-offs of pupils and better respond to such signals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. There is a mess of complaints and disputes committees in this country. Given its quality and occupation and the confusion it causes, it seems good to bring them all under one umbrella. That's what this motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are several bodies responsible for handling complaints and disputes in education;]] [[Whereas this creates confusion in education and stakeholders and ensures that there is no clear national picture of complaints and disputes in education;]] [[calls on the Government to organise all complaints and disputes settlement with the Education Disputes Foundation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u5	I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen a few questions, because I understand that he is a little confused about the fact that several school domes have their own complaints system. What is the reason for D66 that it is no longer allowed, that it must all be on one complaints committee and that people are no longer allowed to unite themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u6	It's fine when people unite. But what should also happen is that people really have access to a good complaints committee or dispute committee. What you see and mostly hear in the field is that there is in the first place uncertainty about the addressing. Look for "complaint committee." You'll find a lot of them. Secondly, you saw that in certain, especially the denominational complaints committees, sometimes 20, 30 years are the same people. The image is confusing and the quality is under pressure. There is one organ where in my view all that knowledge is in order. I think it is in the best interest, especially of those who have a complaint or who wish to enter into a dispute, that it should be properly dealt with. I am concerned that this is not the case now. That's my own experience, by the way. I do not see why there should be a difference between, say, a complaint committee with a Protestant, Catholic or any background. Justice is justice, and it must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u7	Finally, Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u8	It may be that Mr Van Meenen has noted that some complaints committees have people longer than he thinks should be, but this could also lead to different demands. What I note is that Mr Van Meenen really wants to turn his back on this type of complaint committee. It is a good thing that we have that sharp, because I find that rather radical in how people want to organise themselves. I might have expected that from the SP, but not from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u9	We also have one system of justice in the Netherlands. Nor am I in favour of having all kinds of religiously founded courts that might understand what it is about much better. That goes for the same thing here. Why? There is no difference between law in particular education, public education, Catholic, Protestant or Islamic. Let's just pool the knowledge that's there. That's in the best interest of anyone who has a case like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. I'll see if the Minister has the motions and will answer immediately. That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Hul's first motion. I have thought for a moment whether this is the place to deal with this issue, because the VSO is about the system of complaints. This is more of a specific situation that we have once discussed in a debate on appropriate education. However, having said that, I would like to say the following. The starting point is that one student is enrolled in one school. I think we all agree with that. We also know that the regulation is that it is only possible to write a pupil retroactively before the date of counting, if that pupil is actually registered at another school before that date. In fact, that must be done. In the systems that usually goes automatically and overrulet the new registration the old, just to put it in those terms. The student does indeed have a place at another school, so it is logical that the funding does not go to the school where the student no longer sits. This is therefore in line with the legal provision that the removal of a pupil does not take place after the competent authority has ensured that another school is willing to admit the pupil. That's our rules. Now we know that sometimes a case pops up, so often it gets very annoying, also for the concerned: both the parents and the child as well as the schools that need to be looked into, where there are possibilities to object when things go differently. But the line's just standing. For that reason, I can only advise against this motion. This is just our laws and regulations regarding the writing-out, and I think we should not want that to be any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u12	The motion in part No. 9 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u13	Let me tell you something else. In due course, if we continue to talk about appropriate education, we will come back to this type of subject a little more comprehensively from the evaluation to the future. Then we can look again at whether the current legislation is in everything, but for the moment we are in the same position as each other. Again, in view of the funding and the question of where a student is, we should not want that to be different. Then the motion to part No. 10 on a more active role of the education inspection in monitoring removals and write-offs of pupils. Unfortunately, I must also discourage this motion. Unfortunately, today is not a day when I can give the motions that are always my intention to give, but that really has to do with its content. You know that's just our laws and regulations and from that responsibility I have to assess motions that the inspection has no role in individual cases. If signals occur more frequently in a particular school or in a particular partnership, they are involved in what we call risk-based supervision of schools. For the legal protection of parents, we have created other possibilities. For example, they can object to a decision on admission or expulsion before the competent authority of the school or go to court, which is the last thing you have to do. You'd better try to arrange it in a preliminary trajectory. They also have the possibility to ask for an opinion on the admission or removal of a child from the National Disputes Committee appropriate education. By the way, it is compulsory for all schools, unlike the others. As a result of the responsibility for a comprehensive offer to address home-owners, the partnerships and the compulsory education officer can also engage in discussions with parents and schools on admission or removal problems. That's how we've arranged it now. I therefore recommend that this motion should now be included in the inspection. For this, we should also amend our laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u14	The motion in part No. 10 has been dissuaded. Finally, the motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u15	The motion in part No. 11 you can fly in in different ways. Let me get my other piece of paper. This can be done in the manner in which Mr Rog interrupted Mr Van Meenen. It is true that we actually have four national dispute committees. We have the Education Disputes Foundation. This includes public education and Islamic education. We have the Disputes Committees Special Education, the SCIO. There are a number of denominations underneath. In addition, we have appropriate education for the Disputes Committee. It's for everyone. Then we also have a dispute committee around the WMS. These are the first two in particular. The law actually says very sec: we require schools to have rules for handling complaints, but we do not set up a single committee. So if we wanted what Mr Van Meenen is proposing here, we would have to change the law to ensure that there could only be one national committee. Well, then the question is, what kind of problem are we gonna solve with this? What we do see as a problem at the moment is that there are different model schemes. Everyone does apply a model regulation. We have now made the agreement that we are going to try to bring more uniformity to that. We want to make these model regulations more equal. However, I would like to add that perhaps one reason for holding this motion for a moment is that, as you have read, the evaluation has shown that some research could be carried out into possible alternative arrangements for the complaints system. The principles mentioned here are clear case law, unambiguous working methods, professional complaint handling and independence of committees. I can promise your chamber that I will have that investigation carried out. That might be a very good time to put this motion next to it. It doesn't need to be withdrawn, but I'd keep it going. I would like to point out to the honourable Member whether it is really necessary to ensure that this standard is applied in this way or whether we are able to remedy any deficiencies that may have been detected in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u16	It raises the moods here, but the Minister suggests to Mr Van Meenen to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u17	I would first like to know what this research is aimed at. The problems are also mentioned by the Minister himself. In fact, there is almost legal inequality; each does it in his own way. The background to my motion is that we are going to prevent this and that we are going to accommodate it where the knowledge is by far the greatest, at least in my view. But where exactly does the Minister's research focus, and at what time could we expect to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u18	I would like to put my finger on the point about legal inequality. That's your interpretation. The legislator has left room for the schools, even when it comes to the choices for a national complaints committee. So he didn't give a very tight framework for that. In this respect, we are already pleased that we are working to ensure that the model arrangements become more uniform. That also gives a bit more comparison. The research focuses on the following. The parties concerned, the PO Council, the VO Council, the AVS, as well as the trade unions and the complaints committees, would be well advised if we were to examine whether the complaints regime could be set up in a different way. I have just set out the principles used in that investigation: clear case law, unambiguous working methods, professional complaint handling and independence of committees. I'd like to have that investigation conducted. I don't know exactly when that'll be done. I hope as soon as possible. Then we can see once again whether it is really necessary to implement the standardisation in the way you propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u19	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u20	That research sounds to me like a way to maintain what we have now and the difference in quality. The Minister actually says: what should we do to resolve that in such a way that we can at least keep what we have now? That won't be necessary for me. In fact, the Minister also makes it clear that there is such inequality. In fact, the system leaves room for legal inequality. So I'm gonna leave the motion as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u21	Clear. Then it's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u22	I would advise against the motion, but I am very sorry that Mr Van Meenen explains my words in such a way that I indicate that there is legal inequality. Those aren't my words. If that is your interpretation of what is happening now, it is of course your right to say so. I note, however, that the legislator is currently providing rather broad frameworks for how to set this up. There are obligations at school level, but for how that goes nationwide, we have left room. Of course, this also has to do with the various palettes of schools and the choices they want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the VSO Overview of complaint handling and handling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-10.u24	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. An own-initiative proposal will be on the table shortly. That's always good. I'll give you room for the changement. I'll suspend for a few moments, but in a few minutes we'll proceed immediately.
