ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the announcement that Brussels is considering asking the ECB for a financial contribution of EUR 56 billion. I warmly welcome the Minister of Finance, the Members and the people who are following this debate in a different way, although I understand that today we have great competition from a debate by the list-goers. But this debate is not insignificant either, and I am therefore the first to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr President, thank you for your introduction. It is a small bridge to: here is the list leader for 50PLUS for the Upper House. But not in this capacity now. Mr. Chairman. The seigniorage income, the interest income on the issue of the euro, are earned exclusively by euro countries. The European Commission looks forward to it, because it wants a budget for the 19 euro countries. It would be great if we didn't hear any more about this seigniorage revenue from Brussels, but that seems unlikely to me. That is not flat speculation; I am trying to lay the puzzle with the pieces that the European Commission itself is spreading. In February 2018, the European Commission presented some options for the future financial framework. This document suggested that the seigniorage revenue could somehow benefit the EU budget, up to a maximum of 56 billion over a seven-year period. The motion I tabled together with Renske Leijten and Tony van Dijck was supported by a majority in this Chamber. The operative part was as follows: "calls on the Government to clearly indicate to the European Commission that a claim on the ECB's seigniorage income exceeds a red line'. Whether the motion helped, I don't know, but a claim on monetary income was and is a red line. It is far too much like monetary financing. The Commission may have felt the same, because the option was later explained in such a way that only, in quotes, a claim is made to the Member States to the extent of the amount corresponding to the dividend paid by the central bank or part of it. The direct link with the profits of the central banks and with that seigniorage is then cut through. If the problem is solved, that's what I'm asking. Well, no, Mr President, because even in this case, the door, which must always be closed, is still being opened. Finally, I have the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister have any reason to believe that the European Commission has now completely abandoned the suggestion of asking for a contribution from the Member States based on part of central bank seigniorage income or on the dividends of central banks? Or is the idea still on the table as a suggestion for the upcoming MFF, whether or not it is covering a euro area instrument? What exactly is the legal status of this idea right now? Can it suddenly emerge as an unpleasant surprise after a euro summit? Does the Minister agree with me that it is essential that an additional contribution or coverage for the EU budget in general or for the euro area instrument in particular should be linked to the revenue received by the State from the monetary system? Does the Minister share my fundamental resistance to this link or not? Mr. Chairman. Finally. It is possible that this debate on the message "Brussels is considering asking for a financial contribution of 56 billion to the ECB" is literally no longer topical. But appearances are deceiving, because of course the financial wish has not disappeared. Much more money is being sought, not less, and that means that this Parliament, like our Minister of Finance, must remain top-fit and wide awake in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijck, Tony van Dijck, from the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the European Commission wants more money, more money and more power. The European Commission therefore intends to spend as much as 1.313 billion over the next MFF period, or 350 billion more than the current MFF. They take everything out of the closet so they can bacon their own greenhouse. All discounts are cancelled: our half a billion VAT discount and the lump sum discount. The perception fees are halved, European taxes are introduced and VAT payments ultimately have to yield more. If all these plans continue, the Netherlands will pay 5 billion more to Brussels. What is the Minister going to do about this? The latest news is that the European Commission wants to take a hold in the ECB's cashier by roaming the coin money, i.e. the profits made by the Central Bank for the issue of money. We are talking about 56 billion in seven years. If this message is correct, I'll ask the Minister. Is it true that this profit amounted to 70 million for the Netherlands in 2016? Can the European Commission just skim off the ECB's profits and claim them for its own budget? I can't imagine that. Just a few more questions. The fee that the Netherlands receives for customs was first 25%, then 20%, and now the proposal becomes 10%. That leaves only 300 million. If that is enough to cover all customs costs, I ask the Minister. Why does the European Commission keep coming up with the CCCTB, which has long been fired by the Netherlands? What's it gonna take to make this go away? Can the European Commission simply claim a percentage of the tax on profits from a Member State? Can the European Commission simply increase a new type of tax and oblige a Member State to collect it, as is currently the case with the plastic tax? And can the European Commission simply claim 20% of the auction proceeds from the ETS? We also see the stabilisation function always above. Has the Minister made it sufficiently clear that the Netherlands does not want this? Because I do not think that the quarter has yet fallen in Brussels. Maybe it's this minister's tone. We're gonna have to cut down on diplomacy. According to the Minister, the stabilisation function "is not necessary for the functioning of EMU." What is this, "not necessarily"? So it's okay? This is a weak bite. On other subjects, too, the Minister is far too cautious, as far as we are concerned. The Minister "has reservations about new own resources" rather than: no European taxes, not now, never. Because that is the position of this government and of this Chamber. The Minister is also "very reluctant" about the CCCTB proposals. "Very reluctant"? We do not like these CCCTB proposals. That is what this Chamber has said, and that is the position of this government. The Minister is even positive about the ETS and plastic tax. "The contributions are politically consistent with the objectives of this cabinet." In other words, the Minister thinks this is a good idea. The Chamber doesn't think this is a good idea, Minister. Perhaps the Minister should show his teeth more often in Brussels. Now the minister is a barking chihuahua, and eventually he has to become a bulldog in Brussels and show his teeth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u6	Mr. Chairman. These are special monetary times. The ECB now has a balance sheet of more than 40% of Member States' gross domestic product. This consists of government loans, but also of super-cheap other loans. They also bought bonds from big companies. I share most of the criticism that just sprung. I am only more pessimistic on one point than the other two colleagues. I would love it if this policy would make the European Central Bank a 56 billion profit over the next seven years, because I see a completely different doom scenario for me. This is because the Italian government's loans, which are worth hundreds of billions on the ECB's balance sheet, will be worth less because they are undervalued. That's the big risk. At present, the ECB no longer has any room for manoeuvre, as the economy in Europe cools down and perhaps once a new recession breaks out. They can't buy up any further, the interest rate can't be lower, and today they've come up with a really big LTRO to keep weak banks up. Even the CPB now recognises that this extraordinary policy has had no effect. Well, that says something, after 2,500 billion euros buy-back policy. Those bonds are at book value on the balance sheet, but no one can put them on the balance sheet at book value. And if the ECB and the Italian central bank ever want to get rid of it, I wonder who's gonna say: just give me a few hundred billion government bonds from Italy. You can't lose it on the pavement. This is a time bomb, especially if Italy gets into trouble. Furthermore, there is a proposal from the IMF to eliminate cash so that negative interest rates can be introduced on deposits with banks. That's just expropriation. I would like to hear two answers from the Minister in this regard. Does the Minister see a way out of this monetary policy? According to the Minister, is it possible for the ECB to normalise its policy? What does a time frame look like? And does the government share the view that cash should simply continue to exist? Mr. Chairman. Then go to the room itself. The ECB is doing a lot and the mandate of the ECB is clearly under the Maastricht Treaty, but under that Treaty it has never been the intention to buy up such large amounts of sovereign debt. That is why I would like to propose that we ask Parliament's lawyer for an opinion on the ECB's mandate. Who can determine whether the ECB is going beyond the limit of that mandate and how can that mandate be made clear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u8	Mr President, I take note of the honours for my colleague Aukje de Vries, who is currently generating extra revenue for our latest state participation. Mr. Chairman. Removing amounts of up to 56 billion from the central banks and thus from the Member States concerned to create a stabilisation function to absorb large asymmetric shocks in EMU Member States? The VVD does not want that at all, firstly because Member States themselves are responsible for putting their economies and budgets in order, including the thirst to cope with shocks and crises. We are doing the best we can by nurturing the budgetary rules and maintaining them objectively. Secondly, the VVD does not want this because the VVD does not support the introduction of new own resources at European level. The cabinet has already been very clear. It stated in the letter on the future of EMU that a stabilisation function to cope with the effects of country-specific shocks is not necessary for the functioning of EMU. That is also in line with the coalition agreement. Nor is the cabinet in favour of how the Commission intends to finance this; the VVD supports this. The Chamber has also been clear with the Van Rooijen and others motion adopted, which states that we are crossing a red line in a claim on the ECB's income. This motion also supported the VVD. The Commission's contribution in its proposal is not directly linked to the monetary income received by Member States. Nevertheless, the cabinet is not in favour of this form of financing proposed by the Commission. The cabinet also believes, of course, that Member States should be able to finance their interest costs themselves. You may therefore wonder whether today's debate is necessary. The only questions the VVD has left are the following. The European Commission's proposals still contain the option of ECB revenue. What is the current state of play on this proposal? What does the force field in the European Union look like? And what is the Minister going to do to get the proposal off the table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u9	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u10	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u11	Mr President, thank you and thank you to Members. Perhaps I should begin by congratulating Mr Van Rooijen on the fact that we have this debate at all. I would have thought that if this debate had disappeared from the agenda, it would probably have disappeared for a long time. In any case, Mr Van Rooijen would not have been able to participate. I will not say that he will be upgraded, but at least he will move to another part of Parliament. You could ask yourself whether the test of time would not have been put further on this subject, because that has of course happened. I very much appreciate the fact that Mr Van Rooijen has done so. He will recognize with me that a lot has happened since February 2018 both in relation to the discussion on the seigniorage and in relation to the stabilisation mechanism at all. But thanks and appreciation in his direction. He also mentioned "top fit and wide awake." I'm not quite sure if he meant that I was already or that I still have to be, but I wanted to interpret it as a compliment. It might be good to say a few more things about the seigniorage. That, I think, is the answer to Mr Van Rooijen's questions. I fully understand his concern, especially his concern at that very first moment. In any case, it seemed that the Commission wanted to collect this seigniorage from the European Central Bank and actually use it. In any case, my observation is that the Commission then said: no, we really want to use that key. In itself, as the Netherlands, we can agree with the ECB simply using that monetary key for the things that are the ECB's. But the fact that the Commission would then use it as a sort of proxy for distribution within the European Union is, of course, unfortunate and potentially dangerous. It doesn't make any sense why it should be. I believe that the cabinet has carried out the motion properly; Mr Van Rooijen, of course, asked for it. A lot has happened since then. So much has happened that, frankly, I cannot imagine that this will still be a core part of the discussion that is still taking place on the euro area instrument. I will not repeat everything we have discussed this morning or this afternoon, I must say, in the AA. At that time, we discussed in detail the stabilisation mechanism and the budgetary instrument. But let me say a few things about it, because some Members have asked for it. Mr Van Rooijen is right: this would have been an unfortunate and undesirable diet for the Netherlands for any instrument. My perception is that there really isn't going to be, but it's gonna keep an eye on it. I think I have answered the most important question of the VVD. I had an extensive exchange of views with Mrs De Vries on this subject this afternoon. It is a real gain for the Netherlands that the stabilisation debate is no longer on the agenda, but that is not a guarantee that the discussion on the budgetary instrument will end well. I do see opportunities there. I also see how this can be an improvement in the current position, where we, as the Netherlands, are critical of the effectiveness of the cohesion funds and also of the lack of conditionality. So it can make a very good profit. It could also be that you are being messed up in something that is no improvement at all. So it's just a matter of real attention. I would very much like to say to Mr Van der Linde that we will continue to do our utmost to do so. But I do not think it is likely that the ECB is still part of this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt made the right point that these are special monetary times. I had a taste of a reproach on Mr Van Dijck about understatements, but this also seemed to me to be an understatement by Mr Omtzigt, and I can very much endorse that. Mr Omtzigt also asked me what I thought of the test balloon about making cash disappear. Of course, the government's view on this is clear, at least within the country. We have always said that we are not in favour of abolishing cash. It is a much broader discussion, but I have often exchanged with the Chamber that we find it undesirable because of the access that many people want to continue to have, and rightly so, to cash, but also because you could introduce an additional risk of stability. Because if something goes wrong or goes temporarily wrong with electronic money, everyone will immediately look at cash as an alternative. Mr Omtzigt also made a number of comments on the ECB's mandate. My understanding of what he said was that he preached above all that he wanted to give the Chamber himself another assignment. Of course, that's him and the Chamber completely free. What I myself wanted to say about this is that the question of whether the ECB has operated within its mandate has been assessed by the Court, I believe in the so-called Gauweiler case. That is where the Court concluded that until then the ECB was within the terms of reference as laid down. But if Mr Omtzigt comes to a motion, that is further to the Chamber. I suspect that he will also believe that things have happened since then and that this might also give ammunition to get this legal question answered again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u12	Maybe we can ask the Omtzigt himself, because I see he's trying to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u13	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll be right there with that motion. The interruption is at a slightly different point. In fact, I wanted to hear from the government not only how it is looking at a legal mandate, but also whether it sees a way out which will enable the European Central Bank to get out of the current policy, get rid of that huge pile of government loans and bonds and normalize it and what that would look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u14	There were two questions which Mr Omtzigt ended up with and he also asked this question. In itself, the answer may well lie in the reflection that Mr Omtzigt also told us of course. It is also conceivable that in the end the government bonds purchased by the ECB will simply go away, that the ECB will receive money for that period and then get the principal back. Mr Omtzigt is right in saying that, if all this goes well, this could oddly lead to the situation that the ECB has made substantial money from it, especially from the pieces purchased with a significant spread. So I think there is a way out. At the same time, I understand Mr Omtzigt when he says that it is now a very large amount of money. In any case, there are different views, including in the Dutch political arena, about effectiveness. So the way out is there. I think I wanted to report it, too. Mr Omtzigt also knows that, especially with Mr Van Rooijen this afternoon, I have been able to see that this is going on for me, because at the same time I do not want to undermine the independence of the central bank directly or indirectly. I just wouldn't think that was pure. The PVV Group, through Mr Van Dijck, asked another question about new taxes. I understand that question, of course, but he will recognize that taxes go with unanimity. In this afternoon's debate, the Secretary of State was asked once again to confirm that we are in favour of it remaining so, and he has confirmed that. And in general terms, the cabinet is in favour of the GNI being the basis for the EU budget, because it is a straightforward, straightforward means that is transparent and that also has a high degree of transparency, clarity and... I think you can say so too... honesty. That seems to me to be the answer to Mr Van Dijck's question. In my view, Mr Van Dijck's last question was mainly an encouragement. He thinks I'm too diplomatic. I will check again with some of my international colleagues how they feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. We shall proceed immediately to the second term, starting with the second term of office. I give the floor again to Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Let's leave it in the middle whether the First or the Second Chamber is an upgrade or not. We've been in it together, and we'll meet here. Mr. Chairman. I have not yet fully heard the answer to the question whether the Minister has given any reason to believe that the Commission has now completely abandoned the suggestion that Member States should ask for a contribution through that interest income from the central banks. Finally, I would like to mention a report of the European Parliament's Parliamentary Research Service of July 2018. On page 9 at the bottom of this July report, therefore, from a short time ago, it is still stated that the EISF is in fact considering financing the interest rate subsidy required for that EISF by "contributions from euro area Member States equivalent to a share of central bank monetary income (seigniorage). In other words, even in July, after it had actually been removed from the MFF in May, the European Parliament's research group found that it is still there. So I'm still making sure that this just hangs in the air, even though things happened after that. Can it not be there suddenly after a eurotop with a hammer rag at once? I'd like to hear from the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u17	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck. He's dropping his second term. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u18	Mr. Chairman. The more money it is and the more important the debate is, the shorter it is and the fewer people there are in the public gallery. You are laughing, I say to the Minister of Finance, but very little time has been devoted here, for example, to the amendment on the removal of gas from homes, to mention something very radical. There are sometimes less debates here, I might add. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I am glad that he still sees a way out of these particular monetary times. We'll see it over time. I hope he's right and I'm not. I am glad that he also indicates that we are opposed to abolishing ordinary money. That is indeed very important for stability when something goes wrong with apps. But it's also just a right of people to keep money. Mr. Chairman. As promised, I'll file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Central Bank (ECB) has deployed large-scale monetary instruments in recent years, with major implications for savers, pensioners and economic components;]] [[noting that the Treaties lay down the frameworks for the ECB's mandate, but that there is no clear standard test;]] [[calls on the President of the European Parliament to seek an opinion on the ECB's mandate, on whom to determine whether the ECB is outside the limit of that mandate and on how that mandate can be clarified,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1416]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u19	Mr President, thank you. In order to remove all misunderstandings, I say: I would of course not choose between one of the houses of the States-General in any way. I think the upgrade was mainly about the spot on the list. Because Mr Van Rooijen is going to place one on the list of 50PLUS. As far as a misunderstanding would have occurred, I cannot possibly want it from this place and certainly not from this place. So I congratulate Mr Van Rooijen on his rise, at least on the number he has on the list. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen asked whether they have now given up completely. Yes and no. I think Mr Van Rooijen recognizes the following. You think you've buried certain proposals before, I've sometimes put the term "zombie proposals" in my mouth and you're done with them, and suddenly they get up and walk around again. Of course, I can't rule that out. But I do have the impression that this is really one of the less likely variants that come on the table seriously again, also given all the hooks and eyes that Mr Van Rooijen has rightly noticed. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt referred to my laugh. That was a laugh of recognition. Not just the debates here, but I would not rule out the fact that the Council of Ministers sometimes does so. Mr. Chairman. So much for my defiances. The motion, in part No. 1416 was addressed to the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u20	Thank you. I see there is an interruption by Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u21	The Minister of State is, of course, quite right to do so, but at least I am of the opinion or opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u22	I'll just have to read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u23	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u24	That may also be written as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u25	Yeah, let me do that, because I didn't refer to the judgment for nothing. I would just like to look very carefully at what might have changed in order to argue legally that you should want to supplement the judgment or at least... I was distracted, Mr. Chairman. I notice that some people are eager to get rid of the motion. I'm going to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u26	May I ask the Minister if this will be before the vote next Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u27	I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u28	I understand from Mr Omtzig that, if that does not work, the motion will be held. That is good; that information will then follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u29	I thank the Minister for the answer in second term. He says it's yes and no; you never know for sure. I assume that the Minister will say this to us at the Ecofin meetings, too, should there be a tilting moment, inform us about it in good time and also give his opinion on it and become more combative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u30	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u31	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term. That is what brought us to the end of the debate. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members and I thank the staff and any listeners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-15.u32	The vote on the motion tabled will take place on Tuesday. Before then, we'll get another letter from the minister. That concludes the meeting.
