ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Peters, on behalf of the CDA, for his question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would also like to welcome, on the increase in the number of homeless people. I call Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Salvation Army sent a letter of fire to the House of Representatives with a clear and also very serious message. The number of homeless people in the Netherlands continues to grow. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, the number of homeless people has doubled to over 40,000 in ten years. Mr. Chairman. The people of the Salvation Army offer shelter to people without a roof over their heads. For the work they do, I have enormous respect. But the shelters are overcrowded, and there's less and less time and money, and more people will end up in the street. That is the harsh reality. A house is more than shelter from rain and wind. It is a home and provides safety and security. Those who lose their homes due to payment problems, for example, lose part of themselves. I am addressing my questions to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, because debt is one of the causes of this increase. Home expulsions due to debts are harmful, expensive and useless. In fact, I would prefer a ban on expulsions around that theme. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to this. Is the increase in the number of homeless actually a priority? And more importantly, what does she and her colleagues in this cabinet intend to do to prevent debt-related expulsions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Peters for his questions which come straight from the heart and are, indeed, very recognizable when it comes to the harrowingness of the situation that you are faced with when you may be placed out of the house. And this is still happening in some 3,000 households a year, partly because of other causes than, for example, debt problems and late payments, but certainly for a very large part as a result. We had an exchange of views on this during the recent general consultation. We will do the same with the continuation, and that is also necessary. I note with satisfaction that the number of house evictions is falling for the fifth year in a row. That is a positive trend, and I think we should continue it. Of course, we cannot do this alone; we do this with the cabinet and with social partners in broad terms. Housing corporations are an important partner in this. Furthermore, I refer to municipalities. I am also talking about this with colleagues. But at least what I do about it myself from the broad debt approach is to adapt the Municipal Debt Assistance Act, so housing corporations can exchange data on late payments with municipalities and municipalities early on and then make an offer for assistance. We have also seen that the earlier you are with an offer for assistance, the less a situation needs to escalate. That's, I think, where we can find each other. That's preventing home evictions as early as possible in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. I still have a few comments. Firstly, housing corporations are pretty much the last to know if a person has payment problems, because losing a home is the last thing a person would want. So to catch that under the early warning framework, maybe it's not exactly the right way to go. But how does the Secretary of State see my statement that we should just ban it? Putting it out for debt is simply extremely expensive and socially damaging. It's harmful to those people. And if you have taken them up for a lot of money in the social care facility where there's actually no place, then you have to put them back in a home similar to the one where they've just been evicted. I find that very unwise on all sides. So my clear follow-up question is: why not ban? This can possibly be done with two signed papers in hand, saying: "Here is an eviction. I'm going to evict you tomorrow, unless you sign here." For example, this can be a curate as a limit. How does the Secretary of State see that, so just a slightly more drastic approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	It might seem like an option to say: we forbid it. At the same time, living costs money and the rent has to be paid. In any case, housing corporations are not the only party to send signals to the municipalities in the adaptation of the Wgs, on which I would like to exchange views with your Chamber shortly. They're one of the partners, but they're an important one. I would also like to say, also from experience I had recently during a work visit, that a threatening expulsion, however difficult, can also offer an opportunity. For someone who no longer responds, who no longer sees the forest through the trees and is really deep in the well, it may be a last chance to get the foot between the door and go to aid. For that such a threat, however distressing, is sometimes necessary, as employees of the housing corporations told me. What really works is talking to each other as early as possible in the process. We are now going to settle that by law with a mandatory offer by the municipality if someone is lagging behind. I think that is a really effective instrument in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	I understand very well, I say to the Secretary of State, that a ban is not going to work. Then people can start thinking: I don't have to pay, because they won't kick me out anyway. I understand. I also understand that with your buckets of old paper you literally don't react; I've also seen them in people who have bills in them. So I can also follow that the threat of eviction could be a wake-up call. This is what I would like to see, and I am curious to see how you feel about it. "Here's a signed removal order. I'm gonna kick you out of the house tomorrow, but you can still get out with a curatele. So you accept help with this. If you don't, there's no other way." How does the Secretary of State see that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	"This threatens to happen; accept aid"; that is the whole port of the amendment of the law that hopefully will soon be in this house. I would like to say two things about 'accept help or you will be put under curate'. A removal is really a threatening current situation. By the way, there is already an obligation for a municipality that knows that someone is in such a threatening situation to enter into conversation within three days. But an undercurate thesis has a lot of consequences, including losing control of your children. So it's really a horse medicine. I would like to see, for example, in general consultation, how we can continue the trend that is now taking place, with the number of expulsions actually falling, including the instruments that are now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	I got it. I don't agree, but I got it. I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Peters. Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	The money's messing with the plinths. The winnings are blowing through the roof. At the same time, the number of homeless has doubled to 40,000 in recent years. I assume the government finds that a disgrace. I think these people need a house as soon as possible. That's the most important thing. That also came out in the media last week. Now there are urgent arrangements, for example for status holders. Does the Secretary of State agree that homeless people should be given urgency to obtain a home, because this situation needs to be reversed as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	It is a complex problem, on which several colleagues and I are working together. When it comes to homeless people, the lead lies with colleague Blokhuis. Next week there will be the VWS budget, which can be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u14	This week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u15	This week. Of course, there is also the housing portfolio of the Home Secretary. From Social Affairs, I think it is important to make my contribution from the broad debt approach, from the poverty portfolio, because it is extremely poignant when you come into such a situation. We want to prevent that. I'm also thinking along with the colleagues. There are also opportunities for municipalities to apply customisation, for example when people are dealing with social schemes. I have recently informed the municipalities separately about this, because not all municipalities make use of these opportunities. So we want to do our part in resolving this problem, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u16	What about the urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u17	Oh, yes, the urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u18	I meant, also just by the way I said it, to radiate urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u19	I'm going back to the Secretary of State's wallet. If people are in danger of being evicted, they could be taken care of by family, friends or others, but if they have benefits, the so-called cost-sharing discount soon threatens. The reason for this is that if more people are living in one house, the benefit can also be reduced. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a critical look at this cost sharing standard as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u20	We have had a regular exchange of views on this subject in debates. It is good to emphasise here that municipalities have the possibility not to apply that cost sharing standard in situations where someone is temporarily staying with a beneficiary, when it comes to a crisis situation or people at risk of becoming homeless. Municipalities now have the opportunity to act on it by establishing that it is a temporary stay. They can then make an exception and not declare the cost-sharing standard applicable. Moreover, young people under 21 years of age and students are already excluded from the cost sharing standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u21	To limit it to the Social Affairs section: because this problem is so complex and complex and has so many sides, I am nevertheless in favour of an integrated approach. It is very nice that you state that you are in agreement with the Secretary of State on this matter. My question is actually about the vulnerable in society. I was very shocked when I found out on a working visit in Rotterdam that a lot of mothers or pregnant women go through door-to-door bankinghops and do not actually receive proper care. Sometimes they should be able to go to night care. I would like to ask you whether you are aware of this, particularly for the young people and the students who, as it were, walk from bank to bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mrs Diertens' question shows how complex the situation can be, and how many underlying policy questions are involved and how many ministries are involved. The worst thing that could happen is that we all point at each other. I think it is very good that the cabinet has opted for a coordinated approach. As I am the coordinator of debt, Mr Blokhuis is that of social care and homeless people. We also sit at his table and all do our part, because it would be very bad if walls of ministries were to prevent problems from being solved. That's what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u23	I would like to underline Mr Peters' speech. Last Saturday, in the Algemeen Dagblad, there was a beautiful piece about the municipality of Utrecht, which hired an experienced expert to guide people with poverty and debt. It indicated that if families are thrown out of debt of €6,000, the social costs are many times higher. There is now a programme about which Secretary of State Blokhuis was enthusiastic: first give people the key to a house and then solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u24	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u25	The question is whether this Secretary of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u26	I see at this moment that, if you look wide, you do indeed often have a lot more tools to solve people's problems. This requires cooperation. Many of these subjects are of course on the board of municipalities. We also increasingly see that municipalities really look at all these facets. I continue to stress the importance of early warning, for example. The sooner you get into the process, the faster you can help people, especially since we know that sometimes it can take up to four or five years for people to call in debt and backlogs, which are often up to tens of thousands of euros. We work in this together with municipalities. They're also in the agreement package we made. Soon we'll talk to congregations again. It is precisely by sharing good examples among themselves that people can be helped in this way in many more places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u27	I don't think you can call yourself a prosperous country if the number of homeless in the Netherlands increases. That's a really bizarre thing to do in 2019. The profits are huge. Mr Peters has already asked the Secretary of State, but I ask him again. We know that, at the moment when people are thrown out of their homes because of debt problems, the problems are only getting bigger. You don't have an address anymore. The city can't find you anymore. You no longer have the right to social security because you no longer have a postal address. Can we really not go to a ban on expulsion to help people and make sure they don't get into any more trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u28	You have to pay rent and you have to pay it because you live and it costs money. It's an explicit signal, a cry for help when you can't pay your living expenses anymore. With sec issuing a ban you do not solve those problems, because they often go far beyond just living. It's important that you start talking to each other early in the process. I think we've seen some good examples of that. However, only a ban on expulsions is not the solution, as far as I am concerned, to sit down early and people do offer assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
