ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Law on more room for new schools, Room 35050. I would like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for discussing today the long-awaited bill More room for new schools, a large and very important bill that the minister and his officials have been working on for a long time. In all honesty, I can also say that it has been a great deal of concern to us lately, just like many educational organisations and other experts, as well as the many letters we received and also the interesting hearing we organised a while ago. It is a bill with a lot of good elements, but also with great risks. Let me be honest with you. We are going into this debate very openly. GroenLinks' support depends on whether our main concern, or the proposal increases the division in education, can be removed. We have a number of questions for the Minister. We also have a number of concrete amendments that we have circulated per amendment, often together with other parties. Of course, I also know that in 1993 a proposal from GroenLinks, among others, was the basis of this legislative proposal. That was 25 years ago. In the meantime, education has changed enormously and this proposal has also had the necessary adjustments. It was nice that the explanatory memorandum to this bill described the history quite extensively and was also very clear, because that gave us the necessary background information. The good points. My group believes that it is desirable that quality standards should be taken into account when setting up a school. It is also good that it is proposed to look at the real interest of parents when starting a new school. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are moving away from the current system of working with the supposed interest in a direction to be eligible for funding. GroenLinks is also in favour of letting go of the concept of direction when starting schools. It is an outdated system which, of course, has its origins in the bulwark and which, as far as we are concerned, is no longer of this time. This bill gives more space and choice to parents and students. We think that's a good thing. However, my group fears the consequences of this proposal. It turns out, for example, that highly-educated parents often opt for innovative educational concepts. For this reason, I would like to say that this proposal can have a major impact on segregation. At least we have to focus on that. The Education Inspectorate also pointed out this in the last State of Education. In addition, the inspection also notes that groups of pupils are already less likely to meet each other, because segregation, the division in education, is growing. The inspection writes: "If nothing is done about these hair cracks, they deepen." The Education Council also warns about the division and several scientists and educational organisations have also warned about this. When we organized the hearing, we could hear it and read it in the documents they sent us. The division in education is already a problem. As I said before, we fear that this bill could increase this division. That is why we have made a number of proposals and also discussed them extensively in the written round. The Minister's answer to that was that countering segregation is simply not what this bill is about. I understand the answer, but we think it is a short turn of events, because a bill cannot be intended to counter segregation. But if an undesirable side effect of the proposal is that it increases the division, then of course we must avoid it. We only find an evaluation after five years of the law to see what the effects are not good enough. We have also made a proposal for this. GroenLinks stands for a society in which we meet, a society where children come into contact with other cultures and other communities and thus learn to understand each other and live together. We stand for a society in which we live together and not side by side. Of course we hope that parents will give their children those values, but of course we are not talking about education here. However, we are talking about education, and that is why I am underlining this point here. Because when it comes to GroenLinks, the school is exactly the place where kids have to meet. It's precisely in school that children learn to play together and understand each other in that way. That is why we are in favour of children from different backgrounds going to school together. That is why I am making a number of proposals on behalf of GroenLinks to prevent the possible negative effects of this bill of further division in society. Firstly, when a school is set up, we also want to see what this school is doing to prevent further division. My group is well aware that, in order to really combat the division, public commitment is needed, but a school can of course also take its own measures. We are tabling an amendment on this together with the SP and the PvdA. This amendment provides that the inspection not only looks at the adequacy requirements, but also at what the school is going to do to prevent division. That can of course be anything, such as matters relating to the intended location or the recruitment policy. But cooperation with so-called friendship schools with another population can also contribute to this. The inspection may then include such measures as may be taken by a school in the advice it will give to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u4	Which amendment exactly are you referring to? What number does it have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u5	It is the amendment in part No. 20
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u6	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u7	We are also trying to arrange for the Minister to keep a finger on the pulse and evaluate the effects of the bill on segregation, among other things. I have just said that he wants to do so after five years, but my group is also looking forward to the first effects of this bill, and we would like to evaluate it a little earlier. It is also important that when you see the real effects of a proposal, you compare those effects in the longer term. We are therefore tabling an amendment on this. Because by evaluating at different times, and also by looking at the long-term effects, you not only see the short-term developments, you see not only the photo, but also the film. This comparison is often made and I think it is very appropriate here. I also have a question about this evaluation. Because if the evaluation shows that this bill has negative effects and leads to more inequality of opportunity and more segregation, what can the Minister do next? Then how can he intervene? It would be nice if he would go into that in his reply. Mr. Chairman. Another risk of this bill is that it will strengthen competition between schools. We know that many places in this country are shrinking, so schools are slowly getting fewer pupils and some schools are in danger of disappearing. If it gets easier to start new schools, we run the risk of such a new school picking students away from an existing school, even if such a school is just a good school. That seems to us to be an undesirable side effect. Moreover, schools can lose even more money and energy to recruiting new students. That would also be a waste of educational money. Does the Minister also see this and, if so, how does he intend to prevent it? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know what this bill means for commercialising education. For example, can more investors join? The Minister informed us, also in the answers to our written questions, that school boards should not be profit-making. But what about holding structures, for example? Is it possible, for example, in theory that the founders of a school are not profit-making, but that they can buy teaching material or other items from another e.g., which then belongs to the same holding company? Could that be possible? And is it true that this bill makes such a construction easier? Does the Minister see possibilities to check whether applicants have direct or indirect commercial interests? Is he prepared to keep a close eye on developments in this area? And is he willing to inform the Chamber if it turns out that there are suddenly many more commercial providers? So can we know and, if so, can the Minister inform the Chamber about this? Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the Minister wants to increase the freedom of choice. That is very clear in the explanatory statement of the proposal and we also see it in the concrete plans. But real freedom of choice also includes the right to be accepted at any school. My party is already a thorn in the eye that schools may refuse children because of, for example, a belief. We believe that if parents or children opt for a particular school, the school should accept that child, even if that choice is not always obvious at first sight. Of course, I do know that excluding children does not happen on the assembly line, but that schools now have the opportunity to refuse students can have an impact on the choice of schools. Moreover, it is a matter of principle for my group. We believe that schools, which are all paid by us, should simply allow everyone. Also important is the point I made earlier: we think that children with different backgrounds go to school together so that they can learn with each other. I think that several colleagues will come back to this point. Mr. Chairman. This bill also allows the two existing national partnerships to refuse schools. Can the Minister explain why he wants that? Why is he in favour of cooperation being allowed to refuse schools in the future? My group considers this to be a step in the wrong direction and back in time. That is why we are considering an amendment, but I would first like the Minister to clarify this point a little more. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, exclusion is not the solution, not for pupils, not for schools, not for teachers. That is why we also support an amendment by the SP to ensure that teachers cannot be refused, for example, on religious grounds. In his contribution, Mr Kwint will undoubtedly go into that further. Mr. Chairman. This bill makes it easy to establish schools with innovative educational concepts. This can be very interesting and very progressive, but unfortunately not every innovative educational concept is equal progress. Often there are a lot of ideas about how to design education, without scientific evidence that it works. I would like to ask the Minister if there are any possibilities for testing the effectiveness of new educational concepts. What can we do to better guide or guide the development of new educational concepts and ensure that they are effective and scientific? I also ask the Minister whether we know whether there is always a scientific basis for existing educational concepts. Or can't that just be investigated? I think this is an option. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment we are tabling together with the SP and the PvdA on public schools in new buildings. As has been said, my group welcomes the fact that this proposal regulates the measurement of parents' real interest. But in a neighborhood that is still to be built, it is of course difficult because no one lives there yet. That is why we want the first school to be made public in areas that are still to be built. Every child is admitted to this public school, regardless of his or her beliefs or religion. And of course, if, over time, it appears that there is sufficient interest in another initiative, the school can still be converted. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to location and housing, customization is important. That is why we propose that municipalities should be given advisory rights when a new school is set up. We also have an amendment on that. Municipalities are about housing and have a good view on how a new school fits best in the relevant municipality. Local authorities also have an important role to play in countering segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u8	I would like to come back to the previous phrase, that in a new building district the first school to be founded must be a public school. Does Mr Westerveld mean to say that a group of parents who meet all the conditions and want to establish a school there should not be allowed until a public school has been established? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u9	If you want to put a school in a neighborhood that still has to be built, you don't immediately know what the parents want in that new building district because no one lives there yet. That is why we propose to start with a public school and possibly convert it when people live in that district and the people in that district indicate that they want a school with a certain direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u10	Apart from the even more philosophical question of whether a public school does not represent a particular direction, I would ask you whether I understand correctly that you deny a group of parents who, or a school board that intends to establish a new school somewhere in the new district, meeting all the legal criteria and all the requirements of this law, the right to start a school there initially because there is a public school first. Is that really what you mean and what you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u11	Yeah, that's what we say. We have also tabled an amendment which I believe has been circulated. With this we arrange for a school to be founded in a new building district to be first and foremost made public. That's the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u12	The amendment in part No. 18?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u13	Yeah, that's right. That is the amendment to item No. 18. In future, Mr President, I will put the figures more clearly in my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u14	With all due respect to my colleague, this is pure segregation, isn't it? This is pure discrimination, isn't it? This is denying parents the right to take initiatives, isn't it? This is contrary to our dual education system, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u15	No, this isn't segregation or discrimination. As soon as it becomes clear that a group of parents in that district are sufficiently interested in a different direction, this school can be converted. This amendment merely says that a school in a new district to be built will initially become public. It is therefore difficult to measure the real interest of parents, since they do not yet live there. And the school can always be converted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u16	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u17	But that is a bit contrary to themselves, because those parents have not yet been able to indicate that they prefer a public school. That is why, in our system, it is true that the initiatives are mainly implemented in society itself. Then it can't be that the public school gets the exclusive right to be the first school to start in a new neighborhood? Isn't that a real approach without other parents, without failing people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u18	From the background of Mr Bishop, I understand this question, but the difference with a public school is, of course, that all children are welcome. That is why we are first of all saying that we want to turn a new school into a public school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u19	I also think it is a very wonderful proposal, because it deprives parents of the right to make their own choices, while that right exists. And I think GroenLinks still doesn't want to get rid of that one hundred percent. Let me take it away from Mr Bishop's background and perhaps make it clear to Mrs Westerveld. We have a school that is public, while in the district it appears that there is a need for a free school with its very own educational and teaching system. Has Mrs Westerveld, for example, considered what will happen to the staff who have not been trained to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u20	The question of what will happen after a few years is a very different one, because then people live in that neighborhood. That's when you can convert that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u21	My point is that Mrs Westerveld quite simply assumes that you can convert a school. But a school is not just a building; there are also teachers, who are the identity carriers of the school's vision. Mrs Westerveld also knows something about teachers. If the parents suddenly need a completely different teaching and teaching method, does it not make sense that teachers who are not trained at all will suddenly, according to this didactics, give the education they turn out to be interested in after three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u22	I understand Mr Rog's question, but we are concerned that you do not know what kind of school people who are going to live in a new neighborhood to be built will need. So we don't know if people who are going to live in that neighborhood prefer a free school or a school with a different educational concept. That is why we propose that a public school should always be set up. Of course, there may be a school with a special concept in that district, but there are people living in that district who do not need it. That is what this amendment is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u23	Finally, Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u24	I think that the amendment has some serious implications. In essence, it puts parents who want to take initiative themselves at a disadvantage and forces them into the straitjacket that GroenLinks wants to impose on parents: public education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u26	I think words like "choice body" go a long way. I think I have made it clear why we have tabled this amendment. Mr. Chairman. I had remained in the role of the municipalities in countering segregation. Take the location. If parents have an innovative school there we have wanted to start it again in a certain neighborhood, for example in an expensive neighborhood, then that can be undesirable, because especially children of highly educated parents can go there. Maybe the city would rather see it differently. Maybe the city says, "Put that school in another location." Municipalities have a lot of eyes on this. That is why we are calling for the right of local authorities to provide advice on the establishment of new schools. This has to do with the task of municipalities to counter segregation and the view they have on their city. We have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u27	That is the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u28	Yes. Once again, I will put the amendments and numbers more clearly in the text next time we have so many amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u29	We also keep a bit of a record; that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal also introduces a quality test for new schools, with initiators, among other things, having to demonstrate how they are going to comply with the citizenship mandate. My group welcomes this in principle. However, we are curious to see exactly what schools need to prove. For example, can they work with certain teaching methods that go against the basic values of the democratic rule of law? And what does the Minister think about yesterday's message from NRC and Nieuwsuur about the lesson book Help! I'm growing up saying that boys and girls shouldn't look at each other because this is like adultery, and that Allah hates homosexuality? We can rightly be angry that this kind of thing is being taught at our school to young children. I would like to ask the Minister if he knows any other textbooks in which such matters are preached, and what he thinks of the inspection's statement that this would not go against the basic values of the democratic rule of law. Could he perhaps tell us a little bit more about this now, including in the context of the legislative proposal? I am well aware that Mr Van Meenen has requested a separate debate on this at the time of the regulation, but perhaps the Minister can say something about it today. Mr. Chairman. I said at the beginning that we are opening this debate. For my group, the Minister's response is very important. As I said earlier to the Minister and to my fellow Members, it is really a big question for us whether this bill really creates more freedom in the creation of new schools and what it does with the division. For if there is anything that we think is important, it is that this division, which is already beginning in education, will not in any case be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u31	I have waited until the end of the speech, because the speech focuses on the possible segregation in education. I would like to think along with Mrs Westerveld, but for us the glass is also half full. You are assuming that this bill may be oppressive for education, in the sense that parents may be setting up schools in their own bubble. I see this bill in such a way that schools are given more opportunity to place, against that segregation you are talking about, for example, a beautiful location on the border of a rich and a poor part of a municipality, so that these children can see each other. This bill also helps to make that easier. Do you see that, or do you really focus on the possibility that parents only try to find each other in a small company?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u32	I understand this question, but as I said at the beginning, we are still very open in this debate. So I really want an answer from the Minister on whether or not this bill enlarges the division. Moreover, the word "bubble" does not come from myself; among other things, the education inspection has warned against it. With us the glass is not necessarily half empty or half full. We are really waiting for this debate. In addition, our main concern is the possible segregation. If this bill can help to reduce that division, we are very pleased with it. We have, of course, already asked a number of questions about this in the written consultation. I just hope that, above all, the discussion and debate we have here with the Minister can help us even further towards an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u33	In our view, that field of schools in a municipality is very rigid and rigid at the moment. They're stuck. You can choose a certain school. Maybe the school you'd like most and where children meet more often on all kinds of grounds isn't there. In my view, this bill makes it easier to guarantee high-quality schools in front of it. In my view, therefore, this law only offers opportunities, including as regards countering segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u34	I'd love that. That is why I am very curious as to how the Minister will respond to our questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the risk that I will talk through Mr Van Meenen: this law has been in the making for years. Delays, changes and wishes of a new cabinet ensured that the law was always not discussed in the Chamber. Moreover, I think it is perfectly understandable that when a cabinet changes, coalition parties also want to exert their own influence on such a large far-reaching law. But today it is finally time: we are discussing the Law more room for new schools. The first question is, of course, what is the problem that this law is trying to solve? When you take the law, you see that the purpose of this law is to make it possible to offer parents as much space as possible in their search for a school that fits their beliefs. This raises an interesting ideological, almost philosophical question, because where many here often rightly point out the important distinction between education and education and warns against the tendency to place all kinds of problems on the table but with the teacher, the question is, of course, to what extent schools have the task of passing on the standards and values of parents. That question has been skipped in this bill, which is very relevant. Because only if the answer to this question is "yes, we think education should do that" and if politics thinks that a teacher should not only help with mathematics, language and citizenship but also with conveying parents' beliefs, this step is a logical one. So is that the opinion of this cabinet? How does the cabinet view this relationship between education and education and how did the cabinet weigh up this relationship to this final bill? There are very nice sides to this bill. There's no other way, because it's fucking fat. For example, part of the outdated thinking of direction in setting up the school is deleted. That discussion, as Mrs Westerveld said, is certainly not yesterday. As early as 1996 when I was the majority of the year 11............................................................................................................................................................ In other words, why, for example, is carmavadic Hinduism a recognised and rooted belief in the Netherlands on the basis of which a school which we all paid for can be founded? I believe that it never came of it in practice, but it can be done but not Marxism, for example? A small historical trip: only after a major strike by the Carmavadian-Hinduist parents did Minister Jo Ritzen finally allow, if I am not mistaken, a supervisor at LVO nowadays to add this direction to the list of recognized directions. So action works. Back to the recognition of denominations and beliefs. This bill makes it possible, for example, if after my political career I feel the urge to set up a school dome for Marxist primary education, I will do so. Under the old system, too, I think it can be defended that this movement within Dutch society has left at least as many traces as karmavid Hinduism. Yet not everything is levelled. Certain privileges that come with the old recognised social directions, remain. For example, at our lecture, the still to be established umbrella for basic Marxist education cannot call on the transport of pupils to drive pupils from far and wide to that particular dome school. If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. According to the Cabinet, are there any other differences in privileges that still exist? What about teacher policy, for example? Last year we saw that a teacher from a reformatorian school could be fired because he was performing in his spare time. Just last week we saw a school director in the programme BOOS saying that you can be gay at his school, but can't be gay. We can have a wide-ranging difference of opinion. We are doing so, and we are often going to underline this in the debates that are still going on. However, are these statements not already against the law? This kind of talk does not satisfy the common basis that we do think you should give to all pupils in the Netherlands? Does the Minister share the view that these statements should not be made in the first place? In particular, I would like the answer to the question of whether they are allowed under the law. Will new schools be allowed to refuse teachers because they do not sufficiently endorse the school's basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u37	I am a little confused by what Mr Kwint said about Rule 23. He comes up with examples of which he says: according to the law, they are not allowed already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u38	That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u39	So he's hoping it's true. In the Netherlands, the Constitution gives citizens freedoms to protect them from the powerful government. We limit these freedoms, we set limits to them, through the law. In all kinds of education legislation, we have arranged that. We must not hate sow, we must not preach violence, and we must not call for violence. So that legislation is there. Then what's the problem Mr. Kwint still sees? I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u40	I'm a little surprised you don't see the problem. I will look at what we saw last night at Nieuwsuur, for example. I'm asking the following question here. I see talk, and I think it's really bad for a student in a school to hear his school director on television saying, "You can be gay at my school, but you can't be gay." I think you're living the life of a young homosexual, who is already in a difficult situation and lives in an environment that occasionally makes it as neutral as possible, I'm having trouble giving it a place, a lot more complicated than we should all want. Then I wonder if a school director can do that. That was also the question I asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u41	Exactly. And it gives me as much abdominal pain as it gives Mr. Kwint abdominal pain. But we have legislation to set limits. I do not see what Mr Kwint's problem is with the Constitution. 'Cause he's talking about wanting to change things in there. But we are setting limits here through legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u42	I do not think I have said at all that I want to abolish Article 23. I certainly think that there are a lot of things that need to change in the explanation and in the underlying legislation. Then you're talking about an acceptance obligation and then you're talking about accepting the background of different teachers. And as far as I'm concerned, you're also talking about taking part in the fight against segregation. There are a lot of things I think are: the current interpretation of Article 23 is no longer of this time. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u43	Carry on, because you still have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u44	I read this morning that we can also welcome the VVD on our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u45	You have 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u46	I've got a few more minutes, yeah. So I count my blessings, I say to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u47	I am a little late, but what I understand from your speech is that you are actually saying that Article 23 is very good and that you are actually going to stop your fight with your globalist colleagues from the CDA and your left-wing colleagues from GroenLinks and the PvdA. I'm glad, but I'm a little surprised about that. Because Article 23 is actually a good thing, you think, but you just want to tighten up here and there, which may be very reasonable. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u48	No, although I think it would be a good idea if you could think with me about these reasonable adjustments. We have seen over the last few years that the discussion on Article 23 will never go further. I like that discussion; I like that. We need some more seats for it, but if you were to ask me "gosh, SP, why don't you write a new education system" you can assume that we are not going to include Article 23 again. But if I want to solve the problems of segregation, a lack of acceptance of new students and the expulsion of teachers, then I prefer to do so now, so without any constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u49	I understand that, and I also understand your beautiful dream about if you ever get a majority in this country, but that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u50	I have a moment, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u51	For the time being, therefore, Article 23 remains the subject of your further reflection on the Constitution and the freedom of education. I got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u52	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u53	That you are taking a little distance from this fierce struggle between you and your colleagues, which I have been experiencing for a few Cabinets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u54	No, I'm not. For me, the outcome is not at all certain. It may be done under Article 23 and it may be done under Article 23. I'm just noticing it's taking a lot of time. Mr. Beertema says we're not gonna be able to get so many seats. Well, constitutional changes weren't made from today to tomorrow either, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u56	I've got a little time. I will return to the dome I mentioned earlier. Can the dome for Marxist secondary education refuse an economic teacher who believes in the free market? Or do we suddenly find it very strange to refuse a lecturer based on his beliefs? Can the same school also refuse a child whose parents do not agree with the objectives of the school? Because when I take the law, I read in chapter 10.1 that the directional concerns as they already exist still remain untouched. I interpret that as: you may continue to distinguish between teachers and between students on the basis of belief in life. We, as SP, are very opposed to that. We have put forward a number of proposals for this, which we are going to discuss today. But if you really think this is an important achievement, you have to be consistent. Then all democratic schools, Marxist schools, holistic schools and alevite schools must, I don't care what else is going to be added, make a distinction in the same way as the existing special schools. If you think this is an important achievement, at least. Is that the case now? I'm not reading it yet. And are we going to explain in the law that certain beliefs of life are entitled to a special treatment and the corresponding privileges and others are not? What right does the cabinet have to do that? We don't want that. New schools should be generally accessible to pupils. We'll all pay for that school; then you can go there together, until the school is full, because then you have a logistics problem. The same applies to teachers. They're supposed to be common names. You don't refuse students or teachers based on their beliefs. Education that has been paid for by all of us, I have already said it must be accessible to all of us. The alternative is what this law is about to do. This is something the SP is concerned about: to establish their own school in the parents' bubble. The accessibility of each school for each student has been the subject for many, many years. For years there has been an initiative law of four parties, GroenLinks, SP, PvdA, D66, to settle that. I believe that this goes back to the days of Mrs Hammer, who has been out of the Chamber for some time. Every time that happens, it gets hurt because of what I will call very neutral the cabinet composition. So now there's this one party of those four in the cabinet that's been on the fritz. I don't think I'm revealing anything secret. In our view, this debate is in line with this law, with the scope for new schools, with the scope for already existing schools to refuse pupils on the basis of historically growing exceptions. That is why today's proposal. It is really very simple: education paid for by all of us is accessible to all of us children, and so is teachers. If we are all paying for a school, then it must not be the case that a teacher is not accepted because of his own beliefs. The stage-playing teacher at the reformatorical school should not be able to be fired. I am reluctant to say that neither is the free market cuddling economic teacher on my dome for Marxist secondary education. The key question then is, of course, what the consequences of this major legislative change will be. We are concerned, however, about the positive things that we are seeing. Can the Minister guarantee, for example, that this law does not provide for the creation of schools that, for example, only allow boys or only girls? We have not been able to find that in the law. We already have an Orthodox Jewish school in the Netherlands which teaches boys and girls separately. As far as we are concerned, a very poor development, but they are still doing so within one school building. Are we not making room for schools that are going to undermine even that little bit, that they go to school together? What if there's a parent initiative that only wants to teach boys or girls on religious grounds? Practice has shown that such initiatives usually only want to teach boys. It doesn't matter which group it is, but what does the Minister have in hand to refuse this application? I do not doubt for a moment that he feels it is as undesirable as I do that such schools are being set up, but we are talking about a law today, and if it is right, it will last longer than the Minister himself, well, I do not want to fill in the minister's expiration date. What instruments do we have in our hands to refuse such an application? We are not the only ones concerned about segregation, but also the big cities, public education and, to my great surprise, the VO Council for a week. They are not always our comrades, but they point out the great risks of increasing segregation. Last year, the Education Council warned of the increasing degree of confinement of children in their parents' bubble. This law may greatly facilitate this problem, because where public education is available to everyone, it threatens to become more and more so for anyone who has such a marginal belief that it is not possible to get a group of parents together to set up their own school. A proliferation of bubbles is a possible conclusion of this bill. We're not the only ones who have that concern. I call on the Minister to at least take those concerns away from us, because that is a point that weighs very heavily on us in this law. So far, it hasn't worked. The only answer we have received to our questions about segregation and about the widespread concerns that live there is: we do not think it will increase, if it does increase, then we will see what we are going to do about it, but this law is not for that. No, we read that. But the fact that a law is not meant for it doesn't mean that we are now going to adopt a law that will make the problem of social segregation much worse? That is a very fundamental point for us. The cabinet cannot put aside a major challenge in society and education, arguing that this law is not in favour of it and that it does so in another, especially when so many educational parties point to the risk of increasing segregation through this bill. That is why the amendment, which has already been mentioned, on the segregation check. I'm just gonna get the paperwork. That's no. 20, assessment of measures against segregation by the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u57	That amendment has been replaced by No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u58	I am glad that you are pointing this out to me, because there will be a number of amendments that still need to be discussed. Quite simply, do you meet the demands of the law? And do you contribute to countering or at least not increasing social segregation? Then with this law, including this amendment, you simply have the right to establish a school. But it is unwise to subsidise all kinds of initiatives that are ultimately going to increase social division.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u59	I am chewing on some of the words Mr Kwint has used about the support, perhaps, to this law. In two weeks' time we will discuss the actualization of the adequacy requirements in this Chamber. I very much sympathize with Mr Kwint when it comes to separate classes for boys and girls at school. That should not be possible in the Netherlands. In my view, this can be resolved with the proper requirements. The adequacy requirements are a prerequisite for the establishment of new schools, and give more room for new schools with this law. So I can imagine that that is just a question to Mr Kwint that we would agree to this law and then we would like to put together what we want extra in it through the adequacy requirements. Or are you looking at that differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u60	We are certainly going to talk about these requirements, but if I look closely at them, they are quite abstract in the area of citizenship, for example. You will see, for example, that there are strict demands on the number of staff, on the hours of teaching and on the facilities. I think it would be wiser to talk about it in the preliminary stage: at the time of a school application, we are going to test it here and here, and under these conditions you will be able to set up a new school. I would perhaps incorporate that into this law more quickly than in the law for the adequacy requirements. Or at least I would like to discuss it by this law, because in the end this will also have to apply to existing schools. So we see a different law than this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u61	Precisely because these requirements are such an important part of opening up a new school with this law, I think that these requirements are a very important moment to include what we do and do not expect from a school. So I think our approach route is slightly different, but I do have the feeling that we share what we want to come out of eventually. So that's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u62	Then I always have to worry, when a VVD man says that to me, but I don't rule out the fact that you're right, Mr. Lordema. By the way, I do not have an amendment to the effect that you should not set up boys' schools or girls' schools. I would like to know in particular: does this law give the minister a handle to stop it? I didn't find it. Then we can indeed talk more about how we could do that today or during the legal process. So the segregation check. Surely it is not unreasonable to demand that a new school board be committed to reducing social segregation? We expect a school to prepare children for society as well. A small contribution to the promotion of this co-existence seems to us to be the least. Segregation also threatens to occur between low-chance and high-chance. School directories and experts warn about educational concepts that focus specifically on so-called excels. Without, for example, Mrs Westerveld's amendment, which I was just talking about, how can we prevent a growing division between pupils? These same parties also warn against the possible entry of commercial parties into Dutch education. That objection is put aside by the cabinet because distributions of profits in Dutch education are not allowed. I am very happy about that, because we have been able to see in other places what that can do with the public sector. But a publishing company can actually use taxpayers' money to test its own methods at its own schools, or just prescribe them. Because in the end, we all pay for those books. It can also be ensured, for example, that a government pays itself out generously with educational money that could be better spent in the classroom. What means does the Minister have to intervene when he sees this? While the cabinet has just said that almost all the points about segregation are put aside, because this proposal is not in favour of this, segregation is suddenly a legitimate argument when it comes to the Chamber's adopted desire to have a school leave a school board. A few years ago, the majority of the Chamber, as I was talking about last week, supported the wish of my colleague Jasper van Dijk to be able to leave school as a school board. A proposal that, as far as we are concerned, would have fit perfectly in this bill, because you will then set up your own school outside the existing dome. But the government doesn't decide. Why is that? Aren't we gonna do the motion now? Is there any reason I'm missing? Let me give you some background information. Of course, we had an amendment in preparation, but people who know much more about education legislation than I pointed out that this possibility would already exist. If a school board and a co-determination board want to step out of a umbrella, they would not need permission from the board of the umbrella. That surprised me, as we recently had a debate on the merger test, in which this wish was explicitly discussed. So the question to the Minister is what happens when a school wants to leave a dome, be the school board and the co-determination council and the board of the dome opposes it. Is there a possibility of getting out of a school dome? If that is the case, we simply have our way, but if it is not, I fear we will have to write another amendment. Like the education inspection, we are concerned about unproven educational concepts to which children are sometimes exposed. Then there is another positive point from this law: we are not going to wait to evaluate the quality of education until children have finished their finals. I think that is an excellent decision by the Minister. That seems to us to be positive and necessary. However, we do not read so much about the pre-trial test announced by the Minister. As Mr Heerema has just said, if you meet the requirements, so if you have enough teachers, education time and a building, you may start, somewhat briefly put down. How's that gonna work out in practice? Does the incision get the instruction to continue or not to proceed if in doubt? That's a rather important question. These are young children who will attend the relevant school for several years. A more rigorous assessment of whether an educational concept has sufficient scientific basis is, in our view, really necessary if this extra room is to be provided by the cabinet to parents. After all, it's about kids. In no way do I have the illusion that the scientific consensus is such that it always points 100% in the same direction, but I do expect a group of parents who are going to set up a school to show with some scientific evidence that they can ultimately provide good education with those studies in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u63	Educational concepts that are proven to work; that is a very interesting thought. One of the new educational concepts in Iceland is that boys and girls sometimes receive separate lessons. Good results are being achieved there. Mr Kwint has just said that he would really like to see separate lessons not being taught and that this would be one of the prerequisites. Does he not want a separation between boys and girls when it takes place on a religious basis and is it allowed when it takes place on a pedagogical basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u64	It seems to me, bearing in mind the argument I have just made about aligning privileges between what people do on religious or other ideological beliefs, illogical to say: okay, then we are going to do so on a didactic basis. Perhaps there will come a time when the results show convincingly that it would help for certain groups. But in women's prison, we're not gonna put boys in a classroom either, and the same goes for men's prison. Of course, there may be circumstances that make you deviate from that, but the basic starting point of Dutch education seems to me that you are in one class together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u65	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u66	As this law makes it easier to set up a school on the basis of one's own belief whether it is recognized or not, it would be logical to at least partially restrict some of the historically built privileges of recognised directions from the past. Let's walk a few by. With the extension of the possibility of setting up a school, it would no longer be necessary for children from far and wide to be driven by vans to the one specific school that is according to their beliefs. If that belief of life is of some magnitude, it is much easier to set up a school. So it's a good time to see what you're doing with student transport based on belief in life. The money can really be spent better as far as we are concerned. It may be that despite the broad............................................................................................................................................................... But then we still have public education or a special school closest to us. Unless it is necessary for physical or psychological specialist needs, the SP would really want to prevent children from sitting in a van for hours a day. In an ideal world, every child can get close to home to a good school where he feels at home, with children from the classroom with whom you can still play after school. Now you don't have to convince a socialist that the ideal world isn't there yet, but the subsidised far from home driving students seems to us to be a step away from that ideal world. This also includes an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u67	In part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u68	In part No. 10, I just heard. It's some kind of bingo!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u69	It is often the case with amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u70	In this way, the exemption from compulsory schooling based on belief would also be less necessary. Please note, we are not talking here specifically about children who, for psychological or physical reasons, cannot go to school or who have been in trouble due to failing appropriate education. We are talking here about the exemption that parents can get for their child by appealing to belief in life. This is actually the same as in the case of student transport. Gather enough parents around you who want to start a school together, and then you can. We are not in favour of this fragmentation, but we can do so with this law. It's being facilitated. This removes the need for this Article. Even if, for example, your belief in life was not recognised before and so you couldn't establish a school, you can now. Again, in an ideal world, home education should not be necessary for us at all, but just as it becomes easier to set up a school based on your conviction, it is a logical time for us to say goodbye to this part of home education. Another discussion I had just had with Mr Heerema. Now that schools can be set up with a multitude of beliefs, it is all the more important in the future to ensure what a child should eventually learn in school. Those core targets will have to be sharp. Later we will discuss the curriculum review in detail. I suspect that will be an extremely exciting and lengthy session of this committee. In recent years, the SP has not been very hopeful, but we are waiting for what the Minister is bringing. So we are going to look at this in detail, but the reason why I'm quoting this now is to underline the need for tight core targets. A belief in life should not be a reason not to teach children things that we all decided should be taught at school. Especially in view of the new, strengthened core targets, we think it would be wise to call into question the possibility of substitute nuclear targets, for example. With this law I've already said it about eight times already, parents get much more opportunities to set up a school that suits their beliefs. But that does mean that we will have to make sure that the core of what children are supposed to learn, that is to say, the core goals, also in all these schools. Does the Minister share that opinion? It also includes an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u71	In part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u72	In part No. 11, thank you. Still no one with bingo? How will the citizenship assignment be completed in schools? How are we gonna keep a close eye on it? I'm just reminding the former school director, because we're not all going to set up extra schools where it's said you can be gay but you can't have a relationship? How are we going to assess in advance whether, for example, the social acceptance of homosexuality, but also the other important goals that we are pursuing with citizenship, will not be put under extra pressure in new schools? This week we were shocked by horrible stories about salafistic mosque schools. Everyone from left to right, from mosques to parents, is disgusting about these institutions. A multiplechoice question whether to kill a gay or a renegade through whips, stoning or killing by sword is too disgusting for words. For years we as SP have been trying to get a better grip on those kind of weekend schools, but what we saw yesterday at Nieuwsuur was of a different order. Yesterday it was about education paid for by all of us; not a weekend school or class called together, but just the primary school or high school that we all pay for. And what's being taught there? Eye contact is adultery. Allah abhors homosexuality. These are values that are directly opposed to what we should learn in the schools we all pay for. And what does the education inspector say? These teaching methods alone are not evidence that has acted against the law. That is why I specifically asked the same question I asked earlier about the presentation of the reformator's lecturer: is that correct, according to the Minister? According to the Minister, is it true what the education inspector says, namely that it falls within the law when you write in a teaching method that eye contact is adultery and homosexuality is abhorred by Allah? Under the Education Act, too. I saw another teaching method, which is literally part of the vision: we need to be resilient to modern thinking about sexuality and sexual diversity. Same question: can we do that now? Do we have to teach children in government-paid schools that they need to be made resistant to modern thinking about sexuality? I suspect that this method has been written exactly in such a way that it falls within the law. But for a gay guy sitting in the back of the classroom, it's obvious what it means: I'm just gonna sit in the closet for a while. If these things fall within the law, it's time to tighten up the law. If the education inspector is wrong and if the minister thinks "we have enough in our hands to go to those schools," I would like to hear that from him. Speaking of schools and the education inspection, there is one specific school on which the Chamber has debated quite a lot recently: the infamous Cornelius Haga Lyceum. Even before this school was founded, there were concerns: the municipality of Amsterdam didn't want it and the Ministry of Education didn't want it. The dome of Islamic primary education didn't want it. Everyone went to court and everyone got wrong. This school was supposed to be here, and now we're stuck with the fried pears. During the debates on this school, the Minister has repeatedly referred to this law, the Law more room for new schools, which "may sometimes mean less room for new schools." Then I think this is the time for the litmus test. Under what article in this law could we have prevented the creation of the Cornelius Haga Lyceum? Honestly, I don't see it. A vog for drivers? I think it's a good idea. Haven't been involved in a school that hasn't functioned for five years? I think it's a good idea. But I do not read the golden article to which the Minister seemed to refer in the previous debate on Corneliums Haga. What do we have in our hands to stop the creation of a school that everyone sees is a bad idea? What do we have in our hands with this law to prevent all kinds of charlatans from entering education? Before I go down to the block...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u73	I find it interesting what Mr. Kwint of the SP says. I hope he has taken note of the amendment I tabled. Do you see any possibility of preventing this kind of thing from happening in front of new schools? That is the spirit of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u74	I've been reading it. I did have questions about it, because I think above all: what is an "ideological movement that is contrary to the values of our rule of law"? But at the moment when a school is set up that is de facto contrary to the values of our rule of law, I think it is very wise that we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u75	Okay, maybe we can think a little bit further about it, but then I can see that you could indeed vote in favour of that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u76	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr Beertema can determine what he wants, but I started my reply by saying that I had some questions about that. So I'm waiting for his explanation. However, I do not think that it would be wise to allow schools to trample on the rule of law here is a very controversial position that Mr Beertema took there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u79	There are also concerns about this bill in relation to the shrinkage of student numbers. Not the shrinkage of students themselves: that is a completely different problem. That shrinkage earlier led the cabinet to abolish the merger test. That was really necessary, because otherwise schools would disappear. A week later, we are talking about a law that schoolbodies say stimulates competition between schools. For example, you're now in a shrinking area. Schools are already under pressure to reach the minimum number of students. If parents then come up with a proposal that can count on sufficient interest, you cannot refuse it, even if it may affect the stability of schools in the area. Will existing schools not be put under any further pressure? In areas where the supply of education is already so precarious, I know the Minister's involvement in those shrinking areas and the difficulties that schools sometimes have, so he knows exactly what I mean. Suddenly you offer a lot of room for uncertainty and lack of continuity. The government is quite sure: this law contributes to the renewal of the supply and not to the increase in the number of schools. But if that is the case, I read that there are about 50 new schools a year, and that means that 50 schools are going to disappear. This can lead to quite a few problems in shrinking areas. A new school is always accompanied by a period of uncertainty. There's no way to prevent that. A concept will have to prove itself and it's only a question of whether the number of students you think you're picking up actually comes to your school. But what does it mean for those who teach when you have a competitor at the door in one go? What does it mean for a teacher in a shrinkage area who goes to a new school that turns out not to be so successful after all and who then completely lost his job? Does the cabinet recognise this risk for educational staff? At both an older and a newly established school, the job can be at risk. What does this mean for the attractiveness of the teaching profession? Is the additional uncertainty associated with the establishment of a new school not going to lead to a faster tendency of directors to give teachers temporary appointments? That's something that's been a big annoyance to a lot of teachers for a long time. What are we going to do to prevent this undesirable situation? As I said before, the core of this bill for the SP is mainly society, society, and the extent to which it contributes to cohesion in that society. The noun "society" becomes a bit of an empty cry if it is not interpreted as a verb: living together. It's something that needs to be permanently invested in. It is not a natural fact, but it requires maintenance and effort. It's not gonna be okay by itself so soon. That's why we see so many missed opportunities. That is why we are calling for this segregation test to be the least we can do for a new school. Whose freedom do we facilitate when people lock themselves in their bubble and take their children with them? How do we prevent public education from becoming just some kind of residual category of our order? Why is special education so greatly facilitated in this bill and is the widespread presence of public education not anchored? Why not opt for a law under which the first school in a new building neighborhood should always be a public one? I suspect that Mr Bishop has something to say about this, but he is still sitting. There may be special education, but public education must be there, according to Paul Zoontjens. Is it not true that the guarantee function of public education, under which it must at least be available in the environment, is de facto exchanged with this law? That guarantee function is not in the law. I would like to mention an extreme case. Can the cabinet now guarantee that there is always a school in someone's immediate vicinity that will allow a student to attend? Given the number of schools with an admission policy, is that chance rather small, but can we guarantee that there will not be a place in the Netherlands where the schools in the immediate vicinity will not allow a student? What does that mean for home tuition? We say, that first school in a neighborhood should just be public. That school just allows kids no matter what the parents believe. In this way there is at least a minimum guarantee of freedom to go to school in your own neighborhood or in your own village. Mr President, thank you and my colleagues for your patience and their patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u81	The Court, after hearing the debate, considers that parents' preferences do not always fit in with the actual school offer, calls on the Government in 1994 to submit a proposal to the Chamber to enable the school stock to be adapted to changing preferences and to proceed to the order of the day. Signed by colleagues De Cloe, Jorritsma-Lebbink, Versnel-Schmitz and Willems. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the bill more room for new schools, a bill with a long history. The motion tabled by the PvdA, VVD, D66 and PSP in 1993, which I just read, was the start of a long policy process. On the basis of this motion, the Education Council in 1996 proposed the introduction of a system of direction-free planning. But the Council of State rejected this idea and at the beginning of this century the idea was so cool that in 2004 the then CDA Minister Maria van der Hoeven announced that no bill would be tabled. It would have taken 11 years to conclude that nothing would happen. Under the previous cabinet, the idea of direction-free planning was revived by then Secretary of State Sander Dekker. He concluded that confessional parties wanted to hold on to their directions for too long in the creation of new schools. For the VVD this was an excellent opportunity to offer space for new educational concepts. However, Dekker's bill never made it to the Chamber. The subject moved on to the current cabinet and Minister Slob continued with it. And now, after 26 years of talking, thinking and sobbing, there is finally a product, and that product, according to the Christian Union's belief, is a valuable and balanced proposal. Let's start with the direction-free planning. The freedom of education enshrined in Article 23 by the Constitutionalist in 1917 has never intended to limit the freedom of foundation and maintenance of schools to the pillars as those of ancient times existed in our country. Article 23 never intended to restrict the concept of direction. With the arrival of article 23 in 1917 there was direction-free planning. As now the schools in the Netherlands are divided, shows what you get about how direction-free planning was meant at that time. An attempt by the Liberal State Party to restrict the concept of "direction" still led to constitutional objections in 1923 and only 60 years later, in 1983, when the Netherlands had already said goodbye to its columns, the concept of "direction" was defined in such a way that it required a religious or philosophical pillar to be recognised as a direction for the foundation of schools. Ten years later, in 1993, there was this famous motion of PvdA, VVD, D66 and GroenLinks to carry that contained concept of direction again. That sound has kept ringing ever since. The traditional columns are no longer of this time, so there must be more room for other directions and concepts. For although freedom of education was never the intention of the concept of direction in Article 23, it had the consequence that principles of a pedagogical nature were excluded. The signature of an institution by the single term'montessori', 'dalton' or 'jenaplan' is therefore not considered as a 'direction' and, on the basis of this signature alone, such schools are not eligible for public benefit. The school will have to start from the recognised direction, and that is a stain on the freedom of education in the Christian Union, especially in a country that sees itself by a majority as non-religious. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union grants everyone the freedom that has been granted to Christian schools for so long: the right of parents to choose a school that suits their child and if that school does not exist, to establish one themselves, because the Christian Union sees a school as a value community. Parents and students deserve education that fits their identity and this bill offers equal opportunities to all directions and concepts, while retaining the valuable elements of the last hundred years. Thus, this bill enhances and strengthens the freedom of education. That is why we support this bill. However, many parties are concerned about the impact of this bill on education segregation. That is what we are always talking about when discussing the freedom of education. Special education and, in particular, what is called "religious education" is always designated as the source of segregation. The admission policy of schools is often seen as the holy grail that solves this segregation, while 95% of special schools are simply widely accessible and the causes of segregation really cannot be found in the existence of special education. The government, too, rightly states in this legislative proposal that the solution to segregation must not be sought in limiting important achievements of our education system or in restricting the freedom of education. Rather, we must ensure that there are attractive high-quality schools in every place in our country and that there are no financial obstacles, such as exorbitant parental contributions, so that children of rich and poor parents meet. That is why I have just tabled an amendment to item No. 28, which ensures that the voluntary parental contribution is included in the application, so that that additional information is provided when applying for the establishment of a school. In this way, we address practical and financial thresholds that may exist when choosing a school. For the Christian Union, freedom of education is a great asset. But freedom also always brings with it responsibility, because freedom can easily come under pressure. In recent times, we have seen enough examples of this. For example, there are concerns about salafistic education, about schools that stand with their backs to society. That is why it is right that this legislative proposal lays down stricter requirements in advance for the establishment of a school. It's gonna be harder to start a new school. In the Minister's view, does the bill offer sufficient tools to prevent schools from being founded with anti-democratic or non-free influences?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u82	I should like to comment on Mr Bruins' speech on segregation. It is true that a number of parties, including my party, fear that this bill will increase segregation, but I did not specifically mention the Christian schools in my contribution. As a specific example, I have just mentioned the particular concepts to which the education inspection also referred this spring. We see that often parents who have studied themselves send their children there. I would like to ask Mr Bruins of the Christian Union whether he heard that argument from the education inspector at the time and how he sees it in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u83	I did indeed listen very carefully to the Education Council then and even ask the question again to get confirmation. Indeed, the Education Council said: the segregation in the Netherlands is not in the special schools on a religious basis; the segregation is indeed only in that direction, in general special, when it comes to pedagogical concepts, where parents of a certain level of education and with a certain wallet preferably send their children. That's what worries me. I was pleased with the questions Mrs Westerveld has asked the Minister to see how you want to deal with such concepts in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u84	I do not think that we should discuss what was said in the round table in question. My question is very specific: does the Christian Union share the concerns we have about these particular concepts in the context of possible enlargement of the segregation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u85	That's exactly my next paragraph. I call them popcorn schools: modernist ideas that come up and are gone. That's what I'm really worried about. That will be in my next paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u86	Perhaps I will return to him in the next paragraph to that reply from Mr Bruins. Let me mention another point he just mentioned: the justified concerns about schools that are facing society with their backs. I've been thinking about that myself. I mentioned a school specifically; there are several to name, I'm afraid. What's his assessment? My assessment is: I see a tighter set of demands before a school can be founded. I welcome that. I do not see that we have a stick in our hands to stop the establishment of schools that are already subject to wide-ranging and wide-ranging concerns. I see a vog, I see a school plan. Does Mr. Bruins see them? I would like to be convinced on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u87	I see that the Minister is already taking substantial steps in this legislative proposal and that there are other legislative proposals that are still contributing to addressing this problem. In this legislative proposal, very specifically, I see that in the ex ante assessment of the adequacy requirements. I have to add, however, that it is still very exciting to see how you go ahead to test for something that is not there yet. That's pretty exciting in this country, but okay. Plans must be submitted, comprehensive documents must be submitted, and there will be a prior check on these plans. This should include a description of how the provision of education will contribute to the basic values of our democratic rule of law. So how are these democratic values to be dealt with? Personalisation and socialisation are also educational goals that already exist in the law. So one has to state that in advance. That's still separate from the problem that you have to test something that isn't there yet. But I think that the Minister has put his full weight into the ex ante tests in order to be able to test what we can test in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u88	I have read these things and I do see them as improvements to the current situation. Does Mr Bruins think that in the specific case of the Haga Lyceum, for example, we would have sufficient resources with this new law? When the Haga Lyceum was founded, the signals really came from all corners of society. They said don't do this. The predecessor of this minister and the municipality of Amsterdam have gone exceptionally far to try to stop the foundation of that school. Does Mr Bruins think that we will now have sufficient resources in our hands to stop the creation of a similar school?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u89	If it is true that at that school the basic values of our democratic rule of law are being violated, and one would have written down in advance how one intended to do so, then one can of course stop such a school. But in case they write beautiful words there, they mislead things and then they do not follow the educational plans they have written themselves, I think you will have more in your hands than you currently have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u90	The SP now takes over the questions about the Haga Lyceum from me. I find that refreshing, too. But, of course, there's something else. This is not so much a question of these directions as of pedagogical-eductic concepts. Could a concept such as, for example, Ideally, or the iPad school have been prevented on the basis of the prior review framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u92	And if it isn't, should it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u93	I do not see directly that possibility with the law as it stands, unless you can really prove that a teaching method is just really bad for children. You won't find that in scientific literature very easily. It is an attractive idea, for example, that you should write down why one thinks that a particular teaching method is a good idea, and that references to scientific literature should indeed be provided. That would be quite an interesting thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u94	Well, then we've come a long way, I guess. Would you be in favour of that scientific validation actually being part of the ex ante review framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u95	The difficult thing about gamma sciences is, of course, that there are always scientific schools there that continue to discuss with each other whether or not something works. It's really hard to make black and white in behavioral science. In that respect, it is easier to measure an atom than a student. But referring to scientific literature that shows that something works or is a good idea, and that one should take it if possible, is something I would like to look at with a benevolent eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u96	Okay. And especially if we can connect that with past results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u97	The more results from the past, the stronger the scientific conclusions that can be drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned the popcorn schools. We must be careful that the space provided does not lead to so-called popcorn schools, which are going to experiment with children. That is exactly what Mr Beertema means. There are many fashion grills in our educational country, and many consultants and businesses earn a well invested sandwich, and too often a subsidised sandwich. When a new school is set up, we want it to be done in a stable way, with a good prognosis for survival, preferably on the basis of effective methods. Can the Minister convince me that this bill with sufficient force can prevent the emergence of schools that are not really long-lived? We do not want our children to be confronted with a forced transition to another school in the middle of their time in primary school, because setting up their school was a bad idea on second thought. Mr. Chairman. In fact, we see that this bill increases the freedom of education, but at the same time it also makes it more difficult to set up new schools because the government is going to make demands in advance. The government is given the right to test the quality prior to the establishment of the school. It concerns the quality of directors, governance and educational plans. As I have just said, I can live up to that, but it is quite exciting, also from a constitutional point of view. There is deeper intervention in educational freedom, and the quality of something that does not yet exist requires a new way of working and thinking, including inspection. That way of working still needs to be developed. Can the Minister specify which additional tools municipalities, the inspection and the ministry now get to consider plans for setting up new schools more critically? Can the Minister further confirm that these plans are in balance with our fundamental rights and that they are proportionate and enforceable? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law we are talking about today offers more room to set up new schools, to set up a school in addition to the existing nineteen directions on only pedagogical-eductic grounds. "That freedom fits these times." That's what he found in 1993 "He just came up with "My predecessor Dick de Cloe." But there is a downside to this freedom, which is the effects it unintentionally has or may have on the freedom of choice and equal opportunities that we seek in our education. Because how much freedom of choice do you have as a parent if the only school within cycling distance has an interesting base, but also requires a towering parental contribution? How does the Minister ensure that every child has access to every school? That your parents' wallet should never be leading in that? Leading education lawyers are very clear about it, even at the round table on article 23 that was here recently: this bill increases the chance of segregation and thus inequality of opportunity. There is a very high risk that it will lead to so-called booth schools: schools where only children with the same background go. The VO Council, the employers' organisation of secondary schools, has also turned its back on this proposal. What does the Minister's concern of the VO Council think that this bill is right to counter school cooperation and even to encourage competition, something which is certainly a very undesirable scenario in times of shrinkage? Mr. Chairman. In addition, we are concerned about the rejection of children by schools because the school could not provide adequate care or because parents would not agree with the basis. Or maybe, to put it mildly, because the school doesn't like certain kids as much as others. Often that doesn't happen openly. In our search for a modernisation of Constitutional Article 23, I spoke with many parents, all with their own story. Parents who were already told during a first phone call with a school that if their child had ADHD, it might be better off somewhere else. You have to be very firm in your shoes to still get your kid enrolled in that school. This is also evident from the following examples we received from other parents. A Moroccan-Dutch mother reported her daughter when the child was 1 year old. There was a waiting list, she was told. And there was no place. The school didn't tell me where she was. In the years that followed, she received a letter from the school three times with the message that there was close to another school where there was room for her daughter. In other words, you are not welcome here. Another mother told me about a conversation she had with the school director when her son was 2.5 years old. It was a school in the neighborhood known as white school. The director told her that her child was too young to register and that she should wait a little longer. Over time she would get more information, but she never received it. When her son was almost 4, she went to the school again, after which she received a letter telling her that the school was unfortunately full. They referred her to elementary school in the neighborhood, which was known as black school. The mother said: I have the impression that my Turkish origin does indeed play a role, because I was well on time with 2.5 years; why didn't they let him in? Mr. Chairman. These kinds of stories, and unfortunately there are a lot more ones that show that we are far from there and that apparently there are still schools that shamelessly dare to refuse children. Our main concern about this bill is therefore: should we not first ensure that all children are actually welcome in all schools and also get the care and attention they deserve, that they are appreciated for who they are? The amendment in part No. 21, if I say it right, that I, together with SP and GroenLinks today, would be a good first step in this regard. A positive element of this bill is that the government wants to have the education inspection checked in advance whether a new school meets the quality requirements to be eligible for funding. As far as we are concerned, however, there is no formal advisory role for municipalities to think about. That signal has also reached us from various aldermen. The VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, also shares this concern. It considers that the reporting obligation for new initiatives is currently too low. Why is the Minister afraid that this would undermine the freedom of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u102	Let me come back to the examples mentioned by Mrs van den Hul and to her amendment. In fact, that amendment says: let us start with the obligation to accept the new schools, and the debate on the existing schools will also take place once again. I'm just saying it in my own words. I understand that, but in the examples she cited, Article 23 is in my view not used at all to refuse children. I don't think so. You would almost say: if only, because then it was clear why this is happening. This is just discrimination, or just don't feel like having a child that might have a slightly greater need for care, or so on. Then we always come back to the question: how are we really going to help the children from Mrs van den Hul's examples? Are we going to help them by introducing the acceptance obligation now, or are we going to help them by combating discrimination at the gate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u103	In my opinion, it is not a question of whether or not it is a question of whether it is an issue of en-en. Mr Van Meenen is indeed right: the examples I have just mentioned are very diverse. We also have these examples when it comes to appropriate education. We also have poignant examples of parents of children with a special need for care that are refused. We want to give parents the assurance that they are in their right. That's what we're talking about. We see now that unfortunately it is often mature parents who find their way, while parents who are less mature often do not know where to go. Does our amendment solve all the problems? No, I will be the first to admit that, but as far as we are concerned, it is an important first step to ensure that every child is welcome everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u104	We are going to talk about Article 23 in detail. I am not particularly attached to that article, as perhaps is known, but it is quite a matter of putting a little constitutional freedom aside in an amendment. So I have great hesitation as to what to do with such an amendment. For whom is this amendment going to solve anything? I would like to hear more from Mrs Van den Hul. I hope we can agree at least that it is not a solution to all the examples she has mentioned in her speech, because it does not call on Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u105	In some cases, it is not. In most cases where exclusion is concerned, Article 23 is not formally invoked, but it is done much more informally. Again, we do not see this as a comprehensive solution, but as an important step towards ensuring that every child is welcome. I very much hope for the support of the original co-author of the Hamer Act, who has already been appointed by Mr Kwint. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. I was just talking about the advisory role of the municipalities, but that's not what we're here for. We are not just here with ex ante scrutiny, because what do we do if it turns out that the core objectives of a school are not being met, or if it turns out that the social security of, for example, LBT students is not guaranteed? We asked that question earlier, following the signing of the Nashville Declaration by school administrators. Unfortunately, that question is again topical today. How is it that the education inspection does not see any reason to intervene in the ISBO schools, because "these would not be contrary to the basic values of the democratic rule of law"? When a child at school learns that transgender people are cursed, that having sex with someone of the same sex is forbidden, and that even eye contact between girls and boys is already out of the question, it seems to me that all boundaries are crossed. How can the Minister explain that the education inspection does not intervene in such a case? Previously, we expressed our concerns about the lack of enforcement at the core targets of sexual diversity and sexual resilience. At that time, the Minister indicated that the inspection had sufficient instruments. On the basis of this news, the Minister really has something to explain here. Or does he agree with the inspection that this lesson does not conflict with the basic values of the democratic rule of law? Does the Minister maintain today that the inspection has sufficient instruments for enforcement and, if not, what will the Minister do about it and in what time? Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the bill does not sufficiently address our concerns about increasing segregation and inequality of opportunity in our education as a result of this bill. So we, too, are looking forward to the Minister's reply, because we are faced with a situation in which every child must be sure of the very best education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u107	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet increases the freedom of education. It was one of the promises of the coalition agreement that the law we are discussing today provides further details. The bill More room for new schools makes it easier for parents to start a new school, even if they do not belong to a recognised direction. In addition to public schools and special schools on a philosophical basis, new schools can be set up, for example on a teaching and teaching basis, provided that there is real and lasting interest in parents in a particular region. Because freedom is always accompanied by responsibility, the Education Inspectorate, if this bill is adopted, will take a quality test at a much earlier stage. This test, which will be carried out on six standards, must separate the chaff from the chaff and may soon lead to a new school, but also, for example, a subsidiary of an existing school, not being able to establish itself if these basic conditions are not met, such as the governance structure, safety at school, the monitoring of the quality of education and the implementation of citizenship education. The CDA does want the Education Inspectorate to actually do what it was set up to do: inspect schools. When I saw the broadcast of Nieuwsuur and the publications in NRC Handelsblad, I was very cold. The teaching methods of sexual education at Islamic primary schools are basically aimed at intolerance towards the Ihbti community and are opposed to the principle of equality in our Constitution. The CDA wants students to meet, learn to participate in our open, democratic society and bring our western values of equality between men and women, between gay and straight, between believers and unbelievers. We can expect all students to get that at school, at every school. Luckily, the cabinet will soon come forward with a further elaboration of the citizenship mission for schools. However, I would also ask the Minister to ensure that the inspection is no longer diving, but that the difficult conversation takes place and intervenes where necessary if there is no proper citizenship education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u108	I hear Mr Rog from the CDA, another colleague in a row, say that he is extremely shocked at what was said in those news broadcasts. My sincere question is: are you and your colleagues really so surprised at what has become public there, just because Nieuwsuur and the MSM, the mainstream media, have now reported it, when it has been part of our programme for 15 years and we are not stopping warning about these matters? How do you feel about that, Mr. Rog, I'd like to ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u109	I will certainly not deny that Mr Beertema talks about this more often, but I have not heard him present the examples of these teaching methods here before. I have seen them now in this broadcast and in the publications of NRC Handelsblad. We have indicated in the government agreement that we consider sexual diversity, equality between men and women to be an important task for education. I see here that is taught in intolerance, and I do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u110	I have warned about this myself many times and gave examples of it, including when I mentioned here in the Chamber that if I went to work at Islamic schools in Rotterdam, everything was well. Then I was toured in an incredible Dutch school, where integration and citizenship were paramount. At the same time, I had at least my tipsters, who said: you need to know what happens during homework supervision, what happens behind the scenes. Doesn't the CDA have such tips, or the SP, or D66, D66, or other parties? Then it could have been clear for a long time that I am concerned that all of you, shall I say, are so slow of understanding. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u111	Why is that, Mr. Rog?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u112	Well, I'm gonna explain that. Mr. Beertema is confusing two things very smoothly now. He's talking about homework counseling and weekend schools. And that's right; we know that. It was my group chairman, Mr Pieter Heerma, who tabled a motion more than six months ago to ensure that the education inspection is checked at weekend schools of this kind. It is very nice that I saw two colleagues in our Chamber, from the Christian Union and the VVD, repeating exactly that proposal two days ago at Nieuwsuur. So you understand, that's exactly what we're here for. That is what we proposed ourselves in February. So we knew that. What I didn't know was that it was also about funded education. I don't think what's exposed there should be possible. I find it contrary to the principle of equality between men and women, of religious and unbelieving and of homosexual and heterosexual, and thus contrary to the citizenship mission. I think the Education Inspectorate should check on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u113	The late converts are the best, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u114	Well, I had a late convert on my roof yesterday. He was once PVV'er and he has now converted to another faith. That is no fun, I can tell Mr Beertema. Mr Beertema asks why his colleagues are so slow to understand, but I do not think he can listen very well himself. Because I didn't say I was surprised at all. He blames me now. I just said I wasn't surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u115	Shall I sit down again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u116	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u117	But my question to Mr Rog... Look, here he comes, Mr. Rog. I fully agree with what you say, but what can we do as a Chamber to ensure that we keep methods out of school that teach children to be made resistant to modern thinking about sexuality? I can only interpret it as undermining the principle of equality between men and women, of homosexual and heterosexual, which you are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u118	I believe I have said that this is a task for the education inspector. It can therefore also check whether the citizenship mission, which is part of it, is actually respected, even more so, as explicitly stated in the government agreement. Mr Beertema is still trying to make it a bit of a schism, but I was actually very happy to see that from DENK to the PVV the Chamber has a broad view of this. And the Minister's move is to put his Education Inspectorate to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u119	Then I hope that inspection will do the same. I am talking about making it resilient to modern thinking about sexuality: that is one of the objectives of a teaching method used in 400 schools in the Netherlands. This is a reformatorical teaching method that has been given for many years at Dutch, subsidised schools. That is why I also said to Mr Beertema that I am not surprised whether it is Islamic or reformative education. Does Mr Rog share my appeal to the Minister to look at all these teaching methods in the broadest sense, to see if they are doing what we want them to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u120	I just indicated what I want. The Minister's on the move. The inspection must therefore also look at these methods. That is part of the work to carry out that citizenship mission correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u121	Proceed, Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u122	Back to the bill before me, I wrote it down. The CDA welcomes the extension of parental choice, but we still have some questions and suggestions for possible improvements to the legislative proposal. The quality test prior to the foundation of the school is there to prevent students from receiving poor quality education. To what extent can paper reality really provide insight into the expected quality of education? A number of colleagues have asked similar questions. To what extent is there any consideration of matters other than those which are already covered in the mandatory consultation with the school board, after the decision has been taken to set up the school and before the decision is taken that the school should be funded and therefore can start? Is the Minister prepared to have a final risk analysis carried out after the paper exercise, just before the actual opening of the school? A driver who was involved in a school in the past who was given insufficient or very weak judgment from the inspection is subject to additional checks and that is supported by the CDA. Does the Minister agree with us that it would be wise for the school leader or the director to carry out such a study, precisely in order to prevent the new school from offering insufficient quality of education, under the direction of a school leader or director who also did not offer sufficient quality of education at a previous school, which he was to blame for, because that would have to be done? Is it possible to make a legally permissible distinction here between the well-known administrations with a good name, and the unknown boards or the administrations with a less good reputation? We also ask the Minister when the inspection will be back on the doorstep at the new school, after the start of the funding. It has already been agreed in the law that this will be within three months of the start of the new school, in order to prevent it from taking at least two years, as before, before the Minister could end the funding of a school offering poor educational quality. Have these deadlines remained the same with this bill or have they been tightened up? Is it possible to be on the sidewalk right after the start with this inspection study at schools we don't know about or have doubts about, to keep a good finger on the wrist and to advise on improvements if necessary? The experiences at the Haga Lyceum have shown that this may be very necessary. The CDA also has serious doubts about the possibility currently available, and is not removed by this bill, of establishing or maintaining schools with foreign funding. We would like to hear from the Minister what his considerations were in order to keep this possibility open. How does he ensure that this funding does not include anti-democratic or anti-integrative teaching methods? The establishment of a new school must in future show that there is sufficient interest in the new school. In response to our questions on the correction factor of 0,7 we are now convinced of the Minister's answers. We do ask that this correction factor be properly monitored in all circumstances; both for p.o. as for vo, in shrinking area or growing region. We have great hesitation in the possibility of market research among parents towards the interest in a new school. I have heard many other colleagues have heard about this. We believe that this should not be given the same value as parental statements. The excellent amendment prepared on this point by Mr Bishop will therefore be submitted to me. The obligation to invite the other school authorities in the region and the municipal administration to a meeting is an important step ahead of the advice of the Education Inspectorate and the Minister's decision. As far as we are concerned, our questions on this point in the report have been adequately answered by the Minister. We are therefore not in favour of a further statutory advisory role of municipalities. Some parties have proposed this in an amendment here. (NL) Mr President, the number of that amendment has, frankly, escaped my attention. I know that my colleague Van Meenen is underneath it, but I really do not understand that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u123	The amendment in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u124	Right, that one!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u125	Is that what you were gonna say, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u126	Perhaps I will interrupt my colleague about this rather than interrupt me about it now. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u127	I see that Mr Van Meenen is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u128	Apparently, Mr. Rog doesn't see anything in an advisory right of the municipality. Does he not agree with me that the consequences of setting up a new school will indeed be a major part of the municipality? Even if it's just about realizing the housing. For example, the municipality can have a very good idea of the completeness of the offer that exists at that time. Why does Mr Rog not want any role for the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u129	That's a good question. I'm going to ask my colleague about that later. The reason is that I also want a degree of equality between school boards, no matter what municipality they end up in. I think we will put the Minister in a very complicated position if we allow it. At the same time, this is without prejudice to the fact that the municipality already has a hugely important task and has a huge space to create housing, for example. The municipality therefore already has a competence without this amendment. However, what Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Westerveld are doing with this amendment is putting the Minister into an impossible gap and making governance dependent on the municipality in which they start. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u130	We will continue this during my contribution, but only briefly. Look, there are, of course, differences per municipality. If there are already three montessori schools in a municipality and there is a request to add a fourth, the situation for that municipality is completely different from that for a municipality in which that education is not present. There are, therefore, and this must be reflected. So I do not understand why Mr Rog here says that there must be equality. It's not even anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u131	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u132	Secondly, I would like to ask him the following. As far as I am concerned, this is a very fundamental point. In the past there was the so-called Plan of Schools. In addition, the province had advisory rights on whether or not to allow new schools. How does Mr. Rog look at that? Why could the province have done that at the time, but not the municipality now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u133	I think it is certainly important for the municipality to be involved in the establishment of new schools, in any case in the discussions about them. I think this is what Mr Van Meenen wants in the end. The conversation should not only take place with other school authorities to see whether there may already be sufficient education to the wishes of parents or whether this can be adapted. The conversation should also take place with the municipalities. But that's different from an advisory right. The municipality already has an independent right on parts, for example to grant or not to grant housing. I'd like to leave it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u135	With the freedom to establish a new school, there is also the possibility for schools to change colour, for example by saying goodbye to a religious foundation and moving to an educational basis. The CDA calls for caution in these cases, because changing colour can disadvantage parents who deliberately chose the school's original direction. In addition, it is not easy for teachers. I had a little debate on it with Mrs Westerveld. The teachers have opted for a particular school and a certain pedagogical-eductic approach, but then have to say goodbye to the identity of which they are the carriers and then start teaching from an entirely new pedagogical-eductic vision that they themselves have not chosen. Around the role of participation, we may have an amendment. I'm working on that. The underlying idea of this bill is actually that we want to offer more freedom to parents to choose the school that suits them. In the case of secondary education, this can also be about the pupils themselves. They can choose their beliefs, their vision of education and education. But isn't it logical to involve parent involvement in the quality test that the inspection takes? We have already raised this point in the written report, but the Minister's answers have not convinced us completely yet. We believe that it is important to secure participation. And to ensure that the initiative is real as the parents expect, we want to further strengthen the law through an amendment. Mr President, that was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you, Mr. Rog. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u137	Mr. Chairman. If you have children who are about to go to school, you want to be able to choose a school that best suits your child and your beliefs. Quality and proximity are important factors. The search goes through several schools for most parents, and through schools of different directions: public, jenaplan, Protestant, Christian, Catholic. In the end, it doesn't turn out to be so hard on the choice: parents are looking for a school that is in good quality order and that is a bit close to it. More and more schools are being sought that live in the changing society, that have innovative ideas and that try to organise education in a different way than traditional schools. It is good that parents have the freedom to choose between, for example, traditional schools and new concepts. I think it is a good thing that with this law, the law, we are going to give more room for new schools. But new schools to be set up must be of sufficient quality. This is not sufficiently secured by the current legislation and regulations. We're gonna bail that out with this law. As far as I am concerned, the title could have been: more room for quality schools. 'Cause we're gonna make demands on the new school to start. The school will be tested on the basis of quality requirements and citizenship, in order to gain a better understanding of the expected quality of the new school to be started. I have a question for the Minister. I agree with these developments. We must ensure that we get a better idea of the expected quality of a new school. But how does this "get insight" work in practice now? It seems to me very easy for the initiators of a school to paint on paper a beautifully rosy picture of what it probably looks like at school. We cannot prevent applications from being written in the direction of positive advice, but how is the Ministry going to pierce through that? How reluctant are we going to be in making a decision? Does this minister have a super-doubt-not-doing attitude? For the VVD it is important that possible new schools are in order qualitatively, comply with understanding of the adequacy requirements and the citizenship mandate. This makes them an enrichment for our educational landscape. Mr. Chairman. It may, of course, be that a new school, despite all its efforts and promises, does not meet the quality we expect from the school under this law. I am therefore very pleased that we can intervene earlier in these schools. We don't have to wait for the exam results anymore, but we can intervene sooner. But I do have a question for the Minister: can he outline how long it takes for such an intervention by the Minister to actually have effect? Mr. Chairman. This law does not allow schools that are very weak to open branches. That is absolutely right. Such a school must first adjust all sails to get the quality in order at the headquarters, before putting energy into spreading the wings. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, a school which scores an inadequate score must also focus its energy and commitment on its own establishment before it can spread its wings. A school that doesn't score enough itself, won't suddenly perform great at a new open location. If that were to be the case, it would seem to be at the expense of education and therefore of children at the headquarters. That is why the VVD has tabled an amendment to prevent secondary establishments from being opened by schools that do not score enough, not only very weak, but also insufficient. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks and D66 have tabled an amendment concerning advisory rights for municipalities. I can imagine. A further step could be the right of consent of the municipalities. The Minister must have felt very unhappy about what was happening in the Westland. No one there was waiting for the establishment of an Islamic school. There was massive resistance from the city council, but the school had to be there anyway. How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. This law applies to Dutch schools, but to what extent will this law also apply to foreign schools in the Netherlands? Not because we see problems at The British School, or the lycée français Vincent van Gogh, or The Japanese School. But we are talking here about new schools to be set up, and it would be a nice thing for me if this law could also prevent the creation of foreign schools from non-free countries, because, for example, they do not fulfil the citizenship mandate. Can you say something about this? Mr. Chairman. Then I have another question about the signatures that need to be placed at a town hall in order to gauge the enthusiasm for a new school. What's this signature worth? Will parents also be obliged to send their child to the relevant school when they sign it? Or can signatures be recruited in any prayer house to fake enough mood? How does the Ministry keep an eye on these kinds of developments? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that I am in favour of this law. The view of new schools to be founded is getting better and the quality goes up. No one can argue with that, I think. This is the end of my contribution, but not after I have said the following. We cannot perform without our employees, who are always there for us. That is why I would like to thank my colleague Jet Vlaanderen from this place, who unfortunately is leaving us. Thank you for all the contributions you've made. I couldn't have stood here like this without you, so thank you and good luck in your future career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u138	I can tell from here that Jet's getting a tan. Thanks. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u139	Yes, I think I am speaking on behalf of my fellow Members: I too would like to thank Jet for making it possible for Mr Heerema to be here. I have a question. Mr Heerema is concerned about schools to be set up in the future, in a broad sense. That's right. After all, it is about a bill that will last for a few years and that is about new schools. We now have the crazy construction of substitute nuclear targets. If schools find a core goal contrary to their beliefs, they can provide a substitute. There are conditions, but there is that possibility. We're going to tighten those core targets; that's what we're going to do with the curriculum review. We do not know what new schools would be set up. Would it not be wise, now that there is a broader possibility of setting up a school based on your own conviction, to remove the possibility of those substitute core targets? Then we know that at least what we have set out in the core objectives was taught at the end of the school career to every schoolchild in the Netherlands, regardless of the belief in life or the didactic vision of a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u140	For me, there is no taboo about how we ensure that good education is provided in schools that are newly established. If this ultimately leads to better education and children with more baggage entering society, I am certainly prepared to look at that. I am also a little concerned about some of the issues that lie in the adequacy requirements. That is why I am pleased that this debate will be held in two weeks' time. We also need to tighten it up, because also with the adequacy requirements you still have a very wide range that you can use as a school, which makes a difference in how children deal with it and get into society. If you have a proposal for that, I'd be happy to see it. I do not know whether you have tabled an amendment to that effect. I haven't been able to look at them all yet, because there are quite a few things that have become so slowly; they are 30, I think. But: yes, let me think along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u141	I cannot blame Mr Heerema for not having read all the amendments, because they were indeed quite a few. This is, by the way, a good time to thank my colleague for her commitment, with all these amendments. Great, Petra! But of course there is also an ideological question, namely: do we want a basic level that we impose on all schools? Do we want to set the core targets for all schools or not? In my opinion, you are undermining the core targets, and we will talk about that by allowing us to exchange core targets for something else, to provide a substitute. Does Mr. Heerema share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u142	Of course, it depends on what that substitute looks like and whether you have similar outcomes. If we can get out of there and if it's wearable in the Chamber, we just need to be able to watch it. I don't think that's more than logical. We all want kids to come to the ice as well as possible for their career after school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u143	I must have had a peep in my ear, because I thought I heard Mr Rudmer Heerema say that he wants a right of consent for congregations. But then he puts the axe at the root of our Constitution. I'm sure he didn't really say it. I think I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u144	What I have literally said is that there is an amendment by GroenLinks and D66 on advisory rights for municipalities. I have indicated that the right of consent for municipalities would be a step further. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. It is purely a question; I do not yet give my own opinion on it. It is a question for the Minister: how does he view it, with the situation in the Westland and the Islamic school in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u145	I understand it was a question, not a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u146	I am always very much in favour of the right of assent instead of the right of advice, but not in this case, because then we might as well throw away this law. Then there won't be a new school, I'm sure. Moreover, I do not agree at all with regard to the conflict with the Constitution, but we will be discussing it in a moment. I have a very different question. While Mr Heerema says here that he is happy with the space that is coming, his colleague Wiersma is now destroying Article 23. I wonder how that relates to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u147	My group chairman, Mr Klaas Dijkhoff, said earlier that we have a problem in society with a number of schools and that there should be no taboos in the search for solutions. If a tightening up of Article 23 would be possible or necessary, there is no taboo for us to think about it. Mr Wiersma repeated this on the radio with Sven Kockelmann this morning. I do not think there is any light between what Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Wiersma and I see in Article 23 when it comes to how we deal with a problem that we experience in society and how we should look for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u148	I'm afraid that's true. I'm afraid there's not much light in there. For me, the summary of what the VVD says here is: it is nice when there is a constitutional freedom, but it is just as different for one person as for the other. And that brings me to the point that he pointed out that we should take a look at these schools from abroad to see if we could just admit one school and put the other school to a rigorous review. This is clearly dependent on the regime under which that happens. That is precisely the problem of this kind of constitutional freedoms: they apply to everyone to the same extent. So you have to find a solution for that. Then, in my view, it is better to say: let us be very careful about putting aside constitutional freedoms if they are abused, but let us take action against the abuse. That's another thing. Does Mr Heerema agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u149	I have tried to say that there are no taboos for us to solve the problems we are facing. If the route you have in mind, probably with good proposals in it, hopefully it will be; perhaps it will not be a common route, then we will follow it if we can. We're here for the Law more room for new schools. We could make provision in that law for schools which are now being financed abroad to be located in the Netherlands and which are not covered by this scheme to be included in that scheme. We could consider whether that is necessary, useful and possible. Even if it's just to prevent something from happening that you wouldn't want and that you'll regret in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u150	Mr. Chairman, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u151	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u152	The point is, of course, that we want every school in the Netherlands to be good. That's why we're gonna look in the front of this bill and we're gonna see what the real quality is soon afterwards. Is it a safe school, too? Do we meet all the requirements? That should apply to all schools, right? You cannot say: if it is a school founded from America; well, there is a very good government at the moment; topland, let it come; we do not have to look at it so much. And if it's a school founded from Saudi Arabia, we have to be very careful. Don't you just have to make demands on every school? That doesn't depend on which direction that school is headed or on any conditions. You have to treat them right away. You have to make the same demands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u153	I put it in a questioning form with the Minister. How do we deal with foreign schools in relation to this Law more room for new schools? Nothing's been arranged for that right now. I have a motion in my back pocket to arrange this for all schools, all foreign schools. It's not just about schools from a particular regime. It is also a question of schools from America which, of course, is also a certain regime, namely the United Kingdom or Japan. These are the new schools they want to establish in the Netherlands. I don't make a distinction in that. I don't think I said that at all. I put the question to the Minister. We have a motion in our back pocket, Mr Rog, and we hope that we will get a good answer from this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u154	Sorry, Mr President, Mr Heerema may well say that he did not say that, but he did say that. He said: can we not make a distinction here now between countries with such regimes? I do not know exactly what it called "free countries' and "free countries', I say for a moment? That's not in the motion, that's fine. But I'm responding to what's being said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u155	We're talking about new schools to be set up. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could use this law to stop the creation of foreign schools from non-free countries. I literally said that. But the review to include them in this Law more room for new schools applies to all schools from abroad. Not just for that, but here is my focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u156	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u157	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u158	Oh, you were ready? That's good to hear. Thank you, Mr. Rudmer Heerema. Short and powerful, that's right. Mr Bertema has the floor, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u159	The VVD is no longer taboo, Mr President, when it comes to Rule 23. God's peace has been disturbed. Mr. Chairman. The summary of the explanatory memorandum explains that the freedom of education and the pluralism of education are under pressure. This pluralism has been in place for a long time, but a cooperation of stakeholders has apparently concluded that the legal possibilities need to be extended. The procedures currently in force make the establishment of a new school more difficult than is necessary, says the government. With the increasingly changing preferences of parents, this cabinet wants a more up-to-date and more flexible school base. The explanatory statement even says that it has now become virtually impossible to start a new school. Impossible: that's what it says. Mr President, you have already guessed: we think that is a gross exaggeration of the state of affairs. There is a caricature of the pluralism that has characterised our education system for a long time, while there is no solid and clear justification for such a rigorous change in the current system, as the Council of State also points out. We see too few examples that give us a good and clear picture of why the current directional planning would not do enough justice to new initiatives from schools. Let me explain. We have seen and still see a plethora of new education systems. They've all managed to get a place. I am thinking of schools of education, avatar schools, so-called democratic schools, sociocratic schools and iPad schools. You can go on like this for a while. How diverse do you want it to be, in combination with schools with a certain sense of direction? As far as I am concerned, there is no lack of room for new schools. There is far too much room for new schools and for totally irresponsible experiments with children. This bill will prompt many parents who are comprehensible for new trends and educational hypes with the best intentions, understand me well, but totally irresponsible to deal with those narcissistic educational gurus that are at the root of the iPad schools or democratic schools, which have completely fallen under the spell of that scientology-like club Avatar. Just a quote from one of those schools' mission. In this case it is the school under the new-Dutch name "Sparkling Kids." The underlying title is, also in New-Dutch: empowering kids to reach for the stars. That school operates under the next adage. I'm just gonna call the minister's old teacher to listen to this. Here he goes: "The child may gain knowledge and experience when it is ready and in the way it wants. Every child can make their own choices. A child KNOWS like no other (...)" That "knowing" is in capital letters: you know, that KNOWING that I don't quite understand. But a lot of people seem to understand that. "It is our mission to allow each child to determine its own development and to witness this only." And then he comes, and I really think that's the most beautiful thing: "Every child is a mirror in which we can look without judgment to see our pain (...)" Our pain, Minister? I don't know: the pain of society? I go on: "(...) to heal" "and to overcome our greatest fears and to give love from connection, so that our collective consciousness heals" "Mr. Van Meenen, stay with it for a while "and no longer continues from generation to generation." Mr. Chairman. This is from a mission of a school in funded education that we all pay for. I say, teach them to read, teach them to write, teach them to count! That is what education is supposed to do, and that is precisely what the current education system is no longer capable of. And that is the shame of this cabinet. My question to the Minister is this: do this bill to ensure that experimental new-school schools, which do not add anything to our educational landscape and at this time of severely declining apprenticeships, are completely free! Are irresponsible, kept out of the door? Or can we expect a proliferation of all kinds of developmental visions, which unsuspecting parents with pedagogic whining enchant and whole cohorts of students because that's what it's all about! Will they be burdened with learning and development gaps? Let that be the case, I call the Minister. Make sure this law blocks these child experiments, because that's what they are. Mr. Chairman. The next topic. In order to demonstrate that there is sufficient enthusiasm for a new school, this bill allows for two methods: the parental declaration and market research. In doing so, the initiator can decide which method to use. This, combined with demographic research, should then lead to that long-term forecast. We have some doubts about this proposed method. These parental statements, for example, are not binding. Other colleagues have already mentioned it. Does your kid go to that school? Well, not a lot. Could it not be that parents who are not powerful in the Dutch language are used to get enough parental statements? Another important question I also put to the Minister is whether the system with which DigiD is deposited at DUO can withstand fraud. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The aim of this proposal is to introduce an ex ante test with quality requirements which new schools must meet in order to be eligible for funding. Quality aspects have so far played no part in this decision to finance or not to finance a new school. Before the start of a new school, this application is intended to be assessed against the requirements of soundness which may indicate the expected quality of the school. For example, it is proposed to advise the inspection under the application procedure on the expected quality. This will give effect to my adopted motion of October 2015. Yes, Mr President, a motion from me was adopted once, this one! That motion asked the government to legislate to allow the inspection to check for quality standards before a new school starts. I tabled that motion in order to prevent the arrival of the Foundation for Islamic Education on the basis of quality standards, quality standards which the college closed in 2010 year by year could not meet. We find it very worrying that it is stated that didactic action and learning outcomes cannot be tested in advance. A learning result as a criterion is indeed difficult. Sure, you can't do that. But of didactic action, an indication and an expectation can be drawn up. I was just talking about it in an interrupting debate. I refer, for example, to my quote from Sparkling Kids' mission. Similar schools give an idea of what to expect. How does the Minister feel about that? He's been a teacher like me for years, and I suspect he agrees with me as a teacher at least. If we do not map out the intended didactic actions, then we must prepare for the next failed experiments with children. As a legislator, we cannot allow that, so please find a solution from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a very brief word about my amendment. That amendment provides that the application for funding of a new school to be set up shall be refused by the Minister if the underlying vision of life does not relate to the principles of the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the equality of men and women, of lhbti+, and of dissidents and believers, as enshrined in the Constitution. I want it at new schools to be set up now finally at the front. We need to build in legal instruments to exclude unpleasant ideologies from our educational system. So much for that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u160	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr. Chairman. I don't know if it has anything to do with my age, but I have to confess...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u162	You're not that old. It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u163	Thank you, thank you. There are some of those events that remind you of past events from your childhood. Then you're going to make unnoticed comparisons between what it was like then and what it is now. For the SGP as a party and group, this bill is such an event. The proposed direction-free planning reminds us of the situation of education about a hundred years ago, the time of our party's youth. At that time, any group of parents who were big enough could start a school. There was no request for direction, profile or identity. And I have to say: in that system, the SGP is in itself well-suited. The variation in beliefs and opinions was and is great in society. In particular, education is explicitly concerned not only with religious beliefs, but also, for example, with educational visions. This is an extremely relevant debate. What is your view on the child and on equal opportunities? The question is: should the government determine which vision is the best or what space it gets in education? Or does this choice, of course within the framework of the democratic rule of law, belong to society, to parents? The bill on that is clear. It's not the government that decides this. This bill is a powerful step in the direction of confirming that. The SGP considers the bill to be a sensible choice, leading to a win-win situation: the government has lost a problem and society is richer in freedom. However, the SGP has the necessary concerns in this proposal. After all, society is no longer the society of the past. The landscape of desires and views has become more erratic and the risks of problems are therefore greater. I therefore put three questions at the heart of my contribution. Firstly, how high should the threshold be for new schools? Secondly, how do we ensure reliable and stable engagement? And third, how do we get a good start? Firstly, how high should the threshold be? So it's about foundation standards. About 25 years ago, the Foundation standards for schools were raised to 200 pupils. The practice has become that the demands are almost the same everywhere, whether you live with 70,000 inhabitants in the city of Assen, or with 15,000 inhabitants in the municipality of Asten. The previous cabinet announced a roadmap, in which the foundation standards would also be adjusted, but the government now indicates that this is no longer the intention. We understand the considerations in this respect, but the question remains whether these standards can be set up in a slightly smarter way than they are at present. My question to the Minister is: is he willing to explore alternative scenarios again so that you could do a little more customization? The profit of the discussions on small schools is, in any case, that we no longer have to include the scenarios in that corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mr Bishop of the SGP indicated three important conditions. He has questions about that. But I don't hear the word "quality" at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u165	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u166	Okay, I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u167	I am going to talk about this, but thank you for your attention. Mr. Chairman. What I missed in the contribution of a number of colleagues is some well-founded attention to public education. Then I thought: let me take that on, because it is good to focus on that. The SGP would like to ask the Minister to look again at the article of law on the foundation of public schools. We believe that there is at least a need for further clarification. The article states that there must be at least 50 different parents, after which the municipality must carry out another measurement of interest. I have four questions. First of all, simply: are we talking about 50 individual parents or 50 parent couples? There has to be some clarity about that. Then there is the second question: why is the number of parents centralized here, while the number of children counts in the measurement of interest? Thirdly, why is no relationship with municipality size or population density included? This is in line with an earlier point I made: is it logical that the number of parents is the same in the city of Groningen, for example, as in the municipality of Doesburg? The fourth question: why is a double measurement mandatory? If the statements already show sufficient interest, is that not necessary? Why isn't the possibility of DigiD used here right away? I am considering an amendment on this point, but I await the Minister's reply first. This is about how high the threshold should be. Then the second: the measurement of interest. How do we ensure reliable involvement? In 1920 the legislator chose a model of parental statements when starting schools and that was an understandable choice. You can expect initiators to contact themselves directly and actually warm up enough parents for their school, their intended school? The most reliable measurement you get when parents officially have to sign with the government under a concrete initiative. The government is therefore right to say that the advantage of the new system is that parents get a vote by measuring their real interest. According to the government, it is the parent statements that reflect the real interest and that measure the direct support for a concrete initiative. Clear. Therefore, the SGP does not understand that the government still leaves the free choice for market research. The argument that market research measures the same as the parent statements is, in my view, only partly correct. It shaves past the problem. The subject is indeed the same, but the approach and the results differ substantially. What exactly is the need for this free choice? "Free choice" always sounds nice, but in this case it means above all the risk of unequal opportunities for parents of children in primary school. Initiators with a sturdy wallet can easily achieve what with parental statements is sometimes more difficult with market research. I have therefore tabled an amendment with Mr Rog to allow only as a derogation from the market research rule, for example in a new building district. If we want to make real profits in relation to the current situation, we should take the parent statements as the starting point as the most reliable and stable commitment guarantee. With modern techniques and media, this model will also be excellently workable in 2020. In my opinion, this also reduces the risk of short-term whims in the educational offer that good schools during the pop-up moment of those fashionable new schools can cause harm. That is also a risk that Mr Bruins pointed out. In the preparation my attention was drawn to the possibilities of foreign providers to operate in the Netherlands. The government states that it is possible for a foreign initiator to establish a legal entity in the Netherlands to provide education. Is it also possible to receive funding as a foreign legal person for a school in the Netherlands? The law doesn't seem to mention any restrictions. In fact, by excluding only schools intended only for foreign children, there is the impression that no other requirements apply. Is it not wise to arrange for the legal person to be established in the Netherlands? This will prevent possible complications in surveillance. That brings me to the third point, the monitoring. How do we get a good start? The SGP appreciates the government's willingness to take into account the essential distinction between quality requirements and other elements of quality in the preceding quality test. The way in which this is done and how it has been worked out does not convince us directly. It is clear that the six requirements mentioned are indeed legal requirements. But if you look at the remaining six requirements and conditions, you will see that, in my opinion, there are at least four or five of them also valid requirements. That creates confusion. An element such as the safety of the students is a necessity. Quality assurance is a necessity. That can be traced back to the same legal requirements. The only real exception seems to be the point about housing expectations. Can the Minister explain again why, in itself, this important distinction between quality requirements and other elements of quality is needed in the quality test? The omission of this distinction could, in my opinion, avoid confusion with regard to the application. The SGP believes that the prior inspection test is based on the legal conditions. For example, the documents discuss in detail the fight against segregation. Can the Minister confirm that combating segregation is not part of the quality test on citizenship, however desirable it is to prevent segregation where this is only slightly possible? Combating segregation is not part of that quality test because it is not a necessity. It's not a clear legal condition. Mr. Chairman. The SGP considers it important that there should be no start-up of schools that are clear in advance that the initiative is unopposed. Why should we start a school if there are still totally insufficient teachers in June? We must avoid waste of taxpayers' money and risks for students as much as possible. Since 2013, schools have therefore been required to demonstrate before the start of funding that they meet key issues such as the presence of competent teachers. According to the SGP, this test has more value than the paper test carried out more than one year before the start of the funding. I do not understand why this competence for primary and secondary education is removed from the law, and then it only applies to special education. I tabled an amendment together with Mr Rog to undo this and to maintain it as a requirement. Nor is it clear to me why the Minister states that this test cannot prevent the start of the school. Competent and competent staff is simply a requirement. Especially when a school starts, it must be adequately provided for. The law explicitly mentions enforcement when schools are still failing two months after risk analysis. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a brief comment on the fight against red tape. Consultation is good, but the proposed consultation obligation raises questions. I understood from an example that I saw that a new secondary school in Zaandam should invite 33 boards, and many more schools to speak. Is this really desirable and workable? The SGP looks forward to answering the questions put to it, in order to be able to make a clear assessment of this legislative proposal. I would say that we support the thinking behind the proposal, but for us the impact is decisive. The amendments also play a crucial role in this. Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to speak among all my dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr. Bishop said something interesting in a sense, namely: fighting segregation wherever possible. Now there is a proposal from Mr Westerveld and me to consider in the application phase the contribution a school can make to combating segregation. I thought I heard from Mr Bishop that he did not want that, that he did not want to see the degree of segregation involved in the preliminaries programme, the extent to which the school contributes to it being taken into account in the application for the establishment of a new school. So how do these two things relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u170	It's not that hard, I guess. We all agree that where education can contribute and where schools can contribute to reducing segregation, the possibilities for schools are very limited, I would add that schools should take advantage of this opportunity in particular. Only, reducing, countering segregation is not a necessity. In the belief of the SGP, in order to have an objective package to assess the possibility of the foundation of such a school, you need to fall back on direct legal requirements. But otherwise you can say: this is the political wish. But, yes, the political will is rather variable. That gives a lot of uncertainty and if you're not careful a piece of legal inequality. That is why we do not want to include this in the preliminary draft.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u171	I always think it is risky to start a legislative debate with an SGP, because they usually know a lot about it. But if there is an amendment that says that a segregation test must be carried out, has it by definition become a legal requirement? Within the possibilities that Mr Bishop has just described, it is one of the ways to do something about segregation, which he thinks we should always seize?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u172	If it is introduced into this legislative proposal by means of an amendment, it has become a legal requirement, but when it comes to adequacy requirements, you are talking about other legislation. In a few weeks' time, we will have the debate on adequacy requirements. When this amendment is discussed, I would like to discuss whether it is desirable to formulate it as a justification. Then I'll be against it, I'm afraid, but that's where the discussion should take place. We should not add an extra-legal requirement at this point in time in the context of the possibilities for setting up new schools. That is a matter of state-law care and purity, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u173	I have the impression that we are talking about two different things. We say in our amendment: there are requirements for validity, but we would also like to see the measures taken by a school to prevent segregation, so that the Minister can then take that into account in his opinion. That seems to me to be something other than what Mr Bishop is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u174	I believe that it follows from my argument that the assessment of the possibility, the admissibility of the establishment of the new school, must be based on robustness requirements, on legally anchored soundness requirements. Once again, I wholeheartedly agree that schools, wherever possible, contribute to countering segregation. But that's not a necessity. From a legal point of view, it is more purer to clearly define that set of requirements. That's the review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u175	However, in setting up a new school, there are, of course, even more things to look at, in addition to requirements of soundness. We say, precisely because we are afraid that this bill will increase the division: include what schools are going to do to prevent that division.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u176	I understand what you're saying. I also know what you're saying, but if you want to be able to test such an application objectively, objectively, objectively, then you need a fixed legally anchored package. So you're gonna come up with those robustness requirements. Hence our question mark. We wonder whether you should include that second set of requirements in the review of the application for a new school in this way. If that were to become a criterion, it would simply have to be included in the legal requirements. That should then come back to the subject in some time's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u177	That was as always a perplexed speech by Mr Bishop. I noticed the following, and I noticed that in Mr Bruins' contribution. Let us go back to 100 years ago and look at the intention of the legislator at the time. Mr Bishop says more or less the same as Mr Bruins, namely that at the time the legislator intended to set up direction-free planning. Did I listen to that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u178	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u179	What if that's how it turned out? Let's say that I'm just saying what someone in 1920 had invented "we're going to set up a montessori school" and someone else started a Protestant school at the time. I do not know how it went in 1920, but we came into a practice in which Protestant and Catholic schools were given the opportunity to refuse people at the gates, for example because they were not baptized, or because they are not members of the church. You couldn't have done that at a montessori school. It's hard to tell from someone if it's a montessorian. Isn't the logical consequence that the legislator didn't intend at the time that these schools could also refuse people at the gates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u180	No, I don't think that's the logical consequence. I think that at the time the system was incorporated into the system that the board that founded the school, consisting of parents, was pursuing the policy in that respect. As far as I know and know from my historical baggage, that was much more so at that time than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u181	Yes, but Mr Bishop is not getting away with it. He himself states that it was the legislator's intention at the time to set up direction-free planning. I do not know how we have ever found ourselves in a situation where there is no general accessibility and in which boards, which today are made up of professional drivers, can refuse children at the gates. This could never have been the intention of the legislator at the time if it had really wanted direction-free planning. In fact, in a lot of these directions, it would not be possible to determine whether such a person was admissible at all at the gate. You have to go along with that reasoning, and don't say it too easily: yes, but it wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u182	I think I understand where the confusion is. Direction-free planning didn't mean that the school didn't assume a certain distinct identity. The identity was Roman Catholic, reformed, Christian-national, and so on. Direction-free planning means that the government was not sent to or taken into account the question of which denomination or identity such a school is known to. But such a school itself, just those parents who joined forces and pulled a school off the ground by mobilising other parents, often acted very consciously from their own identity. There the line was sometimes very strict, so of "you are not baptized, then you cannot be admitted." You referred to that as well. Nowadays, there is usually a more nuanced approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u183	It is, but I am concerned about the substance and purpose of the legislator. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that if it was really the legislator's intention at the time to make direction-free planning possible, it could never have been so that it could have been selected at the gate? Couldn't have done that for a lot of directions, could it? Imagine if there had been someone who set up a monessori school. On what basis should that group have said: yes, but of this child can we not see that we can give it a montessori training? You can't do that, can you? Surely that could never have been the intention of the legislator?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u184	No, I think it's even inherent to the system. You call montessori schools. Suppose a student gets signed up and says, "I don't need anything from your education system." Montessori is, of course, primarily a pedagogical principle and not a philosophical principle. It is said: of your teaching principle, your teaching principle I should have nothing; I think you should work according to the strict... Then there's room to say that someone like that really needs to find another school? That was the case at the time and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u185	This comparison is completely flawed, because that would mean that someone could report to a Catholic school, for example, with the communication: I think that there should be a Protestant education here. That is not at all a reason for someone to be rejected, but it is because someone has not been baptized. I'm talking about someone who's fine with the way that school works. We will continue this debate during the discussion on Rule 23...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u186	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u187	... but prepare yourself for a follow-up to these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u188	It is clear that there are a lot of smoke clouds here and there is a lot of confusion. I like to do my part to clear up mist curtains once in a while. I'm happy to be of service to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u189	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u190	It is always nice to see when Mr Bishop has come to the point that he doesn't really remember himself either. No! Mr. Chairman. I'm the last speaker. I'll summarize it and then we'll come together and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u191	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u192	By the way, we have found that Sparkling Kids is not a funded school to my great reassurance. However, it is an additional reason to say what I have been saying for a long time, together with others, namely that inspection at such schools should be given an even stronger role. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u193	This is an additional reason for Mr Beertema to make a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u194	I am glad that Mr Van Meenen has brought this up. I had seen it myself; it was a slip of the tongue. It is a private initiative that operates with the consent of the inspection. It costs €6,900 a year per kid, per Sparkling Kid. But then you've got nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u195	You took the words out of my mouth! We laugh about it, but in light of what we saw yesterday: at the inspection seems to be some sort of impotence, so to speak, to really act where necessary. We'll talk about that later. However, that is why I am pleased that my request for a debate on the scheme has been accepted today. To be continued. Mr. Chairman. More space, that always feels good for me when it comes to education. Today we are dealing with the law to give more room to establish new schools. This tests all the quality of education at the front, so that there can be no experiment with children. In addition, we release the fixed denominations from the compartmentalisation and there will be room for new educational concepts. There is also a strict test for drivers, so not everyone can start a school anymore. D66 is in favour of this law, but still has a few concerns. Mr. Chairman. This change of law gives room for educational renewal, as I said. When setting up a school, you no longer need to be covered by recognized denominations such as Roman Catholics, Protestants, general special et cetera. That is a nice development, but we also do not want to experiment with children. There must be a well-founded basis in the interests of the child's development and not an interest of, for example, the competitiveness or marketing of a school. This misleads parents and shifts the focus from good education to recruiting pupils. How does the inspection now assess new educational concepts on quality, I ask the Minister. For example, should there be a scientific basis from the NRO? Can the Minister explain how the education inspection supports new schools working with a new educational concept? Mr. Chairman. In the last State of Education it is stated that concept schools attract a specific group of pupils and contribute to segregation in the cities. Of course, the segregation at school level has many causes, but this law could contribute to this. Here's a concern for D66. The purpose of the law is to match the needs of parents, but the needs of parents may conflict with the best interests of the child. For example, it may be a need for parents to put their child alone with like-minded people in school, thereby promoting social and economic segregation. This has implications for the quality of education and opportunities for children. It worsens the socialising role of the school. Children do not learn to handle different values and backgrounds properly. The Minister states that this law aims above all to improve the functioning of the freedom of education. D66 does not consider this to be sufficient under the system of responsibility of the Minister. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. What is the intended effect of this law on segregation at school level? How will the Minister monitor the distribution of the apprenticeship population? Will the Minister monitor this in the evaluation? Is he possibly already carrying out an evaluation after three years or informs the Chamber annually? With these extended possibilities, D66 wants a more explicit citizenship mission. Others have already said something about this. When is the Minister coming up with this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u196	This more explicit citizenship mission seems sensible to me, but what exactly does Mr Van Meenen want from the Minister? The Minister has clearly stated that this bill is not about segregation. I hope the Minister can convince me, but you can still draw the consequences. If you give more space to set up schools on a philosophical or ideological basis, these schools will often attract people with primary beliefs or didactic vision above average, with which you will de facto gain more segregation in education. That is the essence of this law. Then what does D66 want the Minister to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u197	I have a few suggestions. I'll bring it up in a minute. I have also tabled amendments on this. There's a tension; I can't take it away either. I think it is important that there should be more space than the space that exists now, but at the same time we also have another task with each other. I want to keep an eye on that, and I just want the consequences of this law to be looked at. That's actually the most important thing. I can't exactly predict the future either, but I want us to monitor it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u198	My point is precisely that where we may not be able to predict the future, we can assess the effects of this law fairly well. You offer more room for new schools on more grounds. So there will be more schools based on specific grounds that will attract children whose parents are attracted to those specific grounds. That's the essence of this law, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u199	Sure, but that's not automatically segregation. I'm not saying that a dalton school automatically has a segregating effect. I don't see why. So we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u200	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u201	Mr. Chairman. In secondary education there is mainly a segregation by level of education. There are more and more categoral schools. Children go to high school with pupils of the same level and are thus separated by level of education from their 12th birthday. They no longer grow up together and learn not to see each other's talents. As a result, the broad bridge classes disappear and as a result there are literally physical barriers. You don't just have to change classes, you have to change schools as well. Away from your friends, away from trusted teachers. We have also written it down in the coalition agreement: we want broad schools. Well, if that's what we want, then we shouldn't really want any more narrow schools. Hence my amendment to demand that new secondary schools are also large schools. By that, I mean schools with at least three types of education. That is the amendment to item No. 29. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u202	I can imagine that new schools in a region, a shrinkage region or, for example, an island, can meet a need to offer education, which is difficult to have three directions within a school. How do you accept this amendment? It would be a shame if children had to travel extra far for a school because three directions would necessarily have to be offered, while perhaps they would just be able to follow good quality education if this was not required.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u203	Especially in a region where there is shrinkage, the worst thing we can do is offer categories schools. We have discussed this in detail in the budget. In fact, we have agreed in our coalition agreement that it is very important that we have broad schools, with broad bridge classes. If we now open the gate for more narrow schools, then I think that is exactly the wrong way, even in shrinking regions, or perhaps just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u204	I also have a question about this, because my group's assessment is that most of the new schools will come into the limited growth regions we have, for example in Amsterdam. Now there are quite a few broad schools and categoral gymnasia in Amsterdam. There is a lack of lycea with only vwo and gymnasium, but that is not allowed by D66 anymore, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u205	Those schools are here. I don't know why there's no such thing, but those schools didn't just show up. These are often broad schools that have narrowed their offer for all kinds of reasons, often for marketing purposes. That is what we are looking at now, even from the coalition agreement, and I would just say once again that it is an undesirable development. So I don't want there to be cherrypicking, to add a nice category school, for a group. No, we aim to give children more room to grow, in broader bridge classes. Then I don't think we should open the gate now for any more category schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u206	Mr Van Meenen repeats himself. I've heard that. What I would like to tell him is that in one of the few growth areas in the Netherlands, where possible in secondary education, this new law, which people are dying for, for example in Amsterdam, they need the school type atheneum-gymnasium. What this amendment does is prohibit it, because D66 only wants new schools if there are three, but they are already there, just like category gymnasia. That's what's not there yet. I would say: there are still D66s in Amsterdam,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u207	Sure. That's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u208	Talk to me about that. I'd say this isn't wise, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u209	I do not know how Mr Rog means that; not wise. On the contrary, I am very concerned about the trend towards an increasing reduction in competition. My party doesn't need to open the gate for it wider than it already is. We can agree on that or not, but my party chooses to admit large schools and not narrow ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u210	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u211	Mr. Chairman. The same story also applies to primary schools, but something else. Primary schools are in ever closer cooperation with childcare. There are more and more integrated child centres, all-in-one schools, and you name it. Good co-operation between childcare and primary school can be very important for children for all kinds of reasons, even if it is only to prevent early language delays, to look at children from a pedagogical point of view, rather than just from a labour market point of view. That's why D66 wants every new primary school to commit to at least one child care provider, as you know, my new portfolio, but that's not what it's for to promote intensive cooperation. To this end, I have the amendment on item No. Twenty-five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u212	I have a question about that, but not after I have said that I am very pleased with the focus of D66 on that link between education and childcare. It is also good that Mr Van Meenen is our new spokesperson when it comes to childcare. On his amendment, I would like to ask what exactly is meant by 'a document showing that the competent authority will cooperate with at least one child care provider'. So this is a clear question, because I think it is a very interesting amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u213	Compared to the other amendment: you can make that clear in advance, so of 'the school has this direction'. That seems to be the case and the children who choose that direction are admitted. If you are looking for a cooperation between a funded educational institution and a private childcare facility, then that has to prove something. You can say "well, we always eat a sandwich together in the afternoon and that's all very nice," but that's not enough for me to support the depth of that collaboration. I assume that under such cooperation there is a set of arrangements. And that's what I mean by that document.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u214	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u215	Mr. Chairman. This law creates room for new schools, but what about existing schools? Can existing schools change colors? So let me just put it this way: can existing schools change denominations? And how does that process work when, for example, that denomination no longer plays an explicit role in daily education and no longer meets the wishes of parents and teachers at that school? If we make it very easy for a school when introducing this law as part of a kind of general pardon to change colors and adopt a color much better suited to the school than the color it had when it was ever founded, then you have a chance that very often it can be prevented that a new school is needed to meet the needs of parents. Mr. Chairman. How does the existing supply, I ask the Minister, assess whether a particular educational concept contributes to the development of the child? The Minister states that the schools in the region have the opportunity, in a conversation with a new school to be founded, to offer space in the existing offer and thus to integrate the desire of parents and pupils into the existing offer. However, this conversation is non-binding. Shouldn't it initially be more imperative to integrate in order to avoid unnecessary competition in, for example, shrinking regions? What role can an RPO, a regional plan for the provision of education, play in this, according to the Minister? Mr. Chairman. As discussed last week, the only option for a school within one board is to start a new school if one is not too satisfied. We've dealt with it extensively. "Vote with your feet" you'd say. Does this go ahead of the same process as described in this law, I ask the Minister, since there is an educational concept, a student offer and a school building? D66 once again asks whether there should be no alternative to allow defusion. Mr. Chairman. At present, municipalities hardly have a role to play in establishing new schools. All we have to do is to have a conversation between the initiators and the municipality. This is striking, since the municipality has a responsibility in the area of housing and also has a better picture than anyone of the existing offer in the area. Why did the Minister choose not to give the municipality an official advisory role in this legislation? The municipality may, among other things, advise on our aforementioned care regarding segregation. That is why D66 co-signed the GroenLinks amendment to give the municipality an explicit role. I would point out that in the past such a role was in the province within the framework of the Plan of Schools. Mr. Chairman. Thus, this law gives more scope, but at the same time is stricter, so that the interests and development of the child are put at the centre. We await the Minister's response with above-average interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u216	In view of the interruption by Mr Van Meenen in Mrs Van den Hul's contribution, I would have expected a few words from Mr Van Meenen about the obligation to accept. What's he like about that? And how does he feel about the appointment of teachers now that teachers can no longer be refused on the basis of their beliefs if they want to work at a school?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u217	Frankly, I do not think this is the place to have that debate. What I wanted to warn against in the interruption debate with Mrs van den Hul is that an amendment to Article 23 is seen as something we are going to help children with right away. This is also evident from the reaction to what became clear this week. But it's not. I think it is rather distracting from the discussion that we should be having, for example, on strengthening the inspection or on why the inspection cannot intervene at all; I do not know what happened yesterday at the Islamic schools. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u218	For example, I have a lot to say about this method of teaching'sexual diversity', and I have some ideas as to how we could do that. But let me make one point, for example. This is about starting new schools. The number of ideologies, religions and beliefs on the basis of which this is allowed is going to increase. In fact, therefore, I have a question that runs a little parallel to my question about segregation: does Mr Van Meenen not recognise the risk that there will soon be more schools that will refuse teachers or students on the basis of their belief? Wouldn't this be the right time to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u219	Well, that's the question. If you look at the offer as there is now in the Netherlands, it actually consists of two types: the funded offer and the non-costed offer. This may open the way for some non-cost schools to be funded. I hear something outside the microphone about the Sparkling Kids. If I were on the Committee of Inquiry, I would still have a single question about the Sparkling Kids before we would spend money on it. Anyway, that aside. It could also have a cleansing effect, but I would add that, and that is what I am constantly saying: then we must also be much stricter for everything we do not finance now. That is where the means of containing funding is lacking, because it is not available. I also asked questions about this: how can we look more closely at what is already there? So I really don't think it's going to increase that much. It's a kind of legalization of... Well, let me be careful: you put it more into the government. That's how I see it. And then maybe we'd better act, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u220	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u221	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u222	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for about an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u223	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Chamber, not only for the extensive written input that has taken place in connection with this legislative proposal, but also for the input that has just been made in the first term. It is a far-reaching and large legislative proposal, and some of you have also mentioned it. The legislative proposal focuses on the establishment of schools and the demands we make on them. I have noticed, however, that for some people, I understand that, because the temptation is great, it is also a good reason to extend it to some sort of system discussion, including from the freedom of education we have, and to make quite a few comments and to ask questions about it. Now I know that someday I will be expected back here for a more extensive debate on Article 23. I'm looking forward to that, too. If I were to discuss all this right now, I think we're still here until midnight, because that really takes some time. I hope, therefore, that you will forgive me if I am going to be brief when it comes to such questions, because we are going to talk about them much more in detail at a later date. That is also right for those who have requested this debate. Those are not here today; their group is, but the person in question is not. There's one more thing. I shall also draw your attention to a number of amendments. In a way, I do not think it is entirely appropriate for this to happen. The discussions to be held are legitimate: that is what you are a parliament for, and that is what we are a government for, and these are issues that can be discussed with me. A system discussion is about our laws and regulations, which is wider than just this law. In the end, it is even about the Constitution; it is not more important when it comes to legislation. It cannot be that you are now trying to regulate a number of things that are affected by this law, or that you are saying: if there are new schools, then that kind of freedom does not apply to those new schools. I say in all seriousness: that is really very wrong under state law. We shouldn't want that with each other. Again, I can't touch that. I've also been a Member of Parliament; I know how it works. Every Member of Parliament, of course, always has the right to say everything and to table amendments and motions for resolutions. However, I would like to point out that it is not possible under state law for you to say: there are now a number of spaces, freedoms, in this country that we do not like very much, but they are there and because this law is now there, and perhaps new schools are going to join us, we are going to make sure that those new schools do not get them. That's not how fundamental rights work. Fundamental rights are universal, and this comes to me deep inside. You shouldn't be getting involved in that. You can argue about it, if you think that a fundamental right would no longer be of this time or if you want changes. That is what we have done when it comes to Article 23. There are people who think it's all molded in concrete. As a Member of Parliament, I have seen that Article 23 has been amended in the framework of the school of cooperation by means of a constitutional amendment which our former Member of Parliament, Mr Cornielje, has worked hard on for many years. At the time, all three parties voted in favour of it. In short, this may be all right, but let us make sure that this legislative proposal does not restrict fundamental rights for a very selective number of schools that will be able to make use of the opportunities that will come about. Again, we shouldn't want that. Mr. Chairman. Before I go to the answer, I would like to make one more comment on the topicality of the day, this week, because questions have been asked about this too, and I understand that. This week there has indeed been coverage of education in one of our national newspapers, the NRC, in conjunction with a number of Nieuwsuur broadcasts: that of the first evening was about what we then call "informal education" and that of the second evening about funded education. That too goes beyond the context of the legislative proposal we are talking about, but I can inform you here officially that I asked the inspection today to do further research into what came out yesterday, including in the context of the citizenship mission of schools. I hope she will be able to report back on this quickly. Then, of course, I will inform the Chamber. That is what I would like to say on this subject at the moment, Madam President, because due care requires that we have that investigation now and that we will communicate the results to you in an orderly manner. That's just before I start the introduction to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u225	But I see two MPs already. Mr. Lordema, you want to interrupt already? Shortly, then, because the Minister still has to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u226	Yeah, but it's really about this phrase. I am pleased that the Minister has sent the inspection back to the Islamic schools, although I have my doubts because the same inspection that does not intervene is now being sent on the same mission. So my question is: how can you guarantee that the education inspection will come to a proper understanding with more knowledge or with more external support? We have seen that both the school in Maastricht and the Haga did not go well with the inspection. Now she also goes back to the Islamic schools. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u227	I have just indicated the current state of play with regard to the request I made at the inspection. They have, of course, taken that up, because if I ask them to do so, they have to do so too. I would like to ask the Chamber to just wait and see what will eventually come back. Of course, I will also be informed more about the course of events myself. I would also ask you not to pass all these judgments too quickly. This also applies to qualifications about other situations, which we could also debate for an entire evening. The question is whether this does justice to what has happened there. I have first heard some spokesmen's qualifications about the inspection, which I think: is this the way we should do it with each other? At least I'm trying to do it carefully. This is the step I've taken. When it comes back, we can have a full debate on that. Then you can ask all the questions, even when it comes to the run-up to the news services that have been there this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u228	I don't doubt the Minister's care. And of course we await the results of the ongoing investigations with great regret. However, as far as I am concerned, the Minister is going over a very important issue very quickly. Yesterday the NRC said that the inspection said: there is no reason for us to say 'we are intervening in this', because the borders of the democratic rule of law have not been crossed. Then there is a fuss in the media and the Minister says: I am sending the inspection back. How can we be sure that the inspection, even without the news media paying attention to this, has key objectives such as the social security of lhbt students well and sharply on the retina?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u229	I think this really goes beyond the debate we are having right now. Since there are questions about it, I have taken the opportunity to at least indicate how I have now taken it up. I was there when Mr Van Meenen asked for a debate on this, because the arrangement took place before the debate began.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u230	Yeah, that was this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u231	I'd like to do that very carefully. I am not just going to give improvising answers to these questions. I wouldn't do you any justice with that either. It is not only the case that we must do justice to the inspection, but I also want to do justice to you, including in the response. So I would like to make this procedural comment on how we are going to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u232	Again, I understand the Minister doesn't want to go into this matter further, because the investigation is still ongoing. But there is indeed a relationship with the bill we are discussing tonight. That is what I have said in my contribution. As far as I am concerned, when we talk about room for new schools, it is not just about pre-control and pre-security, but also about: how can we trust that the inspection will keep a close eye on the new schools once they have been established? That is what concerns have arisen from current events. That is why I see a reason to talk about it tonight in relation to this bill. I really think that the Minister is saying something too easy now: don't worry; we will come back to it. There are great concerns. We've had it for a long time. The Minister knows that, too. Earlier, the Minister said that the instruments of inspection are sufficient for this enforcement. We have seen before, also in relation to the Nashville Declaration, that there were concerns about, for example, the social security of lhbt. Those concerns do indeed relate to the legislative proposal we are discussing tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u233	Madam President, I would like to remind Mrs van den Hul, through you, that, just before the summer, we had a very extensive general discussion on the inspection, including the operation of the inspection. Mrs Van den Hul was not present. I have defended, on behalf of the cabinet, the addition of the instruments of inspection, because we find that this is not enough. Those are far-reaching additions. But I did it with conviction. You know my background, too. I really thought it was necessary. My statement has always been, I repeat, the freedom of education here today is a great asset, but it has a responsibility. If you don't fulfil that responsibility properly, then we have to act. We have indeed noticed that the inspection does not have sufficient tools for this. So that's what we've been working on. So that too is a discussion that is ongoing. It is perfectly legitimate, and it is indeed in place for this bill. Because if you're gonna give a little more space, then there's gonna have to be action when you need it. I will say later that we should not overdo that, but there can indeed be more room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mr. Kwint, are you going to ask the same question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u235	I have a more informative question. I am very pleased that the Minister has sent the inspection back to those schools and I am very curious about the outcome. In my own term, I have also asked some questions about other schools, about other teaching methods and about statements made by school administrators, in line with what Mrs van den Hul said. Since it has happened, I was curious to hear the Minister's explanation: is it in accordance with the law or not in accordance with the law? That certainly has implications for this bill. Did he use this to complete the block of "smoothness about sexual diversity"............................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u236	We didn't even start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u237	This is actually also covered by what I mentioned at the beginning. Questions are also being asked that go beyond this bill. We are talking about setting up schools and how that happens. And we are talking about the way in which we want to make some changes to it, because we believe that the current system simply does not work anymore. It's not like this anymore. That's what it's about. That's what the bill says. I would very much like to answer the many questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u238	Mr Kwint, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u239	I was curious to see the Minister's weighting and the answers to the questions I asked, because with the same argument you could say: if the current system is not already functioning in these areas, why would you throw it even more freely, when we already see that we are facing problems? That's exactly why I linked it to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u240	Mr President, may I begin now? Because I believe that this question will also be discussed in the future. Perhaps not as specific as Mr Kwint wants, but my initial remarks are indeed about what we are doing with this bill and why we want to do so. I just indicated that this bill is about starting schools. This also affects freedoms that we know in our educational system. On the one hand, there will be room for direction-free planning, so that parents' wishes can be better met than is often the case in today's practice. For this reason, I apologise to the Labour Party, the VVD, D66 and GroenLinks for the delay in carrying out this motion, which was tabled in November 1993. I can say that at least this cabinet has taken it up and that something is now being presented to you. We do that on the one hand, and on the other we weigh up the demands that are made at the beginning, at the front. Mr Beertema tabled a motion in October 2015. He has noted with some satisfaction that there are also occasional motions from him. That's right: it's accepted. That motion specifically affected Islamic education, but we have, of course, developed it more broadly, also in accordance with the Constitution, as I have just indicated to you. So we weigh up the accession at the front. Last week, in another debate, I said that I went through the old title of the bill: more room for new schools. That could indeed happen, but it could also work out this way, particularly with regard to this part, that there will be less room for new schools. Next time I will pay more attention to the titles of legislative proposals, because they are going to have their own lives. It's gonna get a little between the ears, and before you know it, you're gonna have a lot to fix. The elaboration of these two things, direction-free planning for which there is now room for and also the increase in joining, listens very closely. I was encouraged by the agreements made in the coalition agreement. You have all been able to read them: to increase the freedom of education, not to restrict the freedom of direction, but to make demands at the front. That's how I started working on the bill that was already there. On the basis of these agreements, a number of adjustments have indeed been made. But thinking has continued on the question of what is good and what might be good in practice. I will deal with some of your suggestions later, because I do believe that with a few adjustments we could make this bill even better. I'll come back to that later. I am truly convinced that if this bill becomes a reality, we will have a much better situation. If this bill were not to go ahead, we would be left with a system of agreements on the establishment of schools that are far from working properly. That is not an attractive perspective, I can tell you in all openness and honesty. Madam President. I made two blocks for the answer. These were some brief introductory remarks. The first block is about the demands we make on new schools. A number of issues are raised: the lack of the current system, the quality test, the measurement of interest, demands on the legal person, the obligation to invite, the early years of the school and how we deal with them, and some other issues, including the subsidiary location and the questions that have been asked about them. There's even an amendment in there. In the second block it is about direction-free planning. Then I'll also explain why we want to offer that space. I will deal with the segregation and everything that has been asked about it. A lot has been asked about that and I will try to answer that in a good way. I hope they're not gonna overstate that, but I'm gonna end up with public education. That is as sweet to me as the special education, because these are two sides of the education freedom medal that also fit very well together. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the lack of the current system. That is not just a remark in the vein of: we sometimes have a bit of a problem with that. No, we are incredibly affected by that! So what's the problem? First of all, the prognosis system that we now know does little justice to the real interest, because we assume a supposed interest. You know it all and I can therefore be brief, but we are doing it in a very complicated way with measurements and comparisons. If you go back to the newspapers and the media on this subject alone for a number of years, and look at what has not been a tragedy, then you don't have to go back that far at all. Think about what's going on in Westland, for example. There was also discussion about the comparison between Westland and Maastricht. We've said for a long time, so have I! That's not a good comparison. In the end, the Council of State decided otherwise, but that was an example that this system provoked. About Zoetermeer they can publish a whole book when it comes to those comparisons, including with Maastricht, Hoorn and Dordrecht. Every time it was said it wasn't right and there was a lot of trouble. There's been something in Weesp. There was something in Berg and Dal. Mr Rog has even put his finger on that, not directly because of that comparison, but because of the procedures, the deadlines and what it can bring if you have not paid attention for a day and you are already in the next phase of the application. That is because of the forecasts of interest, which must then be renewed. In short, the prognosis system is really not working properly. And every time we do that, we have damage. It's just waiting for the next one to show up in the country. Then there is the second reason why the system is inadequate. Only the recognised direction now plays a role in the right to finance. You have read in the explanatory statement a beautiful historical exhibition on how this has developed over time. And indeed, that was not the case from the beginning. It has been purely financial reasons to finally define that direction. They did that to control the costs. It is also interesting to see that it used to work a bit in the same way as sometimes with us. At the time, it was a bit like "Tom Kitty, invent a ruse." In practice, however, this also leads to situations where there is more and more discomfort, especially now that the cover-up is no longer working out this way in our society as it used to be. I come a little from a hidden environment, but I also experience that it is really not possible to explain that for that reason you have to reject a lot of requests, without being able to say in all reasonableness: that is why we do so and that is also logical. Moreover, it is also reasonably selective what has eventually become a recognised direction. Mr Kwint put his finger on that. An example from Eindhoven; it still plays. There, a montessori school, which already has two departments, would like to set up a vwo. But the segment, to put it this way, "generally special" that it includes, is already occupied by a Jenaplan school for the vwo. And so that application is out of the question. Anyone who has a little sense of this kind of concept knows that jenaplan and montessori are really something else, but it is under the heading "general special." At this moment in Schin op Geul a Catholic school is going to stop. There are 200 parents in the area who want to start a school with each other, but they run into everything. In Utrecht, a school said: of course, we want a school that complies with all laws and regulations, but with sustainability as a specific focus area. That was rejected twice, because that is not a recognised direction. There is an interest in it, or at least that has been included in the application. So that too is seen as a problem. Whatever you see happening in practice is that some people are using a direction, I don't say "abuse," because the law allows it, but it is uncomfortable because they know that in a particular area there is no place yet. Well, then you take that direction. You can make a story with that and then you can start as a school. But that sands and that cracks and that squeaks; we really shouldn't want that with each other. I'll come back to that later. What is also a major problem of the current system is that the quality test was simply not there. The Bertema motion, which was a little more detailed, but was carried out in width, was important for that. That quality test wasn't there. If after the direct measurements and the like you got the signal "we think there is enough potential for this direction," then you could push the ship off shore, without having looked with any eye at exactly what they were going to do in that school. Afterwards, supervision took place, but by that time the financing decision had already been taken. We do not want this to continue in this way towards the future. That's why we're going to make new demands. This brings me to my second part, the quality test. There's been some thought about how we're gonna do that. If we do a quality test at the front, you get what Mr Bruins said quite clearly: it's quite complicated, because you're going to judge something that isn't there yet. That is why it took quite a while to get that straight and make choices in a careful way. In the end, it has been chosen to use those six robustness requirements. You have been able to find them again. You can reasonably say that they give a reliable picture of the expected quality of a school to start. If you do that in a valid way............................................. Then you also see whether or not it is justified to start such a school, if at least the other side is satisfied, in the study of the numbers. I shall come back to the measurements of these numbers separately, because an amendment has also been tabled on this subject. Mr Bishop so we know him, of course, and I understand that. I will inform you that I did the same in the preliminary stage myself. For indeed, these are the requirements. That's what legal security is for. Then we also have other requirements of quality, 'elements of quality' I believe we call it in the language used here. In fact, there are also requirements to be met. Then the question is also justified as to why we have so distinguished it from each other. We believe that the six-year-old set could perhaps be extended a little; I shall come back to that in a moment to have a solid basis in order to finally give the judgment that one can start. But also the other demands are going to play in a school from day one. It also becomes one validity requirement immediately from day one, so then the non-committality is completely removed. At the time you pass that test, you can't say in all reasonableness that it is sufficiently testable to base an opinion on it, precisely because it has yet to start. That's why we made two baskets of them. Now I am sensitive to the remarks made by the Chamber about these concept schools. I am not sensitive to the fact that in one remark all these concept schools are parked on the sidelines, such as: that is nothing at all. Because there are very well thought-out concepts, some even with scientific research. That is not always possible and scientific research does not say everything, because you know that you can always find a scientist for a position you have. Those concept schools are here. Indeed, there is an increasing interest in this. How can we ensure that if you then get a school based on a certain concept of a school that simply has to meet the robustness requirements that lie there, which is considered equally well at the start and at the time of admission in that research framework that the inspection uses for that purpose? I actually wanted to suggest to you that one of the quality elements that are in it is that I am waiting to hear what you yourself have to say about it, namely quality policy, because that is what it has to do with, then you also have to explain why you are making certain choices to shift the other elements of quality from the set of other elements of quality to the adequacy requirements, so that, through that instrument, I will come back to the fact that there are still a number of guarantees to be given, so that we can look much more closely at the concepts that are given, whether or not with scientific support. That is not possible everywhere, and that is why you cannot put it as an absolute demand, I say in the direction of Mr Kwint, who, in my view, has tabled an amendment on it. It just goes a little too far to do that rigidly, but we made sure that it doesn't just walk away and that it's only in that other basket, where we want them to move. Then we draw it to the merits and then I think we can just look at such concepts much tighter and more strictly. That's a proposal I'm making to the Chamber. I may find out in the second term whether you see anything like that. I can make a letter of amendment to that effect or there may be an initiative from the Chamber. As far as I'm concerned, it's up to you to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u241	I see Mr Kwint. But I don't think you were finished with the second point, the quality test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u242	No, I'm not done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u243	Well, then, I'd like to suggest that you complete that first. Mr Kwint and Mr Bisschop will then be given the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u244	Mr. Chairman. Around that quality test is also that we not only ask for a quality test to be carried out, but that we also want to know if there is a better system for that school or if there is an interest in it. Because it is nice that a school is being set up, but if the interest is not enough, you can indeed get the situation that Mr Bruins asked for: that after a few years the school suddenly closes and those children have to get someplace else to stay. As far as we are concerned, that is not a very attractive situation. In the end, we have chosen to offer two possibilities in terms of mapping them. That's just making sure that it happens in a valid way, so that not just with a list in the back of a building Mr Heerema mentioned the mosque, but it can also be a community center or I know a lot of what autographs can be collected. No, that happens in a very valid way. That can only happen once. As a person, you can only register one. You can't tie your name to two initiatives. In short, that is really carefully decorated as far as we are concerned. That is also in order to prevent Mr Bertema from asking for a deal that could be negotiated. Of course, we don't want that. A lot of work has been done to make it work. Of course I hope it will work, but that will have to be made clear in practice. We also said that market research could also be carried out. That has to be paid for and so on. Now the question is whether both should and whether it is not the most pure thing that you do on the basis of those unique applications that actually come from the parents themselves and where they can no longer be messed up, because people have to make themselves known with their data and they cannot register on two initiatives. I have to tell you that I have become a little sensitive to this amendment, because in a way it can also help to be very clear. I think we could have done the right thing as we have proposed, but you are indeed running a bit of a risk. Some of you have also pointed this out. 'Cause who could afford that kind of research? There will be several agencies working on it. Of course, we may have a framework for them to work from, but you can have the discussion again, where they say that if I had chosen that agency, it would have worked and another agency would not be able to do so. That's all you need to avoid if you're only going for sec for those unique registrations. It can be both and I leave it to the Chamber, but it is possible, as far as I am concerned, to discuss what is in the amendment to item No. 23 stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u245	I see Mr Van Meenen now at the interrupting microphone, but I have just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u246	I'm not quite done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u247	No. I'll give you an opportunity to interrupt. I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u248	Mr. Chairman. I will take the amendments to these parts right away. Mr Beertema's amendment is a bit of a stretch. It was the amendment in part No. 8 and now it's part No. 15 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u249	Yeah, piece number one. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u250	If I read your amendment correctly, Mr Beertema, you actually want the government, through the way you are trying to organise it in your amendment now, to give an opinion on a religion or a belief in life. The aim of our Constitution is precisely to protect freedom of expression and freedom of religion from the fact that it is possible to do so. So you could almost say that it would actually be contrary to the principles of our democratic rule of law if the amendment as you propose were adopted. That can never be the intention of the petitioner. However, I do understand the underlying idea of this amendment; how do we want to deal with the lack of democratic elements at such a school? I will come back to that at another time. I do agree that schools should be based on the rules of the democratic rule of law. I believe that we are already providing for the strengthening of the citizenship mandate, which is also set out in the adequacy requirements as a requirement for admission. However, I do not think it is good as you put it, and I think it is also a bit contrary to what you are actually trying to achieve. So the amendment in part No. 8 I advise. I am sorry for Mr Beertema, because he knows that I will give his amendments a Chamber if I can. But I'm afraid it won't work here. It is therefore a question of the amendment which is now part No. 15 of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u251	Now I see Mr. Beertema standing by the interrupting microphone. But I would also ask him to hold off on his interruption until the Minister has completed this part. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u252	Mr. Chairman. I have already taken into account the question of how we measure interest in the quality test. In relation to this quality test, it has also been said that it is important that we use these rules of the democratic rule of law as the starting point: freedom, equality. It must also be taught. The case we were just talking about seems to be in conflict with that, so I'll have that checked out, too. But we think that's important. Mrs Van der Hul rightly asked: how are we going to ensure that, also looking at this bill? So there's the specific role that a supervisor has, which we've been talking about. Apart from that, it is therefore important to make demands on the front by means of robustness requirements. In fact, we believe that the current law does not provide sufficient tools for doing so very firmly in that supervision. I am currently putting the finishing touches to the comments made by the Council of State. I've even been working on it today, I'd like to report to you. Then it goes very quickly to the Council of Ministers and then it comes to you through the Council of Ministers and I hope that we may be able to discuss this bill with each other before the end of this calendar year, or else at the beginning of next calendar year. Because I think it is very necessary that we take some steps there. But in this law, we already provide that citizenship is also used as a necessity in the front: by the inspection to give advice and by the ruler to decide whether or not to allow it. Mr. Chairman. I have indicated that it is partly paper, but not non-binding paper, that talks are being held, that, with the addition I have proposed to you, things can be organized even more tightly, even when it comes to the concept schools. I'm sure this isn't noncommittal. Again, everything we do here is already a huge improvement compared to now, because now we are doing nothing at all. It has been asked whether it is not wise, if you have gone through that whole process, to include the research that always takes place just before a school starts. There was an amendment tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Rog. I think it is a good addition to add at the beginning, so to speak, before the signature is put under the financing decision, to make things even more difficult but also to have some clarity: can we really start? That amendment in part No. Twenty-four I'm judging Room. Then I'll take a look at the last questions. Mr Beertema asked about the new schools. Thank you for reading the prose section of that school. I knew the name, but I didn't have this all ready anymore. I was just able to keep my legs on the ground, I can report you. It's obvious. It's a non-cost school. That doesn't mean that a lot of demands we make are not made on these schools too. But that's another discussion. I think that with the proposal I have made to you that quality care should be carried out in the first basket and that we should be able to take a good look at it, which can be accepted to a large extent. Did we get the whole thing airtight? People, let's never have that illusion with each other, no matter what bill we do. Of course we strive for it, but in practice things will always turn up that we think: hey, have we overlooked that or is it working out a little differently? But know that this bill has not been incredibly long since 1993, but has been considered for a very long time and that it has also been looked at closely, with many experts. We do think that in this way, even with additions from your side, thanks to the co-legislature that you take very seriously, we can have a very solid front. That can help us do what we have to do and make sure that there aren't any schools that we're gonna regret after a very short time. One final point, Madam President. An example was mentioned of a school that could start in the past because of the space there was. The question was asked: if this is there now, can it be stopped? You know that it is not so attractive for politicians to go in as-dan questions, because of course you never know that. One thing I do know: whether it's this school or another, we're just making numerical demands now, and we're doing that in a way that really isn't of this time anymore. That is also the choice that lies ahead of this bill: do we think that is an ideal situation? I say no. What we're doing now is strengthening it in all kinds of ways, and sometimes we're looking at the edges, even with what we're asking. But I am convinced that if this is going to be a reality, it will be much better possible to stop those we do not want to have cowboys from being called cowboys at the front door, especially if we also make firm demands on the drivers. That's important, too. After that, I think we should look further at personnel policy. That will of course come in the future. You can't do all that in the first basket, but that's what you're looking at. At the time when the test I just gave in the context of the amendment to item No. 24 of course, there is a wide-ranging assessment of whether staff policy is also in order. Then you also have a kind of emergency valve or valve to say at the last moment: sorry, but the stop sign goes up anyway. In short, I really think that we are doing a lot here which has a huge added value compared to the current practice, which is simply worthless on this part. Let me put it bluntly. Mr President, that was my first block. Or my first block, that was the subject of quality test. In my enthusiasm I have taken into account the measurement of interest in this. That was number three. I think you'd love that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u253	Yes. I see Mr Kwint, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Beertema at the interrupting microphone. I'm going to see Mr. Kwint first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u254	I find it rather complicated that we now have to come back to six amendments and the proposal at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u255	You also spoke for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u256	Yes, and so the Minister must also come back to a lot of things. Exactly. We talked about the description of how we're going to work and about whether we can test whether those new concept schools are a bit satisfying. I took my amendment. In principle, it merely states: "This testes whether it is plausible, on the basis of scientific research, that the intended educational concept leads to good learning outcomes." In my opinion, this does not necessarily impose on promoters of a new school the obligation to designate exactly the same school, such as 'there is one, and it did so', but they must be able to refer back to a certain empirical basis for the concepts with which they work. That's not an unreasonable demand, is it? I don't know what the Minister's objection is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u257	I've indicated that it's the question of what you're going to get and whether that'll eventually take us further if you're going to ask every school for a scientific report. But let's not have that discussion right now. I'll even broaden it. I'm making it even wider now. This is just a figure of speech. I think that we can do much more with this concept schools, but we also believe that quality care should be in order for everything that is not a concept school and is new. We have to answer for this, including in the documents and in the choices that are being made for the education that we are going to give. I'm broadening it. So I'd say, "Pick him up." An amendment can be made, and then I'll give that judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u258	Now it's gonna be very special. In what sense does the Minister broaden it? We propose that there should be a scientifically sound description of the educational policy to be pursued. The Minister says that this is not possible with all concepts. In what sense does he broaden that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u259	I am broadening it in the sense that it is not only what we call 'concept schools', which is of course also a term that we have devised with each other, but that all the schools that re-apply can be schools of a direction or whatever else they need to demonstrate their quality care. They must make it clear what they want with it. It also includes that from the mission you have, you motivate the choices you make. In fact, that is what we are hearing particularly closely with the concept schools and with new ideas that exist. People will just have to make sure that's in order. That's why I'm broadening it. That means that your part is included. Of course, this can be justified by providing scientific reports. It may also be that you explain in other ways why you have made your choices. We'll just leave that to the schools that sign up. But the inspection is going to look into that and will take it into account as a necessity in the weighting in the advice it is going to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u260	That's exactly where we're at. You may scientifically support it, but you may also explain your choices to the inspection in a different way. That is exactly what we want to avoid. When it comes to a minor technical change, I am fine with it if it turns out to be something else. But if the Minister says in a subtlety that they can explain this in a different way, then we will take out exactly that hook, the scientific basis of the way a school works, from underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u261	Let's just go back to the bill. The assessment of the inspection focuses on the robustness requirements that we make mandatory. Your request is not directly directed towards a need for correctness. It is more general: if it is a concept school, it must be accompanied by scientific reports. Then you can have a whole discussion about whether something is scientific or not, but that aside. What I'm doing now goes much further and is a need for correctness in the second basket. One has to show some of that. Your amendment, if adopted, relates to this, but that is not what is finally involved in the assessment of the inspection. We must show that we are working on it. When the school starts, this officially functions as a necessity. I'm adding a new requirement to the six that are already there. I would like to point out that I believe that what you want is for schools that come with certain concepts to underpin what their quality policy and care look like. That also applies if they don't have a special concept but say they're just another Catholic school or whatever. This includes a solid underpinning of their mission and vision and how they want to express it in daily school practice. I've tried to explain it very extensively. In any case, I intend to do so in writing, since there are so many of them. Even if I do it orally, you'll get it all on paper. There's so many of them. If you have it all on paper again, you can read it again quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u262	A small question for clarification. I have heard the Minister's opinion on the two amendments tabled by Mr Rog and myself. These amendments, in part No. 23 and 24, both have Chambers. Does this also mean that the points relating to personnel policy - that second basket, as you call it - are actually included in the first basket, so the set used to assess the request?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u263	I don't think that's what you meant. You have indicated that an investigation must be carried out. Of the elements of quality, I have indicated that they are very important. Some of them are even robust requirements. But at the time when the investigation is taking place, one cannot reasonably expect that one can already prove it adequately and sufficiently. That's why we made that distinction. I have also indicated that I am convinced that the robustness requirements that we believe can and which we simply believe should be complemented by the one I have just mentioned can give a firm judgment. Your amendment is about the fact that, just before the official financing decision, which in principle has been given room for manoeuvre, is signed, these elements will be looked at again. After all, the school is about to start. Then I think you can reasonably expect the school to be in order with that. If it isn't, I would indeed hold up the stop sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u264	This therefore means that it does not comply with that requirement, as that is the fatality of the application. It will therefore be a harsh criterion of assessment. It seems a little sophistication that we look at that way, but maybe you can also just hold both sets against the light again and see what is really needed to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u265	Well, the possibility you're creating, I found interesting when I read this one. I thought, "That's what we've been thinking about." You are concerned with the period from the moment when a decision is taken that a payment may be made, which is then the official moment until the school is officially started. If your amendment comes into force, that possibility will enter into force. There must be a lot of other things in order, but then you have a kind of last chance to say: we think that is important; we look very carefully. I hope that the stop sign will not have to be raised, but that people will have things in order. Then you do prevent, in a manner of speaking, from having a school within three months where things just don't work out at all, for example because the staff is not in order. That is why I was sensitive to this amendment and I think it can have added value to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u266	My question is about Amendment No 2. 23. That is the amendment which states that only parental statements are taken as the starting point for measuring interest. In this way, the investigation of interest or market research, if you like, is actually pushed aside as an instrument. My question is whether this does not make it possible for the somewhat more self-conscious parents, who know the way, to be able to organise this, while an interest survey is actually broader. That doesn't specifically target individual parents. My question is how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u267	Two more comments on that amendment. One point I should have made is that I would ask for an amendment to this amendment if it were put to the vote. We are now being asked for an AMvB for the new construction areas, because that is what we are calling for in this amendment. I would ask Members to make this a ministerial arrangement, because it works much more effectively and better than an AMvB. In the direction of Mr Van Meenen, I would like to point out that we do want to keep room for such a study when it comes to new buildings, in accordance with this amendment. There's a lot of expense involved here. You're gonna have to lay down a few things to do this kind of investigation. You have also been able to read in the law that these costs are borne by the applicants. So if you're talking about mature parents or wealthy parents, I think it's more likely that you're just gonna ask people to sign up free of charge, via DUO, digitally even, with the unique data with which you can only sign up on one. That is why I have become sensitive to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u268	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u269	Mr. Chairman. Then my fourth part. Requirements are also laid down for the legal person. I just said something about that. It's important to do it in a good way. These are demands that have not yet been made. They're not even looking at it yet. Then we can get in trouble in the course of things. There must be a vog, but if, for example, someone has been given a clue, they really can't set up another school somewhere, so if a school of that person has already been very weak once. In short, we have set out a number of requirements to help ensure that the good people get there, because that is what we want. We also make demands on the legal person, I say in the direction of Mr Bishop, who asked a question about this. The competent authority of a school funded by the State, a school we are talking about today, must always be located in the Netherlands. So that's what we've done with this bill, too. Mr Heerema asked whether this also applies to foreign schools. No, they're not covered by the funded schools. That's what other legislation is for. As Mr Heerema well knows... Even though he's gone for a while now, he'll probably get my answer from his right hand, which he's gonna miss soon. For these foreign schools we have arranged a very different way of supervision. That doesn't go through the inspection either. It's decorated in a very different way. So that's not part of this. It is true that, among other things, through the International Education Task Force, we are looking at whether these schools meet the quality requirements. That is even an investigation that is currently under way and which we have informed you of. I'm sure that'll come your way in due course. Mr. Chairman. Much has been said about the obligation to invite and much has been asked for. It's an interesting subject. I'm going back to the current situation. There is no obligation to invite; there is nothing at all. So there's an initiator. It's going to work with, as I've already indicated, the system that was ever conceived and which isn't making us so happy anymore. At a certain point in time, direct measurement and the like have shown that a school can be founded. Then one knocks that could theoretically, but usually it happens before to the municipality with the question: can you arrange accommodation for me? At the moment when a person knocks at the door and asks for it, the counter starts running and needs to be there within a certain period, which differs between p.o. And vo, a building is arranged. That is the current situation. What are we asking? I think that's really meaningful. We say in this law: you must ask the parties that can deal with this, if it is really going to be a school, for the table. They are free to go or not to go. In the example of the 32 school boards, I don't know if they'll all come, but they could. Then you just have to add some extra chairs, because then there are 32 school boards involved, but also the municipality and the partnership. That must therefore be done at an early stage. At least that has two effects. The first is that the initiative is known at an early stage. One can never rule out that such a conversation might lead to those parents who are not satisfied and looking for something else, because the existing offer is not enough in their view, which they may have already brought before them in different ways, perhaps now they will be able to hear their complaints. The existing schools can move, because indeed students could leave them, to arrange for those parents to be satisfied. It is also very important if that objective is to be achieved. That's one way those conversations can work out. It could mean saying that this initiative could also be given a place at that school and that people would like to participate in it. A municipality also has the possibility to respond to this. I'll come back to this separately at the section segregation. A municipality also has a lot of legal instruments, if there are certain concerns, for example about segregation, to act. They even have a mandate to develop policies in conjunction with schools and partnerships. Unfortunately, that doesn't always happen, but it's something that belongs to them. This invitation obligation is therefore not without obligation. If it is not filled in, then there will eventually be no green light at the funding request, even if you would get a green check mark on all other elements. Then it just doesn't happen. It's very important that we settle that with each other. Now I have also had the conversations with the education aldermen of the G4, a beautiful couple of people who are busy in their own congregation; some of them have been for a while, but most of them in their first period. I like having conversations like that. They understand that they do not have the right to consent, which Mr Heerema asked for. Those are things where I'm gonna put up a little bit, in this chair, when it comes to the rule of law. There is, however, an amendment with an advisory right to do so. I get the idea, because that's what I've been talking to the aldermen about. They indicate that they understand that the choice is not up to them whether or not a school is going to be there, to reason equally constitutionally, legally, because the parties present here always have that clear in mind, although I am afraid a few times, but then we have a debate, in all openness. If you are going to give them a heavy role in this, so that their judgment must also be taken into account in the final judgment, then that is going to be very damaging with the equality of justice that should exist in this country. On what basis do they make an assessment? Of course, they're free to do that. We cannot develop a certain framework so that it happens in the same way everywhere. What happened quite recently in the Westland was the city council which overruled the college, but it did happen; it was ultimately a decision there in Amsterdam, given the composition of the board there, I do not think will happen so soon. Maybe not in Nijmegen either, but maybe there are municipalities where it does happen. Suppose, on the one hand, the numerical data of DUO is deposited. That is an equal level, because they can no longer be controversial. They're just based on the parents' registrations. There may also be studies on new construction areas; I am now going to take the amendment as my starting point. The inspection shall be based on the adequacy requirements. There is a legal basis for this and everyone in the school in Schin op Geul, in Maastricht, in Zwolle, in Nijmegen, in Amsterdam or wherever it is located, will look at this in the same way and give an opinion. That's up to us. But then there is another judgment that may differ, and I do not think that is the way forward. But I have also listened carefully to the aldermen. They actually said to me: we find it too narrow if our judgment remains only in that little club of the people sitting there at the table; that is only the local setting. And I understand that, because there are still some consequences to what is going to happen there. In a way they are a bit direct, because they have to wait and see what comes out, but after that they have to act. I'll come back to that at the segregation, because they can really do a lot more than I sometimes see happening now. I think there is a route to be taken to strengthen that. I'll just put it in your midst, in full disclosure, and I'll find out if you find anything. As far as we're concerned, we're already strengthening it. And that's not a small, but really a significant step. I thought we could get along with it, but I can also imagine that you would want to rise above that inconvenience, so it just hangs out in the local setting. We could regulate in the law that we give the municipality the opportunity to give an opinion. It must be based on the elements on which the inspection ultimately gives its opinion or bases its opinion. We can regulate in the law that the inspection involves that view of the municipalities, including those requirements of validity, in the final judgment. Then we know that the inconvenience that one may have might support it wholeheartedly; that can also be seen by other eyes than just those of the participants at the local table, and that it is part of the final advice that needs to be given. That's a route we can go. I think they're passable. Not the other route, because it brings with it legal inequality and because it rubs with our Constitution: we should want to do this in the same way everywhere in the country. So I do not recommend that amendment, but this is an addition to it as far as I am concerned, a strengthening which is fully in line with what I myself have heard from the aldermen concerned about their ultimate goal and what they would like to have regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u270	It was the amendment in part No. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u271	That's right, yes. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat heb ik hier liggen.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u272	Has this also completed the issue of the invitation obligation? Because then I'm going to Mr. Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u273	I'm gonna go check my folder. I think I've had the invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u274	I have a purely technical question. I think what the Minister is proposing is a gallant solution, but how are we going to do that technically? Are you coming with a letter of amendment? Are you asking the authors of the amendment to table an amended amendment? How do you intend to shape this? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u275	I didn't think it was so fancy to dissuade the amendment, because I simply understand the underlying idea. I think there's another route that's legally better and workable. There's got to be something for that. However, it is of course up to the proposers to decide whether they think this is sufficient. I'm trying to think with them. I think it might help, and I think the municipalities have been helped with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u276	I would like to ask the Minister what exactly is the objection to the way in which Mr Van Meenen and I wrote it down. I hear the Minister say a lot of things, including how things could be different, but I do not understand what is constitutionally the objection of this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u277	I will try to explain that briefly again. "Being the State of the Right" means that you make the same demands on everyone, and that it is also perfectly clear on the basis of which criteria judgments are given. Those judgments and opinions must also be based on law. The inspection, as we read very accurately in this law, is commissioned to carry out that investigation and to deliver an opinion, with a legal basis. I even reinforced that a little bit. In addition, the inspection will check whether there is movement and whether a number of issues are already being addressed which will also be considered immediately as a necessity once a school has started. Well, that's the story I just kept. This is going to be the responsibility of the govern ment, and perhaps I will be able to experience it during this period of government. In addition, DUO's judgement is in relation to the numbers. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We zijn overigens niet van plan om iets aan de normen van stichting te gaan doen.]] I'm not going to have that discussion again; we're going to stick to what it is. Here too, we have clearly regulated that process. On that basis, a judgment must be given. You mean something else. I may have misunderstood you, but I think that is what the amendment says. You think that municipalities should be able to give advice on a number of issues. In my opinion, three of these matters should be just their own policy. So they shouldn't advise on that, but they have to work with it. I shall come back to the point about segregation. You think that these municipalities should be able to give advice. That will then be on the desk of the person in charge, and he will then have to take a decision on that basis. That's vulnerable. Why is that vulnerable? First of all, because the content of the various opinions of municipalities will be produced in a totally different way. An opinion from the municipality of Westland will look really different than an opinion from the municipality of Amsterdam, even if it were the same case. And then a ruler with such advice has to make a choice, while there is no really clear framework on the basis of which the ruler should say: Westland is acceptable and Amsterdam is not, or vice versa. This means that there is simply going to be a great deal of uncertainty and that it is not transparent. It can also lead to different judgments. This may also sometimes depend on the person in charge who is there. I don't think that's acceptable. We just shouldn't want that with each other. But this other route will help the municipalities to explain their views on what is going to happen at the inspection, through the manner I have just outlined. In this way, the inspection can take that view into account in the final judgment. In doing so, the municipalities must, of course, focus on the elements on which the inspection will ultimately base its opinion. But they'll have plenty of room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u278	I understand very well that the quality requirements and that kind of thing must be the same throughout the country. However, we are asking for specific advice on: the sustainability of housing facilities, integration opportunities and the impact on existing educational provision, local demographic conditions, and locations where the risk of segregation is involved. These are things that can be very different in every municipality. That is what the municipal administration should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u279	The latter is a very justified remark: they go over it, so they have to work on it. They can also just work with it. They should not give advice to a minister, but they should work with it themselves. There is also a huge misunderstanding about where a school should be located. That's up to the city. I'll come back to that later at the segregation. There is now the impression that the proposers themselves can say where they want the school, but that is not true at all. That is not in accordance with our laws and regulations. The city decides where they go. You cannot give advice from the municipalities on how to integrate these schools in their total of schools. No, that's the freedom we give. If one meets the requirements that exist and if one also has the right to start a school in accordance with the requirements that we have set, then the municipality must also adapt that school. We will then have to create room for that. In short, these are elements of the amendment which should not be the subject of an opinion, but of which municipalities simply have to work with. It is also inappropriate to give a municipality a role, possibly through a minister, in perhaps stopping an integration. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u280	I think the Minister really makes it much bigger than it is. We're getting an opinion from the city. That's no different if it goes to the inspection than if it goes directly to the minister. The only thing the Minister says is that when it goes to the inspection, it seems to be filtered if he doesn't get it on his desk, because then the inspection will do something with it, so that the person who has to make the decision doesn't seem to have any idea of the advice given by the municipality. I can't think of any other reason why the advice shouldn't go directly to the minister. Maybe he can explain again what's going to change in that hallway? What does that do with the advice? Isn't that just cover-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u281	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u282	In any case, there are a number of elements in this amendment on which you would like to put an opinion from the municipality to the Minister. I will deal with this later in the context of segregation, because that is the work that the municipality itself will have to do. I have already indicated the following on the part of the integration. When one meets all the requirements and is given the green light, the municipality will eventually have to do so. We cannot give the municipality a role in this, and they should not be able to try to make their point through a minister. The route I describe will ensure that the municipalities can give their views. But they will indeed have to focus on those six or perhaps seven parts plus the additional issues on which we ask through the quality elements that something must be done. In particular, it will be possible to give an opinion on the adequacy requirements. The inspection then involves them in the final judgment, and that will lie with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u283	I totally disagree with this. A municipality is, of course, not at all able to test, for example, the adequacy requirements. The municipality is an independent body that has to give an opinion on things that concern the municipality. Those are other things than the inspection. This is not new at all, by the way. In the past, for example, Article 75a of the Secondary Education Act gave this role to the province. He advised the minister directly; there was no inspection between them. Let me put it this way: I've heard stronger stories. I just can't quite understand where this fear comes from. Don't be afraid of any advice from the municipality. That municipality has everything to do with what is happening there and that indeed directly affects the tasks of the municipality, for example in the area of segregation. The municipality must be able to find something if a certain school wants to settle in that municipality. In the end, it is an advisory right; it remains for the Minister to give an opinion on it. I don't think it's convincing at all. I don't know if Minister wants to take another shot, but so far it's not helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u284	I would have appreciated Mr Van Meenen's legal status a little higher, because this does indeed touch on a very clear principle. Until now, municipalities don't even have any role to play, and eventually they get to hear: there's going to be a school; you have to get going; the counter is going to run for the accommodation you need to arrange. But it can't be that municipalities are actually going to have an influence on the space we offer, on the freedom of choice for parents who want to start a school. Of course, the conditions must be met and the municipality can also have views on these conditions. We must ensure, by an appropriate means, that it is applied in the same way everywhere, in all the municipalities, and that all schools, wherever they are, can therefore be equally judged. As far as I am concerned, this is the right way forward. So I'm offering municipalities some space. But at your service, you don't have to use it; then we keep it as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u285	That is why it has to be an opinion. As I said to Mr Heerema, I love rights of consent, but not on this point. Then the minister would have a point, because then you would give the right to determine that just to the municipality. But it shouldn't be like that. I find it strange that the Minister closes his eyes to the municipal situation, which is indeed different everywhere and will therefore lead to different opinions. I think it is valuable that this should happen, precisely because we want to do justice to the local situation. This advice may also benefit a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u286	I will simply peel off what is in the amendment. Such advice should cover the feasibility of the provision of housing at the established location in the application. What do you mean "feasibility of the desired location"? The city's just gonna decide that. Of course, the authors have an opinion on this and they will say: we would like the provision in that district. But then the municipality can say, for example, from the policy it is pursuing to counter segregation: no, in that district we are not going to do it, but it would be very good if that initiative were to come into a neighborhood further down, because we know that the school in a neighborhood is often going to take on the color of the neighborhood, so we have a better chance of combating segregation. So it is really very strange to give advice to a ruler on that first part. Then there are the possibilities for integration and the consequences for the existing educational offer. Of course, the municipality has an opinion on this. I understand. It will also be expressed in the course being followed. But if, in the end, the choice that will be made depends on the views of the municipality, then you and I know that, even if situations may differ, the colour of a city council and the college that sits there will be part of the opinion and views of the municipality. That's why I mentioned how that sometimes works in the country. I do not think it is purely legal to give them the opportunity to advise on this, but well, we can differ on that. I'm really convinced we shouldn't. I will come back to local demographic conditions at the segregation. We have provided municipalities with legal opportunities to develop policies and to commit schools to them. I would like to propose to you that perhaps a little tighter should be included in this law as well. But I'll come back to that separately later. And then the locations where the risk of segregation plays. I have indicated that a ruler cannot do that very much. There is a fully accepted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then that, I think, is not the time to say: it meets everything, but there is a risk somewhere. We know that the risks of segregation are not just about the arrival of a school. However, I will come back to that later. I'm sorry I keep having to refer to that. There are many more elements that allow segregation to occur. Then it will be a very subjective judgment on which you base yourself. And that too has to do with equality of law. Because it's so subjective, we probably can't guarantee that it happens in the same way everywhere. So just peeling it off for a while, I think it doesn't work well in practice, that it's not even necessary for some parts and that we can arrange it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u287	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u288	I can see from your face that I've completely convinced you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u289	Yeah, I see it, too. But Mr. Kwint is waffling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u290	I cannot see Mr Van Meenen's face from this position, but I know his compassionate nature. So I'm sure that's the case. I would like to go a long way back in the Minister's speech on another point in this block. But if Mrs Westerveld still has a question about this amendment, it might make more sense than I'm going to ride through it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u291	What are we gonna do, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u292	As the Minister saw, I was just standing with Mr Van Meenen. We're quite willing to listen to his first point. This concerns the feasibility of the accommodation facilities at the desired location and the request. Mr Van Meenen and I understand that there is an objection to the Minister. On the other points, he hasn't convinced us yet. So we are going to see what exactly we are doing with this amendment. But I can't guarantee the Minister that we'll withdraw it. I think we're going to change the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u293	Madam President, I count my blessings. At least on one part I convinced. Maybe we'll get a little closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u294	However, it is nice that my constructive attitude has enabled me to bring everyone closer together! We're going to reverse that now. "The school we've talked about so many times," said the Minister. The Haga Lyceum. It was about the administrative test and about the other conditions. The minister says: if then, that's all complicated. I know that with this law we have more in our hands than we had in the past. But you yourself, in the debates on the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, referred to this law and said: it is precisely because we want to avoid this kind of thing, that the Law will be more room for new schools, that the Law might perhaps mean more room for new schools? Then the question is quite legitimate whether this law, as you said then, actually provides a solution to the case we were talking about at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u295	I just indicated that you have to go back in time when you ask for a dance. That's hard, because that school just started. But I am sure that this law, as well as the Citizenship Law, with the firm tightening up of the demands we impose on it when it comes to schools that are funded by us, will provide us with tools to get much tighter control at the front door, to simply stop initiatives where it can, for example, look at the additional demands of the driver and the like. Indeed, I am convinced that a number of situations that have now occurred would have looked different, but that is theoretical because it has happened. I just said, "Wouldn't anything ever have happened?" Of course, that is also the ideal world, which we can never quite reach. We're gonna have to wait a little longer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u296	It binds Christians and Socialists that the ideal world is always in the future. The Minister brought this up in those debates himself. The Minister himself said: this is why we introduce the Law more room for new schools. When I look at that administrative test, I see two things: the vog and what I would like to call homely the demand that you haven't helped a school all the way to the gallemies for the last five years. As far as I know this case, none of these two things would have raised any objections to the establishment of this school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u297	With all due respect, this is not a correct representation of what we're going to ask and what demands we're going to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u298	Administrative requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u299	Oh, administrative requirements. I'm sorry, I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u300	I was just talking about the administrative demands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u301	If a driver's been given a lead, he shouldn't try to start a school somewhere else. If you've made a mess of it, you can't just start a school somewhere. It's not just about what's being asked at administrative level. We also ask them to make sure that their content and the formation of citizenship are clearly in line with the requirements. Furthermore, I mention quality care and everything else we ask for. I'm not gonna repeat it all, given the time that goes on and on. We all make these demands. And now no demands are made at all, just: did you get the signal that you can start, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u302	Finally, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u303	The minister's fighting windmills a little bit. No one says no demands are better than a few demands. The only thing I am asking is: reflect on the situation that arose at the time, of which so much was said in Amsterdam, in the Netherlands and here in the Chamber: boys, we just don't want this all together. The Minister did, and I think we're not that far apart at all. The Minister has been firm about this, referring to this bill. I would like to see how this now affects schools that we would not want in the future. I see the preconditions and I also see that this is more than what we have now. Absolutely, there's no doubt about that. But are they sharp enough? That's actually the underlying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u304	In the end, of course, practice will have to prove that. We're going to follow that closely. We're talking about something that's still going to happen. We've never decorated it this way before. Look at the robustness requirements that we impose and the requirements that are imposed on drivers. We just added a little extra backup. Also you have to demonstrate that you have enough students, not supposed, but actually. I am convinced that this is a solid package, which I hope, of course, that we will be able to prevent unpleasant situations from occurring, even though I can never completely rule it out. But you know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u305	"Although I can never completely rule it out," I'm afraid of that. I already know it's not going to be ruled out. Of course, the question of the SP is quite right: how is this law going to foresee that we would have had an instrument not to fund that Haga Lyceum anyway, a priori already? The Minister goes around that with a lot of words and then comes up with a story about citizenship: that's what's still there. But, yeah, in the media, all the horrible reports are over each other. Now we have again seen the teaching method in which girls and boys are not allowed to look into each other's eyes. That's not a weekend school, that's just funded Islamic education. The school would have had all that permission on the basis of this law. Are you going to close it on the basis of the instruments you now have? No, because you don't. Because my amendment is not state-of-the-art or anything like that. So you'll be empty-handed again. That's what I'm afraid of. All I see is that all those Islamic leaders, Haga and all those other schools, are laughing at us all. And they're laughing at you the hardest. Because we do not have instruments, we do not have instruments and it is too shameful for words. That is my great fear: that this law is not going to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u306	That is a nice little bridge to my next part, namely what we do when a school has received permission. That's where you put your finger. You can see in the legislative proposal that we are doing this in a more robust way with regard to the estimation of the number of pupils, because we can simply very quickly stop funding if the development of the numbers of pupils is not in line with what we intended to do with each other. That's one and it can be done very quickly. When it comes to quality, there are clear guarantees in this law, as I would say. In any case, there are agreements on the way in which a school is followed and the possibility of non-compliance. We always give some space to a new initiative to also have some time to get started and finally to fully meet the student numbers as well as all the requirements. If we find that in the first few years a number of parts are already not being met, see the law, then the funding will be stopped. These are all reinforcements and reinforcements that make us just a lot tighter, even in such an early period. I say to Mr Kwint that this had helped greatly in the first few years to intervene in the case he mentioned. So that too is what we have given a place in terms of instruments in the law. As a result, we actually have an opportunity to say in those first years, if they were allowed to go ashore, that we are going to put that ship back on the sidelines, because that is not what we were aiming for; the estimates of what we thought would happen did not come true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u307	I understand that, but in the meantime we are a long way further and a lot more dramas. Let's get back to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u308	We can do that in two years. It's as fast as it gets!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u309	In two years. Two years of misery, I say. Back to this law for a while. Let me get away from Islam for a minute. Suppose there is a request from the Dutch People's Union to establish a Baldur von Schirach College or an Eva von Braun Lyceum. So you say literally, because you said that legal status means that all applications are treated equally. So yes, if they keep a very nice story and present a very nice school plan, then this minister will simply allow them to set up Baldur von Schirach Lyceum on the basis of national-socialist principles, and thus on the basis of all kinds of principles that are opposed to our Constitution. This is done on the basis of a vision of life that wants nothing more than to destroy our freedoms, our democratic rule of law as quickly as possible. Is that the state of law you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u310	Mr Beertema is very good at building bridges, because this brings me to the principle of direction. I think, with all due respect, you're making it a bit of a caricature. Indeed, there can be all kinds of initiatives that do not yet have room for, because you have to be linked to such a direction. Or they come under the heading of 'general special' and then we know that sometimes they are also initiatives that can often get into a lot of things. That situation is already there. In the new situation, it all becomes much more transparent. There is room to let go of the principle of direction. There have been very exhibits about that that means that we go back in time and such, but I think we should just look at our time. I just indicated that we still see a lot of this stuff in our society. I myself think that there are a lot of beautiful things in there, but you can judge them differently. But we also offer room for new initiatives that are not directly linked to them and where people do not feel at home. But we do make those very clear demands on the front. If we are really talking about initiatives which are contrary to our democracy and which even aim to destroy our democracy, then look at the demands we are making. Surely there is no way of getting through that sieve that we have made very firm to judge whether they can start? This could now be done, so to speak, under the heading of 'general special'. If one is sufficiently interested, one could start. In the new situation, that really looks very different. That's why I'm saying don't make it a caricature. I don't know you like that either. Of course we have to be alert. We really need to be very keen on making the demands so that undesirable initiatives do not go ahead. On the other hand, we also know that the debate on undesirable initiatives may be different. You can't cut that with a pair of scissors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u311	Mr Beertema, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u312	In any case, I am counting on a huge brake on the opening of new Islamic schools. Maybe we'll just go on our way to zero. That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u313	The moment that Islamic schools meet the conditions we set, there is, of course, room for them. The conditions I just mentioned apply to education in the broadest sense. They apply to initiatives based on certain views that one has or for parents who would like to have a school, for a Catholic school, but also for a public school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u314	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u315	In short, it is possible, but with the strict demands we make both on the front door and on the numbers to be met. Madam President. I have just said that freedom of direction has been a very long journey. It started in 1848 and now there is a bill that offers opportunities for that, also linked to the space there is and also for schools that have a direction. I think it is very important that we make sure at the front that there is a very good test before we can start. I have just indicated that if you pass that test, because of the amendment tabled by the Chamber, you will have another test before you actually start. Then, in the first few years, there are opportunities to stop funding. Those are important things. A number of Members have asked whether we are not at risk of further promoting segregation, if there is more room for other schools as well. I think that is a very legitimate question, but I say directly: do not think that the current situation is optimal in this respect. I have just indicated that there are opportunities, for example under the banner of general specialism, for all kinds of initiatives to promote segregation. The subject of segregation is back on the agenda. As far as the causes are concerned, it is a multi-headed monster. We know that there are at least three very clearly identifiable issues that promote segregation. Sometimes they also oppose segregation, because that is of course mirrored the other side, if you have the right approach. One of the main causes is housing segregation, the fact that in many situations the school assumes the colour of the neighborhood, of the composition of the neighborhood. That can also be just a school for special education; there are many examples of this, including in this city. Education legislation is not easy to steer, at least not for a very large part. That is land-use planning, that is housing policy. Of course, we have a national responsibility for this, but the municipalities also have a responsibility for it. They can use their policies to try to get a little more mixed up. They have some possibilities for that, but of course people decide where to live. If they want to live somewhere else, because they don't like it, it's also a free choice in this country. I don't think we want to get that. Don't municipalities have any options at all? Yes, I do. I have just mentioned the example of the housing plan, the school plan. The municipality decides where a school is to be. So when it comes to housing segregation, which is really one of the main causes of segregation, there can be some influence in the context of education policy, through the housing of education. To link it to this law: in the case of a new initiative, the municipality determines where it comes from. That's not what the initiators do. They may have views on that, but the municipality determines it. I myself have noticed in recent weeks that many municipalities do not even know that, but that is the legislation. The second element is the freedom of choice of parents, that parents can indeed choose which school they consider suitable for their child. I recently saw a short documentary about the freedom of education and there someone who works in a school said that these parents are very important. He literally said, I wrote it down: parents give the most precious thing they have out of their hands to the school. That struck me a little bit, that sentence. 'Cause it's true, of course. They're their kids. They have views about which school they would like to have their child at. Mr. Heerema also indicated that the old choices around the containment are changing. I think you can see that a little bit in your area. Quality and whether it's nearby are also very important arguments. There may be different arguments. Parents have freedom of choice in that. I am not in the cabinet category either, you see when you look at what we have written in the government agreement on freedom of education, which wants to restrict that freedom of parents and force parents, in a manner of speaking, because there is only one choice for them. We don't want that. There is indeed a risk of segregation. It could be. Well, then, admission policy. This is now being inserted very firmly in relation to the segregation. There are two sides to that, too. It is true that, from our Constitution and from other laws and regulations, there is scope to impose requirements for admission, if you do so consistently, consistently and transparently. It's very often about the denomination, with those demands. It hasn't been researched very often. There is another study from 2004 which is actually the last one that indicates that about 5% at that time had a more stringent admission policy, which is what is normal in our Constitution and legislation. So about 5%. I think it's lower now. I am already telling you that I am doing more research on this subject than denomination, but I am looking at admission policy and segregation, because that has not happened for a very long time and I think it is important that we have more information, also current. The other side of admission policy is that admission policy can be used to prevent segregation. The municipalities really have opportunities for that. In recent years, in 2006, we have made explicit agreements on the Local Educational Agenda. You know it, of course. You may have them on your bedside table if this subject is so important. That is a law that gives municipalities a toolbox, gives opportunities, to steer very actively in education to counter segregation. Municipalities, school boards and partnerships have even been given the task, the legal mandate, of drawing up policies together. That's what they do. There are schools that work with double waiting lists. Rotterdam has become quite famous for that. At the time, alderman Leonard Luck, who is now doing something different in education. He did a lot of work on that back then. There are other municipalities. I see Mr Kwint, who has been a council member in Amsterdam. I see Mrs Westerveld, who was a councilman in Nijmegen. That's two of them, too. We could bring in The Hague and there are some other municipalities. Deventer, the birthplace of Mrs Van den Hul, is another example. What you don't know sometimes, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u316	Do you have all the details of MPs, where they live and everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u317	No, no. I know about a few of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u318	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u319	Sometimes we talk about other things than work. It's just so nice that you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u320	Yeah, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u321	But not from this place. These are municipalities that have agreed rules on the admission of pupils to schools, public and special education. They say, for example, if you live in the neighborhood, you have priority. That's just a threshold. That is admission policy, but the other way around is that you have to endorse the basis. Or they say, "If you have a little brother or sister in this school, you get priority." And in Nijmegen, I think they even included in the policy that there should also be a balance between the composition of the district and the school, but that rule does not even have to enter into force, because the first two are already working enough. About 95% of the students can get a place at the school that was first elected and at the school they want. So that's also with municipal policy making sure you stop segregation. And with all my love, I support discussions about the foundations or not, but when we talk about the issue we are talking about, I think there is only one real question. Are we able to implement that local educational agenda in our time? That is what we, as well as the municipalities and the schools, should be doing. Secretary of State Dijksma has worked hard on this under Balkenende IV. Some people look down on that cabinet period, but then this subject was a high priority. Are we able to work in our time on that local educational agenda and the proceeds of all those pilots and all those efforts during Balkenende IV? Are we able to carry it out in our time? The answer is that it is not enough. It took a motion by Mr Jasper van Dijk to re-fire the case. This motion has now led this cabinet to request the inspection to carry out additional investigations. Are these agreements, which have been laid down by law, also being complied with? I think I know what's about to come out of that. So that is where we have to invest, not in amendments where Mr... I can no longer come under his name, Mr. President. Sometimes you have a blackout and you can't get a name anymore; that's really terrible. Mr. Van Meenen! Sorry. You know someone's birthplace, but you forget the name. Sorry about that. I am referring to the amendments in which Mr Van Meenen immediately asked: what problem is this really going to solve? You also have a whole series of amendments to that point where I think: what problem do we solve? If we want to solve the real problem of segregation, we know that it is a multifaceted monster, then we also know that it partly transcends education policy because it is there on other fronts. We also know that we are not direct objects and that much can happen. Furthermore, we know that we just need to get to work on the agreements we have made, so with existing laws and regulations, also locally! The municipalities say: we want to give advice on... I would say: get to work with your legal task! Put your energy in there, because you can do so much already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u322	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u323	I'm gonna make a point. That might be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u324	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u325	There is much to be said on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u326	Yeah, I can tell. The question of segregation is now complete as far as the Minister is concerned. I'm going to see Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u327	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I've been at the Interrupt Microphone for a while now, and I'm a little hesitant about where to start. The Minister says in a subtlety: I can talk for a very long time about all kinds of things such as the obligation to accept. But then he doesn't talk about acceptance at all, but only about what municipalities don't do. I am well aware that municipalities are indeed sometimes inadequate. In fact, the Empire was so almost forgotten that the municipalities had the task of conducting consultations. That's what the Minister's right to say. It took a dusty piece of legislation to get the education inspector back to work. In the previous block, the Minister said that, for example, the directional recognition as it exists now poses problems in practice in establishing, there again, additional concept schools, for example, because there is one already. But now the Minister says: yes, but now a lot of these schools can already be founded, because it can already be established by the standard 'general special'. He says: that does not really require the deletion of the existing directions, because it is already happening and that does not do so much. Isn't that a contradiction? Where perhaps one such school could rather be set up in an area, perhaps four or five such schools can now be set up. The essence of this law is that it will be easier to set up a school based on an educational concept, a belief in life, as far as I am concerned, based on a vacation philosophy. It becomes easier to set up a school with a group of like-minded parents. Isn't that almost by definition a segregational effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u328	First of all, I don't agree that it's easier to set up a school like this. I've just said a lot about that. How many words have we not devoted to that together? We have even strengthened this even further because everyone will have to go through the hoop of admission. That's not an easy step. In addition, we must be able to demonstrate that there is interest. That too will have to be firm. I do think that the main difference is that it is more transparent and that initiatives that do not now have room for manoeuvre. I mentioned the example of the vwo-montessori in Eindhoven, where there is already a jenaplan-vwo and so there is no room. That is simply not explainable to parents, because there is an interest in it and there are also students for it. They can start, but it can't be for that reason. We're gonna get rid of it, and that's gonna give us more room. But we're very firm. What about segregation? I just mentioned four or five things of what's possible. I just indicated that the LEA really offers an opportunity. I understand that you want something with this, but there is now an amendment that we can't really do very much with. The segregation test is not a proper requirement. Then you can take a test and put it down, but you can't do that much with it. I think it is more important to ensure that new initiatives are involved in the local interaction between municipalities and other school partnerships, to which the LEA even legally mandates, with very clear points, of which segregation is one. They must then prove that they are part of and contribute to this. We could arrange that through this law if necessary. I haven't done that yet, but that could be a tight hook to ensure that segregation is included as a subject. I give that as an idea in the direction of Mr Kwint. Once again, he's calling attention to this, I get it. But we have to take care of it in a good way, so that it really means something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u329	There's no lack of ideas; thank you for thinking along. All measures outside this law that affect segregation are rightly referred to by the Minister as 'he makes them very large'. All the things you could do in this law, he makes very small. I find this bill far too important for and b the subject of segregation in education far too important for that. Of course, you do not solve the problem of segregation in education with just an acceptance obligation. Of course, you don't solve the problem of segregation in education with just a segregation test. Of course, you don't solve that with just the student transport... How many amendments have I not tabled on this; about four or five. Of course, you can't solve it just by saying that in the region, for example, there should be only one school in general special. But all those loose things together could make a difference. Then it has not been resolved immediately, I agree with the Minister. But you can't park the issue of segregation, the big challenge we face, out of this law, a law called Law more room for new schools? When I said it would be easier to start new schools, the Minister said: well, you say that very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u330	Sure, because I have indicated that there are firm demands on the front. Just to be clear, I don't want to park it outside this law, but I want to give it a place in this law that will ultimately have effect in practice. That is why I indicated that if we have to consider in the law how we do this, but we still have some time to ensure that the new initiatives, whoever they are, are connected to local policy from the LEA, where the municipalities together with the other schools and partnerships have an assignment, then I think we can make double profits. First of all, we are earning the profits that the new school will have to make clear how one relates to that policy. This must be made clear, even in the case of the application. Secondly, I think we are giving Jasper van Dijk's motion a huge push, because in this way we are forcing municipalities to take a closer look at how they deal with it. Mr Kwint and I, as well as others in this Chamber, know that practice is simply lagging behind what was intended at the time by the legislator. We have provided all kinds of opportunities in the law to make very active policies to counter segregation. There are all kinds of legal possibilities. If you can connect a new initiative to that, I think we can create a win-win situation. I would like to think about that further with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u331	Mr. Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u332	We're here now, so let's do it. About the LEA. In my opinion, the articles quoted by the minister require every school to join the municipality to reflect together on how to counter segregation in education. We don't have to change the law for that, do we? If there is a new school, it is also part of the existing schools and should automatically join...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u333	If we just include that in the whole package of what we ask of a school before it finally gets the green light to start. That's what we do with a lot of things now. As soon as they start, all kinds of things do come into effect. I'm looking for a hook to make sure that also in that request... I mean, it's not a proper requirement, and it won't be. You can't do that with segregation. But when it comes to quality policy and the demands made by law to schools, it is indeed a legal task that comes to them. If we give this task a place in the preliminary stage and if we ask schools that come as a new initiative to make clear in their papers how they relate to that task and if that is included in the assessment, then I think we are very far and that this can also mean something in the municipalities. Then suddenly they talk about it, too. That's fantastic, because it doesn't happen enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u334	That's the segregation test, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u335	No, I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u336	No, the segregation test is really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u337	I would like to add my voice to Mr Kwint. I hear the Minister say 'there is a lot of them already and municipalities can already do a lot to prevent segregation', but you are not there with one solution, as I said during the interrupting debate with Mr Van Meenen. I have just given in my speech a number of distressing examples of schools that do refuse parents, for many reasons. That happens sometimes openly, but unfortunately that happens very often in a somewhat obscure way, which makes it very difficult to put your finger on it. We've also talked about mature and less mature parents before. I would therefore very much like to ask the Minister what he is going to do to ensure that parents who know all these roads less well can also be sure that their child can go to the school of their choice. After all, the mere fact that there are opportunities to combat segregation at local level does not mean that segregation is being countered. Look here in The Hague, the most segregated city in the Netherlands in terms of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u338	In my view, I have just explained in some detail what the causes of segregation are. Woonsegregation was mentioned. That's a very important one. I have indicated the possibilities we have from Education because that is what we have here. We are not entirely empty-handed, but our possibilities are rather limited. I have also indicated that it is parents' freedom of choice. If you want to take it away, it's a choice, but that choice doesn't make the cabinet. I have also indicated that there are two sides to the admission policy. On the basis of the Constitution and other laws, there is, in principle, scope for asking for a base to be subscribed. I have also indicated that I am in the process of carrying out a new study, which shows that in practice about 5% of the schools used it in 2004. That's a rough estimate. I think that percentage is lower now. Suppose you delete that from the belief that that is no longer of this time, a conviction that I do not share, then we have not solved the problem of segregation. I have also indicated that working with admission requirements, which may also be done by public schools, is being actively used in a number of municipalities to counter segregation. So there are possibilities. Mrs van den Hul's point is that everything is happening under the radar. That is indeed not desirable. I don't want that. We need to see what we can do about it. We must really try to stop that, but we will never be able to stop everything, whatever legislation we have. I'm sorry to hear that. Of course, it is not nice if in a conversation in which someone wants to register the urgent advice is given "you better go to another school," especially if there are arguments behind it that are not valid, but in what way can you get a grip on it with a law? That's quite a complicated matter. What we can do is, for example, to try to keep people out through financial thresholds. There is an amendment in this area by Mr Bruins, at least he announced it. It may indeed be that we should indicate in the requirements that we must make it clear that the parental contribution is voluntary and so on. We can even record that. I would like to mention an example which is really quite shocking, but I understand that it has happened somewhere. Suppose a school celebrates very extensive sintering classroom with Black Piet, I see Mr Beertema rising up because one wants to keep a certain group out of the door by doing it so exuberantly. You can't make legislation to stop that. In many ways one can set thresholds without affecting regulation. It's very difficult to get a hold of that, but we do have instruments. We're gonna have to bet it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u339	The Minister has said a lot of things and repeated a lot of things, but he has still not answered my question, namely: what is he going to do for these parents, what is he going to give them and what can they do? What can you do if you're told to go to the other school? The Minister talks about housing segregation, but here in The Hague I can give him many examples of two schools around the corner, where it is a world of difference. It's the same neighborhood and the same population, but it's just a segregated school. I do not yet hear the Minister give a convincing answer: what can you do as a parent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u340	Not to ricochet it back, but if someone here has the waterproof story how we can combat segregation from education too, while we know that segregation is far beyond education because it is partly related to housing segregation without affecting freedoms in this country, then I am very curious about that. If you ask me how I can prevent a personal conversation from saying to someone "you better go to another school," you ask me for the impossible. The only thing I can do, and we will do, is to make it clear to parents that there is simply a duty of care for a school and that someone who signs up to all the conditions must simply be admitted. We also need to help parents who might get kicked off so they know the way. This can be done, among other things, through parent organisations that support them in it. We also experience this regularly with appropriate education. I have indicated that I do not think it is desirable, but we cannot completely avoid this with regulation. The versatility of the sample of segregation and the mode of combat mean that we have to see to the maximum what is possible. Then back to this bill, which is about starting new schools. The next thing is a gesture to you because I understand very well that you want something with it. I specifically try to make a very clear connection with these new schools with the assignment that such a new school is about to receive, and I want to get him to join the LEA earlier and take responsibilities, and then go along with it in one go and strengthen that municipal policy further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u341	We've been talking about segregation for a long time now, so I'm just trying to clear it up for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u342	You're not going to sum it up, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u343	No, I'd like to ask if I understand the Minister correctly. In the current situation, if you manage to position your new school in any column because it happens to be convenient, you can just start a concept school that would increase segregation, without the Minister or the inspection being able to do anything about it. However, in the new system, there will be a number of tools or test criteria that will allow more ex-ante testing of the promotion of segregation with that particular school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u344	I have just indicated that I do think that is important, but that is not yet fully covered by this law. That should be an addition. In this way, we are also looking for a good way to ensure that an initiator, a new school, makes clear how it is going to relate to the LEA, the legal provisions on the basis of which this should be done in the municipalities. Then they will also have to make clear how they contribute to countering segregation. That's something we're not asking for at all right now. This can very well help to further strengthen the approach to segregation, which is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u345	In that situation, I'd like it if it worked the other way too. So when the request for a new school is made, the municipality also uses the opportunity to review its own LEA. For example, Amsterdam has the policy that you get priority with the eight schools closest to your home on zip code. You may wonder whether that policy contributes to segregation or whether it leads to less segregation. Then you could review the LEA every time on the basis of the new school base. Would it also be possible to go that other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u346	I have just indicated that it would indeed be helpful if we specifically gave the LEA a place in the assignment to a new school, especially in those municipalities where this leads to a very dormant existence. This is quite apart from Mr Bruins' example. That is what the SP rightly put the finger on, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u347	Put it on. It's, uh, putting the finger on something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u348	Yeah, they were close first and then put the finger on it. That's right. They have put their finger on that by saying: that is simply not well arranged in many municipalities. So at the moment when we ask new schools to indicate how they relate to that LEA and what their contribution will be to combating segregation, I do indeed think that this could get a huge boost, especially in the municipalities where little is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u349	Good. I'll take a look at you. How far along are you? I think you're almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u350	Then I'll go to public school. There is a discussion as to whether a school in a new building district should initially be a school for public education. An amendment has also been tabled on this subject. The petitioners know the number. I don't have it right now. I would advise against that amendment for the following reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u351	The amendment in part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u352	In the end, it is important that we look together on the basis of real interest to see if there are enough students, now and in the future, to start such a school in a new building district. That could indeed very well be a school for public education. We have regulated in the law that there is a guarantee function for public education. That means parents can ask the municipality to do that research. That was also the hook in Mr Bishop and Mr Rog's amendment to examine whether there is sufficient interest, because you cannot do it on the basis of an actual measurement because the new building area is still being built. But to set up a public school automatically in every new building district if we don't even know if there are enough students to do so doesn't seem to me to be the right way forward. So I advise against the amendment, but we do know that public education has rights from that guarantee function. Mr Bishop's question about the requirements for schools around public education has to do with this guarantee function. Then some other numbers play a role. But if public education in an existing situation wants to establish a new school and invoke this law, then it is simply bound by the requirements set out in this law. So it seemed to be a contradiction for a moment, but there is a difference between the guarantee function and a normal application in the context of establishing a school for public education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u353	Are you done with public education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u354	Yeah, that was public education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u355	Mr Kwint, I would like a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u356	The reason behind this amendment is that you do not know who is going to live in a new building district. That is still largely unknown, at least when it becomes very sensible to think about putting a school there. That school has to be there when those people start living there. It won't take long. The idea is then to say in part the guarantee function: just start with a public school. It's open to everyone. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Iedereen kan ernaartoe.]] There won't be any people who can't agree with the school's philosophy of life. Then you can always decide, if the neighborhood wants to, to make it something else. But isn't it almost impossible to fill out what parents' wish is supposed to be in a new neighborhood? And that's about the time you need to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u357	The municipality can also investigate on its own, if it so wishes, at the time when a new district is being set up, for example because it knows that this guarantee function is there and wants to know in good time what the interest might be, so that it can be taken into account. The amendment states that the first school in a new building district should be standard public education. I don't think that's wise, because you'll have to see if there's enough interest in it first. If this interest is not enough, it seems to me very unwise, if there is another initiative which is sufficiently interested, which Mr Rog pointed out in an interruption, that such an initiative should then wait until there is sufficient interest in a school for public education. As far as I am concerned, this is a very good way of working, also in accordance with our laws and regulations, and it gives some priority to public education because of this guarantee function.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u358	My point is that, at the time of the decision to build a school, a new building district is being built where no people yet live. You don't know who's gonna live there, part of it, but you still have to make a choice for a school, because there has to be a school, because you want the kids to go to school in their own neighborhood. You can't gauge the interest of the parents who are going to live there, because you don't know who's going to live there, let alone how to reach them. Then it makes much more sense to start a public school, simply because you don't know who's moving in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u359	The latter is in that sense relatively that a municipality in the surrounding neighborhoods of the new building district that is to be started can also carry out that measurement or research. The municipality can do so on its own initiative. I have also experienced this in a new building district in the municipality where I myself have been a council member. That is where research has indeed been carried out and choices have been made for schools. The automatism of new building district so public education really goes a bit too far. It's hard to gauge the interest here, I realize, but you can do something with that. That's what investigations are for. Try to find out that way. Then it may well be that the first school is public education, but it doesn't necessarily have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u360	Mr. Chairman. Just drawing on my own experience: I was able to build a school in Leidschenveen, a large Vinex location, together with Ypenburg. Because of all this stuff, there were almost people living there while the schools were still coming. Then you can still determine it, but of course that's a really wrong order. The facilities must be ready when people arrive, especially in primary education. If we concentrate this question on primary education, because those are the children who should have the nearest home education, then an average new building district is certainly able to accommodate at least two primary schools, I am sure. We're not talking about an extra street here, we're really talking about a location. Doesn't it make sense to say that at least one of those schools should be a public school?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u361	I think it makes more sense, also in view of the way in which we are putting it now, that a municipality that is going to set up a new building district is itself moving to do that research, to measure the real interest. Maybe you're right about your assessment, but you don't have to. You might say that you think there's enough interest. That examination by the municipality from the guarantee function can therefore result in this, but it could also be that it is not. That automation that must necessarily be the first public school, I do not go along with it, and otherwise it can be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u362	The Minister is still discussing the amendments in writing. Perhaps he can explain a little more about how this research should be carried out in this amendment, because I still find it rather difficult to predict who is going to live in a neighbourhood that still needs to be built.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u363	I'd be happy to make that commitment. I had already promised, but we will pay some extra attention to this. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of amendments to which I will respond briefly, which I have put together, and a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u364	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u365	Mr Kwint's amendment to item No. 11 on the substitute nuclear targets, I advise against. It is a kind of valve clause, because in practice it is not doing anything yet. It is also not self-evident that this can be done at the time when one calls for it, because then one must come up with an alternative which will also be assessed. We like to keep this possibility in the law. The Education Council has also advised this on a number of occasions. The amendment in part No. 10 has to do with student transport. I do not recommend this, and I refer to my first comment at the beginning of my first term: we are not going to shop very selectively. This is simply a right that comes from laws and regulations. It cannot be said that we do not do that in new schools, whereas in general there is a right to do so. But apart from that, the cabinet does not intend to remove this possibility. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u366	A brief response from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u367	I understand that denominational student transport is a law-abiding right. That's exactly why I'm proposing to change the law. If it makes it easier for parents to set up a school according to their beliefs, then it makes sense for you to say, on the other hand, that you look again critically at previously acquired rights such as the right to a grant to allow your child to go to school 60 kilometers further? There's a very logical connection between those two, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u368	What we're arranging right now is for new schools. I have just indicated that, as far as rights arising from our laws and regulations are concerned, you cannot just say selectively: for this group we are not going to do it anymore, but otherwise we can. That's a legal injustice that wouldn't stand up in court. Apart from that, the cabinet just doesn't intend to delete this. This amendment is therefore in dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u369	Finally, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u370	This amendment is not about deleting only the new cases. It would remove the funding of the entire denominational student transport. In my view, the Minister's argument does not go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u371	Then my second argument applies, and then it is quite wrong to do so through this law. Then there is the amendment to item No. 22 on the evaluation. That is a sympathetic amendment. However, I would ask the authors to amend the amendment and to make it five, ten and fifteen years. I'm asking for the following reason. Three years is just really too short to really get going with this law. An evaluation takes quite a while. Then we still have far too little information to carry out a really good evaluation. Five, ten and fifteen could be a good deal. Then it becomes even longer than the proposers want, because they stop at nine. In the intervening years, however, we ask the inspection, which includes the subject of segregation in the Education Report, to be extra alert to the effects of this law. The Education Report therefore even provides you with annual information on segregation and this should be involved. I therefore advise against this amendment, unless you amend it, and I will do so in writing. The amendment in part No. 26 does not relate to this bill, but to a completely different bill, namely the General Law on Equal Treatment. I do not recommend this amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Van Meenen's amendment, which has made it clear in a short space of time that he has a new portfolio, namely the connection to childcare. I understand Mr Van Meenen's wish. He believes that this should be linked, but I think that the provision in his amendment is a little too binding. An obligation ahead of me goes too far. In the end, it is also up to parents to indicate whether they need childcare. In the WPO, this is what the abbreviation "We've also arranged. If necessary, this can also be found in the parents through the measurement of interest. That now as an obligation in this law would be contrary to the provisions that we have included in the WPO. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question from Mr Kwint: can boys and girls be admitted separately? A separate boys' school or a separate girls' school is not possible. This law doesn't change that. As far as we're concerned, that's not the way we should go. In the law, we've already just included provisions that can't do that. Mr. Chairman. I should like to make a few comments on this point. 28 by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Meenen on the parental contribution, which I have just mentioned in my contribution. That's what I'm judging, Room. I think it's okay if that's taken care of on paper as well. That is another additional threshold when it comes to combating segregation. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Van den Hul. What we can do, I think we should do through this law. Then there is the amendment to item No. 27 by Mrs Westerveld. That is the amendment we have just discussed in detail. I do not recommend this amendment, but I believe that there are opportunities for a different provision in the law to regulate properly the subject that you hold dear. I'll let you know if you want anything with that. Then there is the amendment to item No. 29 by Mr Van Meenen on the admission of broad schools only. I'd advise against it. I think that is too much of a limitation. I have just mentioned the example from Eindhoven. It is true that we have indicated that we want something around broad bridge classes and around encouraging broad schools. I have also promised the Chamber that we will take this into account in simplifying the financing of secondary education. That's what you ordered me to do. In this way, I am working on it, but I would find this amendment to be too restrictive of the freedom we want to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u372	We note in the coalition agreement that we want to stimulate broad bridge classes. You can't have them without a wide offer. Then it is quite strange that you say: when we want to, we open the door to more category schools. So that's basically the background. So I don't quite understand what the contradiction is with anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u373	I think it's too big a limit on the space we want to give. I have just given examples of situations in the country, where we cannot explain the situation reasonably. For example, one might want to have the one department, because there is a clear interest in it. In such a case, that means that a school will eventually become wider. But we do not give that space in such a case, because from now on we will say: it should only be if it is a completely wide-ranging school community. As far as I am concerned, that is a step too far, so I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u374	Finally, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u375	That example only confirms what I am saying. By the way, adding a department is not the same as starting a new school. We want to broaden. At the moment, the practice is that there is a lot of narrowing, for example, to attract certain pupils, to do cherrypicking in that so-called market of pupils. I think it's good to turn that crane off on the side of the new schools. In any case, it won't rush with new schools, but if they are then, please let it be broad schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u376	I'm sticking to my earlier judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u377	Then we move on to the other amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u378	I am going to make Mr Van Meenen a little more happy by means of the amendment to item No. 30, by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen, on the inclusion in the legislative proposal of parental involvement, participation and the WMS. Mr Rog spoke about this in particular in his speech. I am in favour of adding the design of the WMS to the other elements of quality. I think that's a good idea. The second part of that amendment, namely a description of how parents of children have been involved in the foundation of the school, is somewhat complicated to me. In my view, that is simply secured by the measurement of interest. According to the GDPR, the initiator also has no data from the parents. So there is also an AVG aspect attached to it. I would therefore ask you to take that second part out of your amendment, and then I can give a ruling to the Chamber. I see you nodding. Can I put it that way? If so, then the amendment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u379	I heard the minister. I'll take a look at the lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u380	Then there were all kinds of questions about the acceptance obligation and the like. Well, I think I've been clear about that. I will gladly have a debate on this once, but in the broadest sense, and not just on new schools that are going to be created. That debate will also be held fairly quickly, I think. As far as I am concerned, the research I have just promised will be a broader one. I do not think Mrs van den Hul was in the Chamber for a moment, but I also congratulated Mrs Dijksma, who was Secretary of State for Education at the time, because she was very keen on this subject at the time. After that, very little has actually happened. The Cabinets after that have not been very interested in it. This cabinet is picking it up again. So I'm going to do a new study and report back to you on the results in due course. I'll tell you what I'm saying. You may be a little disappointed in rejecting a number of proposals, but this is what we are going to do. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint has also tabled an amendment on home education. That is a completely different issue. I will send you further proposals in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u381	Is that the amendment to item No. 16? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u382	Yeah, at least it was. Hasn't it changed? No. We know that home education is about individuals and not about starting schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u383	The Minister says in some of my amendments, I understand that politically speaking, it does not have much to do with this. I'll fight that. These are achievements that have grown historically or have been given to parents, because they could not find a school that fits their beliefs, e.g. student transport, for example exemption. When your parents give you more room to set up a school, based on any belief, that makes it easier to form a collective and set up a school, it makes sense to also look at the acquired rights and to see if they are still so necessary at the time when you are going to expand the room for new schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u384	I agree with Mr Kwint that it would also be very good if we could agree to look very closely at what we have arranged for home education. That's what the Cabinet is doing. I'm even preparing a bill. That is the time to talk about this. Then you can have this bill in mind when it finally becomes a reality. This bill is about starting schools and, to add this now, I do not think it is so appropriate. You may think otherwise, but that's my judgment. Mr. Chairman. Then the defuse. Mr Van Meenen and others asked about this. Perhaps it was also a question from Mr Kwint, because he has asked for everything, so that might well be possible. We also talked about defuse last week. I do not know whether that amendment has been adopted; in my view, it is a question of making agreements with the competent authority on what you do if you do not get out with the fusion impact assessment. The assumptions made therein are one possibility for opting-out, for standing on its own feet. I also indicated at the time that this legislative proposal in that sense would allow for this to happen very quickly, because there may already be teachers, pupils, parents and such like to just apply and say: we want to leave this school. If we then meet the quality requirements and numerical requirements, then we will have to put them into that initiative. That's easier than it is now, because you don't have to belong directly to a direction or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u385	My question was whether, in such a situation, you could not apply an enlightened regime, because the school already exists. You're much better at determining what's already going on, so I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u386	I don't think that's a good idea anyway. I do think it can be done more quickly, because a number of things are already ready, so we do not have to do a lot of work again to develop everything. I think that it is very soon possible to produce matters relating to the adequacy requirements, what is being asked of the driver and so on. But I do think that we should simply make the same demands, because if we are a little too easy because it is going to be a light procedure, then we could also be very sorry. So I think it's gonna be faster, because there's a lot already. I agree with Mr Van Meenen. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint had also asked a question about the shrinking areas. You know that there is still a procedure to measure real interest and that demographic developments are also being taken into account. That's what it's up against. In view of shrinkage, it is very important that we do this with each other. I believe that the whole process of making agreements with each other and bringing governance together in shrinking areas will help, because this, I hope, will lead to further cooperation. But if one has an initiative, if there are enough parents and if one meets all the conditions, one must have a place in the whole. Even if it is a shrinking area, if one can show that there is sufficient interest, one must get that place, with all the requirements of cooperation in it. Mr Kwint has also tabled an amendment. I just lost the number. It's part of the directions. The aim of this amendment is to keep the situation of the two groupings as it is. I have seen the amendment somewhere, but I understand now that it has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u387	I did not mention the word 'collaboration' at all. That's for the first time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u388	Then that's someone else. That is the first question you have not asked. That's also a good time to experience it. Maybe we should think about that. That's just like the substitute nuclear targets. There are a number of things that we have agreed to keep in this law. But we'll supplement it with the space for direction-free planning. We're not gonna change that. So we'll keep it that way. The same applies to foundation standards. That's not what we're discussing right now. This has already been discussed in detail in the paper on the report. I've already talked about the warranty function. I have also spoken about the amendment to item No. 30. I haven't talked about commercialization yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u389	What number does the amendment have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u390	That is not an amendment, but questions have been asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u391	We have two further amendments here. Maybe it's good to mention them. That is the amendment to item No. 21 and the amendment to item No. 21 and the amendment to item No. 21 and the amendment to item No. 21 and the amendment to item No. 21 and the amendment to item No. 21 and We're still missing a judgment on that. Can that be true?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u392	I'll take it with me in second term, because I don't have it right now. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what I'm judging, Room. The amendment aims to leave room for us if it is "insufficient" but we do not do so in the case of "very weak." I think he's right that we need to put the energy into other things first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u393	And you will come back to Amendment No 2 in the second term. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u394	Yeah, I'm gonna keep the tension on that amendment for a while. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about commercialisation. This bill does not change the non-profit nature of our education. There was also a large article recently going around through The Correspondent, comparing it with Sweden. It also suggested that we would change Article 23. Well, the bill doesn't. But it also suggested that we would suddenly open all the doors. The situation in Sweden is completely different from that in the Netherlands, not only because of the fact that we have been dealing with this openness since the very beginning. We have had more than a century's experience of this in the Netherlands, and Sweden has only a very short time to deal with it. But in Sweden it is also true that it can be profitable, that profits can be distributed. That's what scares us. We don't. Sweden is quite an example to us in a number of respects, but not in this respect. I thought, frankly, that article sailed a little past our bill. But we also grant that right to everyone. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered the questions with this. So I will come back to that one amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u395	That's good. Has there been a question left, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u396	There was no question, but I still have a question in response to the Minister's response on commercialization. I have asked a number of questions about this. It is not just about the situation in Sweden. When we organised the round table, a number of people pointed out that, because it is now easier, with quality guarantees, to set up a school, it might well be the case that some commercial providers are now also considering working with a school. I have asked the Minister a number of questions about this. I asked: is it possible, for example, to set up a new school through a holding structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u397	In my opinion, you asked whether a holding structure might still have some commercial profits and so on. I think I've been very clear about that. No, there is no room for such things in our educational system. And we just don't want to. Non-profit is, as far as we are concerned, a very guiding principle. We do not want Swedish situations here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u398	Clear. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. We talked about a very large and complicated law. That's what I said in the first term. The main concern we see, namely that this legislative proposal leads to more division, has not been completely removed. This also has to do with the fact that quite a number of amendments have been tabled, by me and by a lot of other people here. We have noticed that the Minister is betraying many of our amendments. I have a number of doubts about that. We do not write such amendments for nothing. We are trying to put the great concerns we have on paper and actually make changes to the law. I am not convinced by the Minister's counter-arguments that we should withdraw some of our proposals. When it comes to this issue of segregation, I look forward with interest to the explanations that are still going to come on paper, but I can already say that I found it a difficult discussion on points. I have one more question for the Minister. He went very quickly on the point that the national partnerships can exclude schools. I would ask the Minister to deal with this a little longer. It was two sentences, which at least I couldn't follow very well. As far as my group is concerned, cooperation should always allow schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u400	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u401	Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to the beginning of the debate: the debate we had on, for example, sexual diversity. I found it a little too easy like the Minister who took place completely outside the order of this sitting, because the extent to which you already have core objectives that you can maintain and the question of how much more additional schools are being set up makes it much more complicated to keep an overview of what is happening, indeed, interrelated. That does not mean that I am not happy with the step taken by the Minister, but I do have one small addition to it. We need to look not only at the Islamic schools, but more broadly at the teaching material in the field of sexual diversity. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are schools that use teaching methods that counter modern thinking about sexuality and sexual diversity or that look at each other as adultery;]] [[Whereas public-funded schools must comply with defined core objectives, including respectful learning to deal with differences in people's views and sexual diversity;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the extent to which teaching methods in both primary and secondary education in the field of sexual diversity meet the core objectives and fall within the legal frameworks;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for measures if this is not the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Beertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35050-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u402	I'm not going to answer for the Minister. It is perfectly capable of doing so itself, but I would like to point out to Mr Kwint that this study was carried out three years ago at the request of the Minister for Education, by the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u403	I know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u404	Yeah, well, maybe not, because when that report came, I asked for it to be settled. That request was not from us, but from a number of colleagues. But it's never really been very well discussed. It's gone a little under the dust. That report does answer the question that Mr Kwint is now putting in the motion. So maybe that motion is just unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u405	Maybe. That would surprise me, quite frankly, since we have just heard today that the Minister also has questions about certain teaching methods and how they are being implemented. He also sends the inspection himself to take a critical look at it. So... It could be and in that case the motion is also easily enforceable. Then it's already there and there's just a little update to take place. But, frankly, I'm not quite convinced of that yet. Then it's about the law itself. The Minister rightly considered the benefits of this law: forecasting systems, directional recognition, quality test, driver test. These are all improvements, but our group had and has two great fears. One, experimenting with children through unproven educational concepts and, two, segregation. On that first one, I think we've come quite far each other's way. I do not yet fully share the Minister's objections to my own amendment, but the difference is not so great. But in the case of segregation, I think that's a bigger difference. I think the ball is put down way too much in all kinds of places other than here. Of course, there are a lot of things that others can do, but sending a school in formation to a consultation that we all note is that it does not work or does not exist in a municipality, is not a sufficient step against segregation for us. And I mean a step that we can take here. We are not yet convinced that this law is a step in the right direction. Finally. I had a very specific question about getting out of a dome. I would like to go into this a little more in detail. My question was this. What if a school wants to get out of a dome? The co-determination council agrees, because it also wants to get out of the dome. Is it then possible for a school to step out of a dome if a board and a co-determination council want to, but not the board of the dome? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u406	Mr Bruins has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u407	I would like to add to Mr Bishop's remark that this is the inspection report called dealing with sexuality and sexual diversity, a description of the educational supply of schools. That's an inspection investigation and the report came out June 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u408	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u409	I am curious to see what Mr Kwint needs to vote in favour of this law. He talks about the measures that allow you to assess whether or not extra segregation is possible. I believe that an amendment by Mrs Westerveld has been tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u410	That amendment belongs to us together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u411	There is no doubt that this is also an amendment tabled by Mr Kwint. Is that what Mr. Kwint means? Is that the decisive amendment for him or...? How am I supposed to see this at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u412	I did have some more notes on my vocals, but what I am worried about is those two points. Those are the unproven educational concepts. I would also like to say to the Minister that the amendment simply asks schools to explain their concept. That doesn't mean they're just concept schools, because every school has an educational concept. That amendment simply asks every school to explain it. And indeed, I want more checks that this law is not going to do what I'm afraid it will do, namely promote segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u413	We're not going to have that discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u414	No, Mr. Chairman. But we have just found in public schools that the future is difficult to predict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u415	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u416	There are also more factors in the field of segregation than just education. So my question is exactly what Mr Kwint is looking for. We'll also have a First Room later. The law won't make it there unless someone from the opposition comes along. Quite specifically, I'm just curious what it takes. That is what the First Chamber is about, but what is needed in the eyes of Mr Kwint? When are you going to vote for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u417	You're overestimating me now. I am going to vote for it if I am convinced on those two points. That is where my main concern lies. So those are the scientific safeguards and the fight against segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u418	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u419	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I had already said in the first term that my group supports this law. I would like to thank the Minister for leaving my amendment to the Chamber. That leaves me with one question. A school leader would like to start a school in secondary education, but because of the current method this could not be done on the basis of predictions. He expects to be able to do it based on the real interest of parents. My question is when this school leader can start, as the Minister now sees fit to carry out this legislative process. When can the first school be expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u420	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u421	Mr. Chairman. There have been many hand-outs tonight, from the opposition and also from a number of coalition parties. For the moment, however, we do not see the Minister really taking these hand-outs as an opportunity for more grip. Grip to promote equality of opportunity, to counter segregation and to prevent undesirable situations like those that dominated the news in recent days. As far as I am concerned, this debate does not sufficiently remove the concerns expressed, among other things, by different educational lawyers, the VO Council and a whole list of people. They are justified concerns, about booth schools, about undesirable competition and about the limited role of the municipalities. I also agree with what Mr Kwint said about the very short turn that the Minister took, as far as I am concerned, in response to my questions on the role of inspection in maintaining compliance with the core targets and ensuring social security for, for example, Libya. Of course, we will come back to this later, but it certainly has to do with the legislative proposal that is on the table tonight. We welcome the announcement of the more extensive investigation into segregation. We are also pleased that the Minister is picking up the glove of one of my illustrious predecessors, but as far as this law is concerned, we are far from reassured. I have no choice but to say: to be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u422	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u423	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for all his answers, but also for the fact that, to my liking, he has been involved in the Chamber and has really looked into how we can better ensure in the front of the law that educational quality is guaranteed for students. I'm okay with that. From one point of view, I would like to ask him if he would specifically take that with him. I'm not going to table a motion on that. It is the 0.7 factor in interest registration. That sounds good. As far as I am concerned, we are about to get on with this, but I would like to ask him whether he would like to include this explicitly in the monitoring and evaluation, because I can imagine it for p.o. and vo, or for shrinking and growing areas may be different. I think it is right that we should stick to that, to speak with the Minister for a moment. I am satisfied with the answers and I will advise my group to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u424	Thank you, Mr. Rog. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u425	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the comprehensive answer from which we have been able to distill our answers. That's nice. Thank you also for the positive assessment of the amendment and for the Minister's agreement that a school that does not score enough should not open up a subsidiary. Let them put their energy at headquarters first. Mr. Chairman. We have listened to the answer to the foreign initiators in the Netherlands. I have a motion on this with my colleague, Mr Rog, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the provision of education at each school should contribute to the basic values of the democratic rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that foreign promoters who wish to open a new school or a new annex in the Netherlands will also be examined in advance on their plan of shaping citizenship education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35050-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u426	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers. He dissuaded my amendment and also with great words, so I'm going to say something about it. I deliberately do not speak of'religion' in my amendment. Each religion is an underlying vision of life. But not every underlying vision of life is a religion, even though it often looks like a religion. Islam is like this, an all-destructive ideology, fascist and imperialist, which has nothing to do with our democratic rule of law and our Constitution. The greatest danger to our freedom and our way of life. To date, we have struggled with the lack of legal instruments to ban the Cornelis Haga Lyceum and to ban that Islamic university in Rotterdam. The latter could happen when we withdrew the accreditation via a detour. Then the money flow dried up. We actually did that in the way Al Capone was defused: not for murder and manslaughter, but because he hadn't filled out his tax form properly. I think that's a weakness offer. We want to close all Islamic schools. That's obvious. We also have an initiative law for this. But this is about new schools to be set up. This amendment provides for the possibility of establishing a legal instrument to withhold this funding in advance, for example, from national-socialist schools. I called that Eva Braun College. That is not the case at the moment, but I do not think it is a caricature either. In any case, these are Islamic schools where the most terrible things are taught in funded education. If you operate under a vision of life in which man and woman, lhbti+, non-believers and leavers are not equal, then such a school violates the Constitution. Such enemies of the Constitution cannot be protected by that same Constitution. Being legal, the Minister says, means making the same demands on everyone. Well, by dissuading my amendment, this minister, on the basis of his interpretation of the Constitution, protects ideologies such as Islam and national socialism, which want nothing more than to replace our rule of law with their own perfide system. It is precisely these defenders of the rule of law who are putting our rule of law at risk, and that is a terrible observation. That's what I wanted to say, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u427	There is a problem with what Mr Bertema brings in. In itself, you would say: who can be against banning the establishment of schools that are directly opposed to our rule of law? If I only see the title of that amendment, I think: I actually do not, nor do I want to. The problem with the PVV is that below it is not even below it, it is on all sides actually the agenda is that all Islamic schools should be banned. Mr Beertema agrees with me that there are simply Islamic schools in this country, for example in Rotterdam, which are well-suited to the demands he actually makes and which simply support our rule of law. That means that I cannot vote in favour of such an amendment, because that underlying agenda is so strongly behind it. Why would he do that? Why does he say it like he says it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u428	I say it as I say it because I am afraid, with all due respect to Mr Van Meenen, that there is an information deficit. I've been to those Islamic schools that are doing a lot of work, going outside, being state-of-the-art, integrating, and so on. That was a few years ago. In those same schools, Islamization is increasing enormously: all those children in those robes and those headscarfs that can no longer be thought away, which are being enforced. That Islamization is progressing. Outside, to the inspection and to you when you're on a job visit, there's really another picture. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Even Newsuur and those other media have now for the first time been shocked to see how serious it is. I would advise you to finally believe that from the media. Go with them, talk to those reporters, because it's far worse than you think. It's not 5:12, but it's 5:12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u429	Last time, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u430	Although I have spent one year in education less than Mr Beertema, I am still going to work. And I too, like Mr Beertema, am not retarded when I walk into a school. For example, I do not plead for nothing for unexpected visits rather than the rigged circus that we actually maintain. I asked for a debate this afternoon on the problems in these schools. But I think we should keep it clean. We have one law. That applies to everyone, and we have to stick to it. Freedom is no more for one than for the other. We have to choose another criterion, namely whether it happens. Is this democratic rule of law being complied with? That is really a different approach from the one where your agenda is actually that the whole Islamic education needs to go away. Because then you are not the party for freedom, but the party for freedom for some.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u431	No, I'm defending everyone's freedom. I'd like to give Mr. Van Meenen one more thing. There is now a strong artificial distinction between salafistic schools and Islamic schools. That's the same thing you say: there were Nazis who weren't so bad. They weren't easy. With Islam, it's exactly the same. It is an inherently violent, imperialist, fascist ideology that seeks to overthrow our rule of law, just as national socialism was. You can now insist that there are those nice Nazis, or those integrated Muslims, but unfortunately it does not work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u432	Are we going to finish this debate this way? I think you made your point, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u433	I'd like to contradict the fact that I'd say there were some nice Nazis, too. That seems to me to be a path we should not go on at all. It's getting weirder and weirder and weirder and weirder and weirder and weirder and weirder and That's not what I'm after at all. I just want to talk about an amendment in relation to what Mr Beertema said at first. Anyway, let's just say there weren't any nice Nazis in my eyes either. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u434	Okay. I suggest you move on, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u435	Well, I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u436	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u437	May I make one more comment to Mr Van Meenen? Let us indeed talk about the substance of the amendment and not about the philosophy behind it. Then I'll just invite you again to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u438	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u439	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the appropriate answers to the questions and for the reactions to the amendments. I do see the hesitations that remain with this bill, but I think that this bill is indeed an improvement on the current situation. The conclusion is that I will advise the group to vote in favour of this bill. We have to get to the point where we have to get to the point where we have to get to the point where we have to get to the point where we have to go to the point where we have to go to the point where we have to go to the point where we have to go to the point where we have to go to the point where we have to go to the point where we The Minister has indicated this, and we are going to work on it, so that it will also be a beautiful and completely acceptable amendment. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u440	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u441	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response to all the proposals, including those from the Chamber. But here's what I'm sorry about. In the coalition agreement, we agreed not only that we are going to implement this law, but also that we also have a few other objectives, such as combating inequality of opportunity, achieving more wide-ranging schools and so on. With new schools of course you also have new opportunities to move in a new direction. I have made a few proposals myself. I am sorry that the Minister has responded in this way. We'll see how the Chamber feels about that. Either way, it won't stop me from voting for the law. At least to advise my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u442	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister may respond immediately and provide an opinion on the motions submitted. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for the contribution in the second term. I am passing through the various speakers and the questions that have been asked. Mrs Westerveld has indicated that she is thinking about the answer about segregation and whether it is sufficient or not. I can tell from my point of view that I've tried to see if we could find each other anywhere. I think you have a point: we cannot pretend that there is no such thing as a legislative proposal as this is about to become a reality. I have indicated that because your proposal for a segregation test does not have a clear legal basis, it is the question of whether it will actually work and whether it will have the effect that we are aiming for together, also knowing that segregation is quite a complicated issue, even if you are only addressing the bandwidth of education. But we do have opportunities for that. That is the reason, and I say this very strongly to the others who have specifically asked for it, who are sitting on my left side in particular, that I have been looking for a less non-binding way, which does have the effect we are aiming for with each other. Segregation is part of the trade-off to eventually give a school room to start. I have indicated that in the preparation they must make clear how they relate to the approach to segregation and the equality of opportunity in their congregation. That is not a question of 'you must go to a meeting', I say to Mr Kwint. They will also have to make it clear what their contribution will be. Then you also make clear exactly what you stand for as a school and how you relate to that issue. That's a big win. You call that a segregation test? No, you're just making it clear what that new initiative stands for and how you relate to. I have indicated that material effects may be even greater, because at that time, too, in discussions with the municipality and the other school boards, this subject will be on the agenda in this way, and that it could also be very activating in those municipalities where people do not do much with the LEA, the Local Educational Agenda, but where we do want something to happen with each other. That's how I'm trying to find you. I think that we can guarantee that, too, legally. I'll just put it on paper, so you can take some time for it. I understand it might have gone a little too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u444	A short response or question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u445	I think that's a good idea. To be honest, I do not yet see how the presence of a school to be set up is going to give extra energy to the board at a poorly functioning table. But our question is: can you guarantee that we have tried with the amendment that a new school to be set up will not contribute to extra segregation in society? We understand that we can't solve everything by one means. If it can't be called a test, we can think about another name. But what my party is very much looking for is the assurance that we will not see the education segregation taking a further flight, precisely because of this bill. If the Minister comes back to that, we will see it in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u446	I really think there are ways to find each other here. I have made sincere efforts to this end. That is why I was a little disappointed in the way Mrs van den Hul reacted. I sincerely try, even with this bill in my hand, to look at effective ways of achieving the goals. Anyway, I'll come back to a question she asked. Mrs Westerveld has asked another question about the two partnerships that have been put together slightly differently from the others. At the time, appropriate education was given scope by the Act. They just function well, too. We see no reason to change it now, so we will keep it going. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint has tabled a motion on the assessment of teaching methods. That's the motion in part No. 31. I would ask him to hold on to this motion for a resolution. I have just instructed the inspection to clarify this specific case which now arises from the broadcasts of Nieuwsuur, and to assess what is going on there. You're going to expand that in one move. I think it would be a good idea if we had a debate with each other if we had that information. Then, of course, we can always see whether it is necessary to carry out further research, but for the moment I would say: hold the motion for a moment. I hope it doesn't take longer than necessary and this information is coming our way quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u447	A brief response, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u448	It's a good thing the Minister's gonna do that. I just gave him an example myself. I think that, in other words, the same thing may be happening in practice. Then I'd say turn it around. You put the education inspector to work today. Great! Nothing but praise for that. If you can take this into account now, we can take the outcome of that debate with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u449	We've handled it the way we've handled it now. I do have some concerns about the formation of the education inspectorate, when I see what additional tasks are going to go back there. I hope that they can get their work done there as well. We really need to keep an eye on each other, because that really is a separate question. Maybe we'll come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. It's not possible to just step out of a dome. You can't say: the co-determination council agrees, so we're gonna do that. I explained that in the merger test last week. I have indicated that once this law has become a reality, it offers opportunities to start a school in an area. Then maybe everything is ready to do so quickly. That was a question from Mr Bruins. He asked how long that would take. If this law comes into force next summer, the first school could be implemented in this way two years later. Mrs Van den Hul indicated that she felt that I was passing through a few questions too quickly, which were very important in itself. I didn't take a gram of that either. I have just indicated that I do not want to use this bill for the much broader discussion on which the Labour Party itself has requested a debate. It is true that the inspection will, of course, also have to carry out its monitoring function at the time these schools are launched. We have had a major debate quite recently to ensure that the inspection is given more tools for doing so. That's what we're working on right now. We want to realize that as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog asked for the 0.7 factor, the interest factor, to be included in the monitoring. That's what we were going to do. We have also indicated this in the explanatory memorandum. Mr Heerema has tabled a motion together with Mr Rog, which is the motion in part No. 32 In which he asks to look also at the citizenship part of foreign schools in the Netherlands. We're already in the middle of an investigation right now. We would first like to investigate how we are going to do it, but this is what we are trying to do. So I can give this motion judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Bishop for his second term and also for the consideration he has already made here. Everyone will have to make that assessment. We must realise that we are still in the current situation, which is downright bad on a number of parts and which also leads to a lot of problems if this law does not reach the finish line. We tried to make it a good law. I also understand that not everyone thinks about everything: this is exactly what we have been aiming for. We have tried to stretch it to the maximum to see if we can meet our wishes as much as possible. The prospect that this law would not make it, I find very bad. I am not saying that because I am so anxious to pass legislation, but I am concerned about the practice that is currently taking place in the Netherlands. I say to Mr Van Meenen that we are dealing with all kinds of policies in terms of inequality of opportunity and wide-ranging schools, on which he has pointed the finger. A number of major improvements are also being made to this law on equal opportunities and segregation. So that's where we move along. Here too it may not be the ideal world, but we try to keep everyone together as much as possible and do the good things in it. I look forward to voting with interest. I will see to it that next week you receive a letter in which we briefly motivate all the amendments why we supported them or why we rejected them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u450	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-10.u451	We will not vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motions next week, then we will have Princess Day, but on Tuesday 24 September. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the Stenographic Service, the officials, the staff, the clerks and the people who have followed this debate.
