ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the proposal by Rijkswet van de Mrs Sjoerdsma, Asscher, Van Otterloo, Van Wijgaarden and Van Ojik concerning rules on the creation of temporary exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, i.e. the Rijkswet containment effect Brexit (35130). I would, of course, like to welcome the initiators. It is always a special moment: an initiative law from the Chamber. They are supported in Box K by Mrs Floor van der Zee, policy officer D66 Group, and Mr Laurens Brouwer of the Ministry of Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The initiators have already indicated that they would like to see the continuation of this legal treatment scheduled as soon as possible after the autumn recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, who will speak on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the initiators for taking this initiative, congratulating them and expressing my appreciation for the fact that they have taken this effort. Many of us know how much time and effort it takes to do that. Maybe that's my first critical note, too. In fact, I felt that this was not a legislative proposal that belonged to Parliament, but that the cabinet should have. Perhaps I will pass that question on to the Secretary of State: why was this initiative left to Parliament? Why didn't the cabinet take up this bill? Mr. Chairman. It is a situation in which "order, order, order" no longer exists. There is probably a situation where a deal is dead, dead, and therefore order must be created in chaos. I believe that this initiative proposal will help to provide a solution, in a very sad episode in our decade, for a small but nevertheless essential group of Dutch people, who have lived and lived in Britain for many years, but of course also has many roots here in the Netherlands. We want to offer these people security. We want to offer these people a future, no matter what chaos Britain pours out over itself and Europe. That is why I warmly welcome this initiative. Mr. Chairman. I started with a critical note, because I actually think the cabinet should have picked this up. When other Member States fail, it is essential that you stand up as a Dutch State. That's why it's a good thing the initiators picked up that ball. Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions. This is a question to the initiators. There are more countries within the EU that are facing this problem. How did they solve that? The initiators refer to two countries, but I think it applies to more countries. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I have a second question. Imagine that there is still light at the end of the tunnel and it doesn't come to a Brexit, but that the mind is going to dominate. Does this initiative fall off the table, or do we maintain it? That's what I want to ask the initiators. Finally, Mr President. For some time now, the Labour Party has felt that a dual nationality should return to normal. Because you can live in Canada or Australia. Those people of Dutch origin also have the need to maintain their relationship with the Netherlands. It is not for nothing that Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Marcouch have already drawn up an initiative law to lay down this standard in Dutch legislation. The initiative law's been shut down for a while. I'll take it from Mr Marcouch. I would like to say: let this emergency legislation, which has been triggered by chaos, be a step towards more. If the initiators could pick up that glove, too, that would be worth a sweet thing to me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	There is a famous statement: never washed a good crisis; make sure you benefit from a crisis. Actually, Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA does. A Brexit without appointments would be a crisis. I think we can agree as a chamber on that. We don't really want any of that. But she uses that as a stepping stone to make the dual nationality normal. As far as you are concerned, is that at the heart of today's debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	The heart of the debate is just emergency legislation. This is specifically about the Dutch who now live in Great Britain. But it is not for nothing that I ended my speech with the call "let this be the prelude to more." It is not for nothing that the Labour Party, together with D66, has an initiative proposal to regulate that. So in that respect, never washed a good crisis; let's settle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	We have discussed it in detail in our group and we are different in nationality from the Labour Party. We want to look favourably at the bill because it is an emergency situation, a limited group and a temporary situation. But if the agenda is actually'make this a step towards dual nationality', then perhaps you are putting our group in trouble, so I would say to the Labour Party. Because we do not want to see this as a stepping stone to that situation. Can the PvdA understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	I can understand it, but I would say just look at the Dutch who are now in uncertainty in Great Britain. Make sure this bill makes it, and then let me wish that this is a stepping stone to dual nationality as a normal standard. I am also looking at the people in Australia and Canada. But I know that this is an emergency measure specifically aimed at the people who now live in Britain. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Özütok. She will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Most of us still hope that eventually there will be no Brexit, that the United Kingdom will remain a member of the European Union and that it will work together with our country and the other Member States to strengthen the European Union. Because yes, GroenLinks also thinks there is still a lot to improve. But whether or not there will be a Brexit, and if there will be a Brexit, whether it is a hard Brexit or still a Brexit with a deal, we simply don't know. We still don't know. The unpredictability of the British government brings a lot of uncertainty for people. They are concerned about essential conditions for matters such as living, working, studying and caring for parents or children. Since nobody really knows how this is going to work out, we do not want the Dutch who are now living in the United Kingdom to wait any longer in uncertainty. It is good that we are discussing this bill today, which is a good, very necessary initiative of five parties. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I would like to express my appreciation for the hard work that had to be done in a relatively short time. Compliments to the proposers and their support. I would like to congratulate Mr Sjoerdsma as the first and original initiator from here on. Mr. Chairman. As will be argued more often today, the Brexit creates enormous unrest for Dutch people living in the UK. They still don't know what they're up to. This initiative law is a puzzle piece that hopefully can overcome the uncertainty and potential problems for Dutch people in the UK. We do not have the illusion that this law will solve all the potential problems for those people, but GroenLinks sees this as a sensible contribution by the Dutch legislator to solving the problems that Dutch people will be able to experience after a possible Brexit. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we must try to complete this legal process as soon as possible, so that the law can come into force as soon as there is a Brexit and the people who are involved here have some sort of safety net. Mr. Chairman. My group still has a number of questions to the initiators and to the government. Let me start with the question of the capacity at the consulates and embassies once this law has been implemented. Is there sufficient capacity for this with the current occupation, or does the initiators and the Secretary of State think it is necessary to use more staff for this purpose? And how are Dutch citizens in the UK informed about this law? Do we leave the initiative to them to apply for a passport, or is the Dutch government actively informed about the existence of this possibility? If the latter is the case, how and when will it be set in motion? I would like to receive a response from both the initiators and the Secretary of State. Another concern is the general information about the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap and the complicated rules surrounding it. My group has received a lot of reactions from Dutch residents living outside the EU who, by failing to renew a passport in good time, have silently lost Dutch citizenship without knowing it. The Ombudsman also referred to this earlier. Can the Secretary of State indicate what steps have been taken so far and what steps are still being taken? After all, we must prevent the Dutch from being surprised by their Dutch identity outside the EU. I am also curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the renewed appeal of Dutch people abroad that was in the NRC yesterday. They indicated that due to the strict nationality legislation in our country, they would be in trouble if they were looking for a job or a home. Mr. Chairman. My group asks the initiators to make an assessment of the possible consequences with regard to a move of Dutch residents living in the United Kingdom back to the Netherlands. Do they think these people will stay there, or will the Brexit give reason to move to the Netherlands? And if that is the case, to what extent is the Netherlands prepared for that? Mr. Chairman. As has been said, my group hopes that the Brexit can be averted and that this law will not be necessary afterwards. But because we simply do not know how British politics will develop in the coming weeks, GroenLinks thinks it wise to accept this law. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will wholeheartedly support this law. We'll see what the future shows. Thanks again to the initiators for the work that has been done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin by congratulating the initiative for this emergency law if the gentlemen in box K are also ready. In doing so, the initiators stand up for the citizens, the Dutch in the UK, who are hard hit by the Brexit and are in great uncertainty. An initiative law requires courage and decisiveness. In addition to your Chamberwork, you have to do an incredible amount of work to bring about legislation in a thorough manner. That's not easy. It is very nice that there is broad cooperation between the different parties that do this together. Compliments of course to initiator Sjoerdsma, but together with Van Ojik, Asscher, Van Otterloo and Van Wijngaarden there is a beautiful couple, as it is called. I think the Chamber can be very proud of that. I also share Mr Kikken's comments that it is perhaps a missed opportunity for the cabinet to take this initiative out of the Chamber. On the other hand, you can say again that it is nice that our Chamber has that opportunity. Mr. Chairman. I would like to explain why D66 wholeheartedly supports this emergency law, this initiative. The total chaos that has arisen in the United Kingdom, of course, speaks volumes. It also makes it necessary to do something for the people who are in it and who are in great uncertainty. The centuries-old British democracy beeps and creaks. The Brexit screamers have divided the country. We're heading for a no-deal brexit, with all the consequences of that. It is the Dutch who live in the United Kingdom who are particularly hard hit. There are about 100,000 Dutch people, who have families there, who have their families there, who have jobs there and who are therefore uncertain about their future. In the case of a no-dealbrexit, they are forced to make a choice between British or Dutch nationality. This choice is not necessary, for example in Germany or Austria, because Austria is taking steps and Germany has already taken care of it. But that choice has to be made by the Dutch. It's a choice between headache or abdominal pain. If you choose British nationality, you are no longer a Union citizen and you lose all the rights that go with it. If you choose Dutch nationality, your life in the United Kingdom will become uncertain. So that is a very annoying choice that you do not want to present to people, especially not in the way it is now being made. The Dutch legislation offers no certainty. There was a Brexit law that the cabinet came up with at the beginning of this year. It's caused a lot of dust to blow up. We talked about this intensively. But that law did not provide a solution for the right of residence, the right to vote, the right to return, family reunification and study costs. These are questions from everyday life, which these 100,000 Dutch run into in the UK. The British Government offers far less certainty. The London government has no clear intention of settling anything properly for these people. That's why we have this emergency bill. You could also see this as a kind of safety net for the people who come to a no-dealbrexit in fairly acute problems. In my view, Mrs Özütok and Mrs Kuik rightly said: it is a defined group, a clear group, a clearly framed group, who can claim this law in very exceptional circumstances. That also makes this law proportionate and proportionate as far as my group is concerned. The essence is, of course, that this particular group of Dutch citizens can, by virtue of this law, also apply for British nationality, without having to renounce Dutch nationality. This solves a problem for many people in uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, my group would have preferred this initiative not to have been necessary, for example because there would be no Brexit or no no-dealbrexit. We can't control that. Mrs Leijten and I and Mr Mulder and I and other European Affairs spokesmen often debate Mr Van Ojik knows that we also want to see no Brexit or no-dealbrexit. But no matter how much we debate it, we know that we depend on the movements elsewhere. So we don't have a handle on that. This initiative law could also have been superfluous on the basis of two agreements in the coalition agreement. The first appointment I refer to is that the cabinet pays special attention to the position of the Dutch in the United Kingdom. That's what the coalition agreement says. This law fits very well with that sentence. The second agreement in the government agreement is, of course, that the cabinet extends the possibility of having more nationalities for upcoming first-generation immigrants and immigrants. That's the second date. It is therefore commendable that the initiators remedy this gap with this emergency law. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to comment briefly on the British in the Netherlands. They are, of course, the "mirroted group," so to speak. That is not what this law is about, but I would like to ask the initiators and the Secretary of State what we can do for them, for the British in the Netherlands. There is a transitional regime of 15 months, but this group too has similar uncertainty. What can we do to ensure their stay and their rights here as much as possible? For example, I mention the right to return if, for example, they are staying outside the Netherlands by sick family members. If this lasts longer than six months, they lose the right to return to the Netherlands. D66 thinks that's undesirable. So my question is: what can be done outside this law for this group of people? Finally. Well, the Brexit is a very undesirable and adverse development with a lot of very nasty and adverse consequences. Many of these issues need to be resolved within the European Union or within the United Kingdom. With this initiative law, the initiators show that the Netherlands also has its own responsibility in all events that take place for 100,000 Dutch people living in the United Kingdom. That is why we must do everything we can to help these people as much as possible and to alleviate their suffering. That is why D66 will fully support this initiative. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten, who will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. I often say it in European debates when I come after Mr Verhoeven: now the reasonable noise in the Chamber. I have already said it, and it is a bit of a joke, but when it comes to Brexit, I think that in this Chamber too often it is said that it is really a problem for the other side of the pond. I'm just asking the proposers. I see Macron's attitude and deadline after deadline; Tusk said really breeze to Johnson last night "stop playing games" and throws that on Twitter as well. Isn't a high-level game being played on the European side at the moment? I really understand that after three and a half years of Brexit negotiations, you get tired and irritated, but don't the proposers agree with the SP that all scenarios would be the worst scenario that we would end up in a Brexit without appointments by hotheads, government leaders who can't keep their peace? Do they not agree that it would be desirable for us to have a foreign minister who does not turn away from it and who, in a debate like last night, does not come up with all kinds of you-bowls, but simply says: I am going to call Mr Macron and say 'take it easy'? That is what we say to the British. And that's what I think is right, that's what we're saying. Mr. Chairman. I forgot, of course, to start with compliments. Where government policies fail, MPs have the right of initiative to make laws. And whether we agree with those laws or not, it's really worth a lot of work and compliments. I also like to see that this has been some sort of law of waxing. We know that D66 and the Labour Party are intrinsically in favour of this, but we managed to get the parties 50PLUS and GroenLinks together pretty quickly. And the VVD has also been extended. You already have a majority, I say to Mr. Sjoerdsma. However, I would like to ask you whether you would like to comment on the questions I have here. I've already talked about the Brexit, which is becoming a fighting divorce. We all know that in the event of a divorce, the children are always the victims. In this case, I think the citizens are the children. I cannot understand why civil rights in the negotiations on that divorce have been so committed to political play every time. If there is no agreement now, the continuity of financial products between the City and Frankfurt is long overdue. The United Kingdom has long said that it accepts agricultural products. However, European leaders are so tough to make matters such as trade, civil rights and, for example, medicines use the uncertainty. What do the proposers think of that? And how does the government feel about this? We often discuss this with the Prime Minister and Minister Blok. They also go to all these European Councils. They're a little involved in that game. We don't talk to each other like that: take it easy. But maybe our Secretary of State can do that very well. She's a lady of age, isn't she? Maybe she can say to that Macron and to this Johnson guy: for once calm down, this is about the people! Maybe I can call her to do that. As far as civil rights are concerned, we have been working together a lot in this Chamber. We have actually forced the Foreign Minister to ensure that the rights of the British here in the Netherlands are guaranteed in the Brexit bill. That it's still uncertain is not good, but we really forced it, with motions, with pushing, with questions. It is also very tragic that the Dutch who live in the United Kingdom are now in uncertainty. Emergency breaks the law: that's an important statement. As far as the SP is concerned, that is also a little bit how we look at it. The proposers know that we want someone to have one nationality. Nationality says something about identity, but not everything. Nationality also says something about loyalty, but not everything. We realize that. But we also see that it is a defined group, over a clearly marked period of time. That is why we want to look at it nicely, but we still have a few concerns. First of all, do the proposers see this as an advocacy, as the Labour Party just said? I do not like the Brexit being used as a kind of opportunistic crisis to fulfill this political desire. That's just not what the situation is for. That's what I'd like to know. It is said that this bill goes into a Brexit without agreements, until agreements have been made on civil rights. But what if these civil rights agreements aren't the same as those made with this bill? What do you get? Don't you get the same emergency situation, with the same uncertainty and the same wish from the Dutch who live in Britain at the time of the Brexit? 'Cause that's the defined group. What are we gonna do with that? What are we doing with Dutch people living abroad, outside the European Union, in a country where a government changes, breaks out a revolution, breaks out a war or whatever? What do we do when that regime then says that all foreigners who live there, including Dutch, are being expropriated, are no longer allowed to stay or to receive sanctions? Then, of course, there will be a call from that group, an understandable call, whether he can assume a double nationality. Can they remain Dutch and have the nationality of the country in which that change takes place? So how do we perform? Is this a precedent? I'd like to know how we handle that. And then the legitimate question of the Labour Party, of GroenLinks and I also think from D66 about how we are going to do this in time. We're standing right here. Compliments for the hard work. October 31st is possible that no deal. We don't know how it goes. Until now, we have seen every time, until a few days before, that there was another summit, that there was even more quarrel, with even more hassle in the United Kingdom, in Brussels and generally in Paris. We don't know. October 31st may be October 31st. Is this bill there? Can this take effect retroactively? How does the government view it? Can the government help with this? It is an initiative law of the Chamber, which the government is not waiting for, but we can see that there is a majority. That's what the SP sees. Is it possible to speed up yet? The proposers have the wish to do it after the autumn recess, but that is the week of 31 October, I just say. Finally, the Brexit. The SP does not like to dismiss the outcome of that citizen referendum held in the United Kingdom as "a major mistake of the British." We would have preferred it not to have happened, but it does say something about European cooperation. It also says something about the arrogance that is currently there towards the British when it comes to how we look at it. I think it would be very sensible if a divorce would be averted without any appointments. I hope that the authors, like the SP, will see that this also requires commitment from Brussels, and that at least the peace should be preserved there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues are right to give compliments first, and I am happy to do so. It's a lot of work to make an initiative law. And it's nice to finally get as much support for that as possible and even to say it popularly raking in box-K. Well done, so congratulations for that. I do have questions, actually quite a lot of questions. Fortunately many members have joined, so that might make it easier to answer the many questions, because many hands make light work. Mr. Chairman. I think that the initiators rightly point out that with this dramatic Brexit there is great uncertainty for the people living in the Netherlands and Great Britain. People suffer from what's happening. It's really about the heads of the average UK citizen. It's really sad. It's deeply sad what's going on out there right now. We are, of course, dealing with a result of a referendum, but in the end you can see that people are simply ground up in the complete, dramatic game that is being played. It's a mess with a deadline. Of course, that's a poisonous cocktail. I understand that. So I also understand why the initiators do not want to sit back and watch how ultimately the people who come from the Netherlands are ground. I understand that very well. But I would like to say straight away that my group has very serious reservations about what is going on here. That is because we are fundamentally opposed to dual nationalities. In fact, we are creating a new dual nationality. That's a lot of trouble, isn't it? We see, of course, that a lot of people want to be liberated from their dual nationality. Look at the group of Moroccan people who turn to us and say: "Help us with that liberation, for we suffer from it. We suffer from the long arm of countries. We want that freedom." So these people are not at all so happy with the dual nationality. On the other hand, we often have debates here in the Chamber on the problems of dual nationalities. People sometimes have some sort of loyalty dispute. It's not always the case, but it can play. You can see that people have integration problems and that there is fiscal ambiguity. There may even be political influence on people of dual nationality. It is not for nothing, therefore, that the coalition agreement made it very clear that there must be a moment of choice for persons of dual nationality, in order to end up with a single nationality. That is the starting point, also of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap: we want one nationality in the Netherlands. There are a few minor exceptions, but the starting position is: one nationality. As a CDA, we fully support this approach. That makes, and that is the struggle we are having, that the initiators now want to create an exception for a small group which is now rooted in Britain and has chosen to do so. That's actually "I'm just gonna be honest with you." It's pretty opportunistic. Now I understand that there are parties that say: we want a double nationality anyway, for everyone. So that doesn't apply to them. Then this is just a way to rake another one in, to use the same words again. But for some parties, I also take the VVD, I actually find it special. Because we don't want double nationality, but this is a bit of our people and now it's fine. Then I wonder if the VVD, which is also in trade-K, realizes that 30,000 Somalis will just come back to the Netherlands? I am actually a little curious to see how this is being looked at by the members concerned in box K. Of course, that's what's going to happen. And that is exactly why we are fundamentally double nationalities. We are actually making an exception in a very opportunistic way for a small group. That's what we're struggling with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	There is an interruption by Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	I like to see Mrs Van Toorenburg wrestling. I also think this is a nice and fair struggle. I think that is also a valuable contribution to the debate, so thank you for that. You should always be careful not to say with all different parliamentary groups: we should do so, no one doubts it, pack it up, get out and ready. So thank you for this struggle. I would like to contribute to this struggle by asking for a different perspective. Mrs Van Toorenburg is very much concerned with this dual nationality, which is basically fundamental. I get that from her point of view. She talks about a group of Dutch, opportunistic. I would nevertheless like to look at the Brexit, an incredibly exceptional, almost presedentless situation in the United Kingdom that we have never experienced before and at resolving the situation in a practical way for a clearly defined group of Dutch people. Couldn't that make her struggle a little lighter? And wouldn't that be a little more in line with the intention of this law, rather than the feeling of "we rake another double nationality"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u19	Just the exception for a small group makes my struggle so great. I am always against double nationalities and I always find the VVD and the PVV at my side; perhaps a bit more the old-fashioned right flank. I'm really against double nationality. I see a lot of misery in that. That is what we agreed with each other in the coalition agreement. And then suddenly we have a group that we actually have a little affinity with. I get it; I've lived in England myself, so I get it. But then suddenly our starting point isn't important. That actually makes our starting point a discriminatory starting point. Because apparently that only applies to a group that we have less with. That makes my struggle bigger. That is precisely why I would like to say: if we say honestly and steadfastly that we are against double nationalities, I think that we should continue to do so. But at the same time, I can see that it's a tragedy. That's just why I didn't figure it out. It will depend very much on the answers of the initiators and on the answers of the Secretary of State what we are going to do in the end. 'Cause I can see it's a drama, too. Every week that drama gets bigger. And of course you don't want people to be really ground up; then you also have to act for people who are at least Dutcher now. But I think it is a very opportunistic approach, which actually means that everyone says that he is against double nationality but does not now have a discriminatory form of accepting a double nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you. "Opportunistic" is a word I would never use under this law. I also speak on behalf of the D66 Group when I say that I know that the proposers are only doing so in order to find a solution for a group of 100,000 Dutch people with enormous uncertainty in their living situation in the United Kingdom, where a political crisis is taking place. I have heard Mrs Van Toorenburg and her struggle now. She doesn't know yet, and I'm not gonna convince her. That is not my job either; in this case it is up to the five colleagues in box K. I would just like to say to her that an exception can be something limited and one-off, and that is why it is an exception. I think we should be careful that an exception is not always seen as an advocacy. I really see this as an exception because the Brexit is an exception. I would ask Mrs Van Toorenburg to look at it that way. An exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Verhoeven and I sometimes have debates on the Council of State's position. I'm a little critical of the Council of State now and then. They sometimes have advice that I think: hello guys, come out from under that stone; I might say a bit of blunt. But Mr Verhoeven, on the other hand, is the guardian of the Council of State. He always puts me away a little when I say something ugly, but now the Council of State is actually saying the same thing as me, namely: an exception, do you really have to do that? The Council of State is actually very straight in that respect. I go to the Council of State, while Mr Verhoeven now says: Council of State, make an exception. I think that is one aspect that I want to include. I understand Mr Verhoeven's struggle, but I also think that the Council of State is now a bit critical and that opinion is suddenly less important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Verhoeven, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u23	I hope I come to a conclusion and to a connection. I really tried to understand Mrs Van Toorenburg. I didn't take the term "Council of State" in my mouth, but now I'm standing here as the guardian of the Council of State. Maybe that's what makes politics fun, which is that there's always a turn of events. I have always taken the advice of the Council of State very seriously. I assume that the proposers want to do the same in this case. I have merely indicated that in my responsibility as a politician on behalf of D66, as the handle of this law, I believe that an exception in this case can be justified and that the situation surrounding the exception makes the plausibility of a very limited and precedentless exception very great. I wanted to give that to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I will not comment on the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u24	I do, because the Council of State actually says it's random. I get that. That is why I gave this answer to Mr Verhoeven. We have the great gift that, if we agree with each other, we always see where we differ and now we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg shows her struggle with her principled position on this emergency law. I understand that, because it is an exceptional situation. This is a political crisis that takes place there and leaves thousands of people of Dutch nationality in uncertainty. But Mrs Van Toorenburg is also afraid that Somalis are all coming out this way. What does she mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u26	That's what I'm telling you, especially the VVD. In 2006, 2007 there were rather alarming reports that a lot of people from the Somali community, who did not want to apply and did not get benefits soon enough, went to England because they received benefits faster and did not have to apply. That's where a huge group went and that group is coming back. I am concerned about a group that is totally unintegrated. It could be 30,000, and that's what I'm worried about, too. Everyone thinks that there will be a group coming to the Netherlands who may be enthusiastic in our Dutch society tomorrow, but maybe they won't. I think that is an aspect that we should also mention here. Otherwise we tell everyone that it is all people who work successfully in the City and that they come back to the Netherlands, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u27	It is very strange that Mrs Van Toorenburg picks out one group, while they are also Dutch. It is about Dutch citizenship and an emergency law. Mrs Van Toorenburg does not like these Somalis, because they were not so integrated here before and they are opportunistic. No one here has said, however, that these are opportunistic matters. We are talking here about Dutch people who have Dutch citizenship. They have already obtained this, but yet Mrs Van Toorenburg makes a distinction when it comes to the country of origin of Dutch people. That is not consistent with the principles of state law that it stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u28	This is just a political debate in which I referred to the word 'opportunist'. Mrs Özütok says that now, but I am saying it explicitly. At the same time, I think it is important that when we discuss a law, we take all aspects of it with us. So there is the aspect, which I understand very well, that Brexit is a drama. There is the aspect, which I also understand, that we really have to deal with it, although I think it is a struggle. But it is also about the other aspects. If I'm always against double nationality, I have to be against double nationality in this case, too. There are a number of people who say: yes, but this is a special group, this is a bit of our people. Then I say, well, that's the question. There is also a very large group that comes to the Netherlands where we are going to get a lot of trouble. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u29	I would like to stay away from the debate on the origin of nationality. I'm trying to understand Mrs van Toorenburg's argument. She says: Somalis I want to stay away from it for a while then come back to the Netherlands. But this law is precisely intended to give people of Dutch nationality who live and work in the United Kingdom the opportunity to stay there. It is not intended that people should come back, but that they should be able to stay there, regardless of origin. So Mrs Van Toorenburg's argument that she doesn't want to... it's the other way around. She should support it if she wants people to stay there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u30	That could be the short blow, but I note that we are giving a very large group of people a double nationality even longer. That is what we are opposed to in principle, for all the reasons I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u31	I do not quite follow that example of the Somalis group. In my opinion, their residence permits in the Netherlands did not necessarily give them nationality. I have also given an example of Dutch people staying in a country in which the government is changing or where war is breaking out. What do we do with that? I think we have looked at this bill with the same feeling. Isn't this opportunistic? Isn't there randomness? I know Mrs Van Toorenburg on the one hand as a very strict Member of Parliament, but on the other hand as someone with a warm heart. I would also ask her to recognise that this is not only an exception, but also a temporary exception, which also expires when other agreements have been made. In any case, that is also important for our group. It is not a question of granting a dual nationality for a period of time, but rather of a temporary situation until civil rights are settled in the annoying situation of the Brexit. Does Mrs van Toorenburg of the CDA see that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u32	Yeah, that's an argument to be in favour of. At the same time, it is an argument from the Council of State to say: it is really arbitrary. It really is a small group and a temporary measure. That also makes things more complicated, because apparently it's only about this group. For someone who already intends to go to Great Britain, but then leaves there, it doesn't all of a sudden apply. That's kind of weird, actually. That's someone who's just gonna leave. I find it very difficult, and that's why I keep dubbing here. I notice we're dubbing together with the SP. So I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u33	I really get that. As far as the SP is concerned, it's not an up-to-date thing either. I have just heard D66 say that it is not the case for them, even though we know their position on this. What I find so crazy is that you are very strict on this point, but not on other parts of Brexit's continuity planning. The CDA believes that there should be an exception for trade in cattle and meat and is pursuing the government to grant the NVWA additional controls in this exceptional situation. I agree with that, by the way. The CDA is in favour of allowing medicines that are actually not legally permitted. I support that. The CDA supports the continuity planning of the financial products of the City and Frankfurt as regards the continuity of the financial sector. These are all exceptional situations, all of which have to do with the Brexit and all of which have to do with this particular situation. If I weigh all that down, I think civil rights are just as important. I hope the CDA will eventually go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u34	This is very consistent, because we are committed to international trade in all these aspects, in order to make them more possible. That's why we're here for that. That's why we think you should take care of these things, too. At the same time, we are always opposed to dual nationality, and we are raking it in at once. It's an understandable group, in a lot of misery. I get it all, but I think we should say that it's weird to suddenly make that exception. If I were to say 'I have nothing in international trade' now, I would do exactly as Mrs Leijten says. Of course, it's a little weird to say: all of a sudden I don't have anything with that ability to get that medication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u35	In the field of international trade and the authorisation of products on European territory and in the field of checks on cattle, meat and other trade, we are creating exceptional situations, because the Brexit is so special. If you go through that line, it is not surprising to do it in terms of civil rights in this temporary situation. So I say to the CDA: look at this bill with that strict, but warm heart, just as you look at the cattle farms of NVWA, at the financial products and at the medication. Because this situation is indeed exceptional, we have exceptions to international trade in these areas. You could also have such an exception in this area, because it is a limited group and temporary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mrs Van Toorenburg for a response and then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u37	We not only arrange for you to make an exception in such a situation, but also an exception to your own starting point. My question is whether I should move away from my own point of view, namely that I am against double nationalities. All these other things are things that I always want to take care of internationally. So it is not surprising that I am doing the same with this, but I am now being asked to make an exception to the main rule, which we also agreed once again with our partners in the coalition agreement. That's my doubt, Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, also seen a letter of amendment. It actually states that the law will enter into force when the United Kingdom actually leaves the European Union, without agreement, which will not guarantee those rights. But it actually says, "not sufficiently guaranteed." The initiators themselves state that the term "sufficient" does leave some discretion. Well, let's be honest, that's quite a room for judgment. "Enough" is a very rare vague concept. I would like to know from the initiators who is going to assess whether these rights are sufficiently guaranteed. There will be people for whom it is never enough. There's gonna be people who say it's all over the ditch, but I can live with it. That's kind of the dilemma I'm looking at. So what do we do? Such a concept is so vague that it leads to less legal certainty. The Secretary of State is now also in trade-K and I'm also curious how she looks at this. Can she get away with this? How does the Secretary of State view this? I have another question for the Secretary of State about this bill. The initiators indicate that they hope that the British will deal carefully with Dutch nationals in the country, as we in the Netherlands want to deal well with the people of British nationality who live here. I wonder how the Secretary of State intends to implement that. How do we as a government treat these people as carefully as possible and how do we ensure that people are treated as carefully as possible? That continuity actually lies with the government, and that is why I am asking that question to the Secretary of State. Finally, I would like to know from the Secretary of State how she views the implementation of the coalition agreement, in which we said: one nationality, and the fact that it is now before us, namely that there is an exception to that agreement that we have with each other. I would like an assessment from the Secretary of State for this proposal. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I understand very well why the initiators want to do this and why they are doing their utmost for a group of Dutch people who are being mangled. I see that, I appreciate that, I respect that. Only at the same time I wanted to put my struggle on the table. If you always say, and I've been doing this here in the Chamber for 12 years, I've had the same story for 12 years, namely that I'm not for a double nationality, so I find it really hard to say: it's a bit of our own people and we're making this exception for that. There's my big hesitation. On the basis of the answers given by the initiators and the answer given by the Secretary of State, I shall enter into the debate and debate within my group, to see how we will ultimately vote on this. I can't tell you yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you. Finally, in this first term of office, I give the floor to Mr Mulder, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr President, thank you. Today we are discussing the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in order to minimise the harmful effects of the Brexit. I agree with all the compliments to the authors. Thank you for this law. It has already been said that the United Kingdom will in principle leave the European Union on 31 October. This has negative consequences for hundreds of thousands of Dutch people in the United Kingdom. Last Monday, some of us spoke to representatives of this group in London. You saw these people are very concerned about their future. Not only has my group spoken to Dutch people in the United Kingdom, but everyone in this Chamber has done so. People are concerned, also because the withdrawal agreement, as it is called, which regulates their rights, has now been rejected three times by the British Parliament. This British cabinet says it wants to stand up for EU citizens in its country, but it is totally unpredictable as we have seen over the last few days, weeks, months and actually the last three years. It is therefore a good thing that we have come up with this law to limit the consequences for these people, who cannot do anything about it at all. They must not suffer from the Brexit. Mr Verhoeven has already said that other colleagues have also said that the House of Representatives has adopted the Brexit Act, but it does not regulate matters such as right of residence, return arrangements, etc. This law is necessary because nothing has been arranged yet. The Dutch who live in the United Kingdom can solve their problems by accepting British nationality, but if they do, they lose their Dutch nationality. So they don't. If you really want to solve the problems for these people, you're gonna have to make an exception to the law. They should then be given the opportunity to take up British nationality while retaining Dutch nationality. My group does not think so lightly. I can understand what Mrs Van Toorenburg is saying on behalf of the CDA. Instead of wrestling with it, we started engaging with the initiators to make sure that it really is an exception. I stand here today as a Brexit spokesperson, also to show that this is a Brexit case for us and not a matter of nationalities. It is important that there are two things in the law. The first is a horizon. The law expires six months after its entry into force. At some point the law is off the table again and, if it is right, he has done his job. Secondly, the law only applies if there is no deal or any other arrangement. It only applies exceptionally. We welcome these changes to the law. We all see now that it's really just about the Brexit. That is an exceptional situation and we must do something about it. Finally, I have a question for the Secretary of State. When this law comes into force, it is also important for people in the United Kingdom to know that it exists. For this we need a publicity campaign, especially for older people for whom it is sometimes difficult to be informed through social media or otherwise. We must ensure that everyone, including the elderly, knows about this law when it is passed. Thank you for this law. We'll support him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u40	There is another interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u41	For this debate, I was wondering why the VVD was joined by this law. It has previously rejected motions for resolutions on this matter. I think that Mr Mulder has made that clear. The uncertainty persisted and we can improve the law in this way. I really don't want to ask any more questions about that. But now that he's talking about a publicity campaign, I think it's a little crazy. Why did we wake up to this problem? Because we all may have received hundreds of e-mails from Dutch people in Great Britain who are in big trouble. We have even received the signal from many people that they have chosen British nationality in order to have certainty. Do you really think such a publicity campaign is necessary? Do you not think that everyone who lives in Britain and comes from a Member State of the European Union will follow that Brexit closely and what happens with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u42	I understand the question. I come here on the occasion of my visit to London and a number of other Members who are here. We were there at the Dutch embassy and there we were talking about the so-called "setled status." The Dutch embassy in the United Kingdom is busy approaching people about this, especially the elderly, who are less well aware of this. As a liberal, I always think: people are independent and well informed. But sometimes you see in practice that that is not the case. I heard that last Monday in Great Britain. That is why I am asking this question, on the basis of what we heard last Monday. Not everyone reads all the papers exactly, like we all do here. And not everyone knows exactly how to apply for everything on his computer. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mrs. Leijten? She's gonna let it go. Thank you, Mr. Mulder. He was the last speaker on this first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u44	As mentioned above, the initiators have already indicated that they would like to see the continuation of this legal treatment scheduled as soon as possible after the autumn recess.
