ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu, on behalf of DENK, for his question to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, who is replacing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is about the message that the UN made mistakes in tackling the Rohingya crisis in Myanmar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. My question is about another part of the world, which may seem very far away. In Myanmar terrible things are happening regarding the Rohingya. The United Nations has commissioned an investigation on behalf of the United Nations' greatest boss, Secretary-General António Guterres. I quote from that report: "The United Nations have systematically failed in Myanmar in the run-up to the crackdown of the Myanmari army in 2017 against the Rohingya." The report shows that in the period between 2010 and 2018, there was no clear strategy and a clear plan of action. Instead, there was a conflict between UN agencies. You have to imagine: while a vulnerable group of people is being hunted, raped, murdered and burned alive, we see that agencies are in disarray and are raging with each other. Mr. Chairman. I think it's really shocking. My first question to the Minister is: does she find this so shocking? How does the Minister explain that the UN does not appear to have a clear strategy with regard to Myanmar? Is there any chance, or is there a negative trend here, that the UN is taking less and less decisive action in protecting human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks for the question, too. In the first instance, of course, the Dutch Government deeply regrets the fact that we have come to this situation. It is good that Secretary-General Guterres has given the first commission of inquiry. It covers a period of eight years. I am also, unfortunately, not entirely surprised by the conclusions, because indeed the structure of the United Nations, fund programmes, the UN Security Council and headquarters of the various parts of the system often result in a bureaucratic battle. People often forget who they're talking about. So unfortunately this is not surprising, but very disappointing. The important thing is that we, as a Member State, insist at the UN that they actually do something about the findings of this report, which are serious. Work has already been done through the reform of the system, as has already been encouraged by Secretary-General Guterres. So it is important for all countries, especially those in crisis countries or countries covered by a so-called watching letter, that there is indeed a coherent political and human rights strategy. That is what we are trying to do, and we are seeing this in many countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is important to stress once again that this really needs urgency. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers she has given in the first term. I was also very curious about the role of the Netherlands in this. What we often see in debates of this kind is that we regret that I also heard the Minister say what happened. I do not think it should just be regretted when we see a million people fleeing home and fire, the death of tens of thousands of people, the rape of women, the burning of children. That's what's happening there right now. We see it not only at the United Nations; we also see it in the European Union. We in the European Union see that sanctions have been agreed against Myanmar's military summit, but we do not see that the entire army summit is on the EU sanction list. We see that the military summit in Myanmar is enriching itself with economic constructions, through trade relations with EU Member States. I ask the Minister whether she shares these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	I naturally share the concerns of suffering, unbearable suffering and human rights violations everywhere, including in Myanmar. The second is that the Netherlands has been active, even at the time of our membership of the UN-VR as a non-permanent member, in order to name these issues. The third point is that we are active in the Human Rights Council. Now we're not members, but we're naming it in all fora. Mr Blok also raised the issue of Myanmar with the Council in Brussels yesterday. We are very strict in the discussions in the Trade Council regarding the category everything but arms. We also want the Commission to use the trade instruments for preferential access to EU markets from Myanmar to put further pressure on the political structure to see change. We do this in all conversations and, of course, we also support through humanitarian resources based on vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. I love all of that. And I also appreciate the commitment of the Dutch government. We have had successive foreign ministers working to get this item on the agenda of the international community. There is a lot more going on now, because we can see that both the United Nations and the European Union cannot be allowed to fight to reduce the problem and to improve its impact. Actually, I don't see any other option than setting up an ultimum remedium. Is the Minister prepared to work internationally to secure a UN peacekeeping mission in Myanmar to ensure that the vulnerable group of people are protected there? Mr. Chairman. After all that has happened in recent years, after all the efforts we have seen from successive foreign ministers of the Netherlands, but also from the entire international community, I unfortunately see no other option but to deploy a peace mission to protect the people there. Is the Minister prepared to be an international defender of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think we need to take a step back, Madam President. The Netherlands is also constantly looking for a reference to the International Criminal Court, in accordance with the recommendations of the fact-finding mission report. That is what we consider most relevant. We are also looking for a broadening of the EU sanctions list, i.e. more people on that list, precisely from the military angle. I think that to actually get a peace mission in Myanmar one day is very unlikely in the current framework, just as we probably will not get a reference to the International Criminal Court on the basis of the composition of the Security Council. China and the Russian Federation will not agree to a resolution to draw up a peace mission. If the question then is whether we want to do so despite this, then I think that the situation in Myanmar needs to be looked at more closely first. We have to use all the instruments. A peace mission should normally accompany a peace process. You need to see if there's a peace to keep. In this case, we are still dealing with the Government of Aung San Suu Kyi. We're also putting pressure on the military. The framework of a peace mission in the traditional sense is therefore not at issue. What we are doing is using all the means to promote transition, to use economic resources where that can be helpful and to use them to combat impunity through the use of prosecution through the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	The Minister has DENK on her side to further explore sanctions to ensure that the practices currently taking place in Myanmar stop at some point. I regret to conclude that we have been working for years, that we have been putting pressure on both the military summit and the government for years, and that we are committed to international affairs, but unfortunately we see that the killing, raping and burning continues. I really think that the measure is now full and that we should go beyond what has been done so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. That was a conclusion and not a question to the Minister. Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	In the previous debate, we also discussed the use of all means with the new Secretary of State for Justice and Security. We also talked about the possibility of using mobile development aid to get rejected asylum seekers back, for example. Now we're talking about this situation. Can we use mobile development aid, for example, for infrastructure and that sort of thing, as far as Myanmar is concerned through the UN or the European Union, to exert pressure here too? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	First of all, as the Netherlands, we give humanitarian aid and only humanitarian aid. I do not have the details of EU aid, which is, of course, indirectly co-financed by the Netherlands. In principle, we do not want to punish the vulnerable people even more by immediately shutting down or squeezing off humanitarian aid. The speaker refers to an earlier conversation. That was about taking over and returning. This is a different situation. There is a humanitarian crisis and an acute violation of human rights. We're putting pressure on the military and on the government. We're not putting any extra pressure on those who are already victims. The framework is therefore not comparable. We are still committed to humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	It is indeed very good that this pressure is placed on the government and on the army. I ask the Minister whether it is also possible to focus the European Union's trade instruments on increasing this pressure. In my view, this can also be reversed by, for example, benefits already granted, preferential measures, in order to ensure that the government in Myanmar is finally going to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	We have done this before, also in the follow-up to my trip to Myanmar, at the end of last year. In the meantime, the Commission is in talks with the government. There appear to be some shifts, but we are indeed keeping our finger on the pulse, because we believe that these instruments are very effective, and certainly more effective than hitting the vulnerable by withdrawing a few million euros, which is precisely helping to keep them alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
