ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u1	We will continue with the draft law on strengthening criminal liability in the event of serious traffic offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u2	I do not yet see the first speaker, Mr Remco Dijkstra, in the Chamber. Maybe I've been a little too fast after all. Yes, there's Mr. Dijkstra. He's in the back of the room, so he was there. Welcome, Mr. Dijkstra. You may speak on behalf of the VVD in the handling of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The wish for this change of law, the bill tightening criminal liability serious traffic offences, stems from the previous cabinet period. It has started among various rulers. I myself hope that this bill can count on broad support. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that we would go harder on notorious traffic offenders. It was always a thorn in the eye that very dangerous driving behaviour was not sanctioned enough. I and my predecessors on this file have a number of poignant examples of cases where there was misunderstanding and, above all, social unrest, for example because a perpetrator who drove someone to death got away in court with conditional community service and sometimes no punishment at all. No punishment or community service at all: that feels incredibly unjust. Explain that to the next of kin, to the parents of a child. As a human, I can't. It is painful to hear the stories and it is difficult to put into words what it means to the victims and family. Recently, 7 June, there was a case in Den Bosch's court about an accident in Middelburg in which a father and his 6-year-old son were hit on the long traffic lane in Middelburg by a drunk driver who drove on the wrong side of the road, about twice as hard as was allowed, who had been drinking and who plunged the father and his son into years of misery. A laundry list of injuries listed the lawyer. It wasn't supposed to benefit. The damage is permanent damage for both, for father and son. And yet, the convict appealed. The court found recklessness unproven and then gave the unsub a lower sentence. I don't have words for that. And then there was a repetition, because the driver had already been convicted of driving under the influence. Two lives ruined! With such weak sentences, the preventive effect is not helpful in reducing the number of victims. The legal explanation is therefore not in line with what normal people mean, what you and I, President-in-Office, mean by'recklessness'. The aim of this legislative proposal is to correct that gap by legally broadening and underpinning the scope of the concept of "recklessness', and this is necessary by making some adjustments to the Road Traffic Act and by ensuring that dangerous and incorrect driving behaviour, even without consequences, can still be punishable. By making sure common sense prevails, you'd think. Mr. Chairman. Although the concept of "recklessness" was already introduced in 2003 with the aim of the legislator to allow adequate punishment, that objective has not been achieved. The reason: the Supreme Court ruled that if all three criteria are not met, only ordinary guilt can be proven. According to the Supreme Court, there had to be very careless driving behaviour in which deliberately and with serious consequences unacceptable risks have been taken. That's a lot and that was hard to get by. The VVD has always worked hard in recent election programmes to punish road traffic offences more severely. It feels very unfair when a motorist, for example, causes a fatal or serious accident due to distraction from a mobile phone he is working on, but you do not get the burden of proof around. That's frustrating, and it has to be different. When you talk to parents of deceased children, you immediately realize why. It is therefore good that the concept of'recklessness' should be extended. The increase in the maximum penalty is also welcome, because you want to be able to tackle those notorious offenders harder. And even if someone does it again. It exists: the recidivist. Ultimately, this law should lead to more road safety and actual convictions. At the request of the VVD, several investigative powers have already been added in the letter of amendment, and that is good. Think, for example, of holding on and being able to hold on more easily and also of using camera images by the police. This can also help you to find the person who did this earlier, for example, when driving after a serious accident, with serious consequences. It is nice that it was included in this change instead of waiting. That's a win. I would like to ask the Minister if he is convinced that this law will lead to more and real convictions. The VVD also wonders whether there is enough capacity within the police to enforce recklessness properly. And are we actually gonna do that? Recklessness is of course not always in an accident, sometimes it is also just a truck driver who drives wild and does not pay attention. And before you know it, there's been damage to people or to vehicles, especially when it comes to foreign trucks, because they're usually registered elsewhere. So how do we get convictions or just a stand-alone solution? When I talk about license plates, for example, you sometimes have a truck from Ukraine and a trailer from Poland. That mix is complicated. How are we going to link these things up so that we can at least deal with these things in freight traffic? Finally, ignoring a red cross on the road. That's also really a crime that belongs in criminal law these days. Thanks to my predecessor who has worked hard to do so. So a higher sentence is also possible there. It falls into a new category that we have created with each other: Article 5a, very dangerous driving without consequences. Fortunately, the Minister shares the urgency, as demonstrated by the answer to the questions put by myself and Van Wijngaarden. We have already discussed the issue of the extraordinary investigative officers this afternoon. They were recently extended from 50 to 100. That is also a good development. Increasing the chance of getting caught, for example, by ignoring a red cross is essential for the safety of our people working on the road every day. They must be protected from traffic cocksuckers. The fact that the people of Rijkswaterstaat get cameras is good in itself, but it is strange that we do not do that with extraordinary investigators. I do understand the whole balance that the Minister has outlined, but the arguments for not doing so because of the risk of inciting aggression do go weird with the VVD. In my opinion, hospitality on the road can go hand in hand with a tool to protect yourself. And we must never give way to aggression. I would ask the Minister to think again about this, and certainly not to rule out in the future that, if it is needed and if it is necessary, she can still have that security and that means. For the people who drive by: if you don't want any harm, you have nothing to fear. The VVD intends to agree to the present proposal and looks forward to the contributions of other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you. Mr Grothuizen has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About ten years ago, as a business officer, I was allowed to do a rather heavy case. Two men had deliberately caused a collision on an unclear T-split, in which the driver was warned by the second man, who was on the lookout, so that the driver knew at what time he had to drive on the road to make it actually come to that collision. After a number of unsuccessful attempts, a collision followed. In addition, tragically, the driver of the other car was killed. I prosecuted those men for murder at the time. The Supreme Court finally upheld that conviction. The case is mentioned in the note following the report and is also addressed in the study of the WODC underlying this bill. It was a very sad, very intense case that always stayed with me. That case was very special in many respects, but unfortunately it is not serious traffic issues. Every year there are a lot of road accidents, often with very serious consequences. There's a lot of things going on. From extreme driving behaviour that miraculously does not lead to serious injuries or death, to a small moment of inattention that does have enormous consequences. That is something that I think every traffic participant will recognize: that you are not paying attention and overlooking something. Often it ends well, but unfortunately not on our busy roads either. Traffic criminal law must try to comprehend this huge variation in general rules, and that is not easy. I must confess, therefore, that I sometimes struggle with this bill on a number of points. Not with the purpose behind it I share it but with the effect. I have a number of questions about this later. This bill actually does three things. It increases the penalty limits for a number of traffic offences, such as driving under the influence, driving on after a hit-and-run and driving without a driver's license. I have no questions or comments on this. As far as I am concerned, it is good to broaden these penalty limits and to emphasise that this kind of traffic behaviour is unacceptable. It gives the judge more room to impose an appropriate sanction. A second part of the bill is concerned with very dangerous driving behaviour, which by chance has remained without consequences. In the current situation, there is indeed a gap between the simple violation of Article 5 and the crime of Article 6. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, it is good to fill that penalty hole. My group supports the idea of tackling this very dangerous traffic behaviour harder. We must act firmly against people who risk the health or even the lives of others with bizarre traffic behaviour. A third key element of the bill is recklessness. Mr Dijkstra also spoke about this. Indeed, the case law of the Supreme Court gives a very restrictive interpretation of that concept. As a result, all kinds of traffic behaviour that most people simply regard as reckless is not covered by the legal concept of'reckless'. That is not the case, and that indeed leads to a great deal of social incomprehension. My group therefore supports the idea of broadening the scope of that concept. But still, my struggle. Technically, this is quite complex matter. Essentially, the Minister solves both the issue of the penalty hole and that of recklessness with the introduction of Article 5a. That article places more severe penalties on dangerous behaviour, but at the same time also gives substance to the concept of'recklessness'. Is the bill really going to solve the problems that have been identified? Legal practice is quite critical of the bill. Those are the people who have to work with it eventually. First of all, it concerns the concept of 'design'. In fact, the proposed Article 5a has been made a criminal offence in order to deliberately behave in such a way that traffic rules are violated if there is a danger of life or serious injury to a person. But how do you prove it? I agree with the Minister when he says that when you hold a phone or in the case of bumper life you can usually derive that directly from that behavior. But does that also apply to catching up or driving by red when no one is around, or if someone says that he simply didn't see the speed signs, something that happened to us all? Does this mean that there is a set-up? I think this means a lot to the evidence that needs to be provided. I think Mr Dijkstra referred to that as well. It is not just about the actual conduct that should be well documented, but also about the circumstances in which that conduct took place. This brings with it the necessary work for the investigation services. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for further clarification on this point. How does he see proof of the intent of behaviour that can also be simply committed by carelessness? And is the police prepared for that? Is she prepared to investigate this properly and to record it in a report as well? Otherwise, I think it's just a paper reality. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The list of Article 5a is not exhaustive and I think that is sensible. That gives the practice the opportunity to respond to that great variation. But it is good to give some direction to that practice. In the letter of amendment, which we have received, the Minister comes with an adaptation of Article 5a (m. Excuse for technology). There he replaces the phrase 'like behaviour' with the phrase 'traffic rules of similar importance', but I do not know if that will become clearer immediately. Can the Minister give criteria, or at least give examples of traffic rules of similar importance, on the basis of which the practice and, above all, ultimately the court can determine whether such rules exist? I would also like an explanation from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then the recklessness. The legislative proposal stipulates that in any event recklessness is involved if the conduct can also be regarded as an infringement of Article 5a. That's the link between both elements. Since Article 175 of the Road Traffic Act is a criminal offence, there is a certain mix of intent and guilt. I think that is rather complicated and that complexity is increased in the explanatory statement. On page 14, the Minister writes that very dangerous driving behaviour, which fulfills the description of the crime in Article 5a, can lead to recklessness. However, the law states that in these cases there is in any case recklessness. Perhaps that is a slip of the pen and the Minister meant that there may be an infringement of Article 6, in conjunction with 175, if the description of the crime of 5a is fulfilled, but that is not always the case, because there are also additional conditions. That is that double causality, but very clearly I have not, quite frankly, become. I would also like an explanation from the Minister on this point. Finally, Mr President. I read an article by Professor Vellinga and he writes that in the case of serious speeding offences, no priority is given, dangerous catch-up or bumper life, the maximum penalty by amending Article 175, third paragraph, is actually reduced by this bill. I just checked that out, and I think the guy's got a point. I would like the Minister to explain this point, because I do not think that was the intention. But maybe I have it, but then I find myself in good company, misunderstood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you. Mr Van Dam is now speaking on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an important legislative proposal, important because we are regularly faced with dramatic traffic accidents that seem to be subject to relatively limited penalties. We all know the stories of young families, a part of a family, a father and a child who are being ravaged out of life by someone who is drunk behind the wheel, a driver who sits around, someone who drives too fast, catching up dangerously or a combination of those things. It could happen to all of us. I've been to a memorial meeting of the Vereniging Vereniging Victims myself. You then sit in such a room with all empty chairs and then it comes frightfully close to you that you just drove there and that fortunately you arrived there safely. The CDA Group sincerely hopes that this proposal will change in particular those cases where something serious has happened, but where the judge did not have the opportunity to take appropriate action. Some drivers behave in such a way that you can almost speak of deliberately causing traffic cases, in the sense of conditional design, taking the significant chance that it goes wrong. You may honestly know that I have seriously considered bringing forward an amendment to include Article 6a in the Article 6a law, which is a deliberate offence when it comes to causing road accidents. But also in view of the Minister's answer to the questions, I think it is wise to examine these proposals in practice first and see if the interpretation of the concept of'recklessness', as it is now foreseen, will give the judge more grip. We are keen to see whether the gaps that are now being experienced are actually being filled by this law, and we are therefore pleased with the evaluation clause. I would like to make a few comments of a legislative nature. With this proposal, the Minister uses Article 175 of the Road Traffic Act as a means of speeding up bumper life and speeding up road traffic. It is no longer a matter of increasing the penalty. They are transferred to the new Article 5a and thus form a kind of component of the concept of'recklessness'. It is not exhaustive, but we raised the question whether, for example, driving outside prescribed rest periods, such as truck drivers, must comply with the Rest and Driving Time Act, could also be covered. How restrictive or non-limitative does the Minister see that? I think I can agree with Mr Groothuizen's questions as to whether there can be a little more insight into similar behaviours. Mr. Chairman. Driving under the influence or refusing a bladder test remains as a penalty aggravating circumstance in Article 175. This can give the impression that driving under the influence, unlike for example the bumper life, is not part of'recklessness', while it can be extremely reckless when people with a piece in their collar sit behind the wheel. For the sake of clarity, I have tabled an amendment on this point which I believe speaks for itself. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this. The start of this bill lies in the justified dissatisfaction of survivors and victims of collisions with how the perpetrators are tried. On the one hand, because the concept of'recklessness' had too many barriers, and on the other hand because the penalty is limited. The latter resolves the Minister by applying the recidivism more explicitly to the Road Traffic Act. If I calculate it correctly, then the maximum penalty that stands at recklessly causing a deadly traffic accident under the influence, with relapsed within five years, is 12 years. This means that the judge is bound by a maximum sentence of 12 years, including in cases where there are multiple deaths to be regretted. Then we are talking about'recklessness', the heaviest form of guilt, which gets set up. All in all, we as a group think that twelve years is not really enough to express the fact that these are very special cases. That is why I also come up with an amendment which does not refer to a doubling of alcohol consumption, but to the application of 100% storage. That amendment goes without saying. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Finally, Mr President. Each year, the Dutch Association of Traffic Victims publishes a black book, the Black Book of Road Victims. It has also recently reappeared over the year 2018, the appendix. Dramatic stories about how you turn from one moment to another from a healthy, active human being into a severely disabled person, drawn for life. It could happen to all of us. In 2018, 678 deaths occurred in the Netherlands, 10% more than in the previous year, not to mention the tens of thousands injured and severely injured. The black book shows how important it is for the police and the judiciary to do their job properly. For the purposes of dealing with damage in civil law alone, it is essential that traces are properly documented, that witnesses are heard quickly and properly and that a trial is conducted quickly. However, practice shows a different picture here. The capacity and quality of police investigations of this kind is limited, the prosecution seems overloaded and it often takes a very long time for a case to come to trial. That is not because all kinds of actions have to be carried out, but because apparently other matters are a priority. It is not for nothing that the criminal justice chain has designated the elimination of serious collisions as one of the six or seven priorities, but for the time being I see little improvement in this, not even in response to the Minister's answers to questions in the context of the closure of the year. I myself am also approached by victims and next of kin about concrete matters, and then I hear their deepest and desperate stories. What's the Minister doing about this? Isn't it time for a chain-wide standard on how to deal with these issues, such as the Kalsbeek standard on juvenile criminal law? Of these, one year more, the other year is less, but generally a blessing in terms of lead times. You can also see that in the chain people are going to think together about how to achieve good results. Surely it can't be that victims of traffic accidents are also victims of our criminal justice system? These are people who deserve premium treatment, and that is absolutely not the case now. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u8	There is an interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u9	I think the latter is a good proposal. It sounds good. The people who have already suffered so much should, of course, also receive a smooth treatment, at least the matter that concerns them. So I understand that proposal, but I do have a question about it. Mr Van Dam himself said that we are asking a lot from the police. The state's attorney's office is overloaded, and of course that's also playing in the courts. We know that. If we are to agree a standard now, what does Mr Van Dam think that means? Is it a capacity issue, or do these cases take precedence over other cases? Can Mr Van Dam explain in detail what the consequences will be if you agree to a strict lead time and we are, hopefully, going to stick to it in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u10	The Kalsbeek standard is the standard that 80% of cases must be dealt with within a certain time limit. Of course, you always have things that are very complicated or heavy and you can explain why it takes so long. So I'm not in favour of a standard that's gonna magnify everything. A second point is that it is also my own experience that sometimes things are already ready, but just waiting for something and need attention. It's always a matter of priorities. You always have to say, this robbery or this hit-and-run, are we going to court with that? We're talking about hit-and-run. Those are often cases where suspects aren't trapped. If someone is stuck, all kinds of deadlines will run and everything will have to be done. These people, their victims, are structurally pulling at the shortest end of the rope. And in addition, if you want to have a civil court hearing, if you want to have your damage compensated by the insurance company of the offender's car, then those damages are often enormous, which insurance company says: we wait for the criminal judgment and then we get to work. So that's a kind of double victimization for these people. Considering all this, I fully understand what you are throwing up, because this is at the expense of something else. But I think that, as we stand here with each other, we should also partly let it go at the expense of something else. This is real victim crime that we need to be aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u11	Again and for the record, I really agree with Mr Van Dam. However, I would like to hear from the Minister what is needed to make this proposal by Mr Van Dam possible and to realise it and what its consequences are, also for other things that we consider to be very important. But once again, no misunderstanding: I actually support the CDA's plea on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you for your input, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill should put an end to the penalty gap between someone who makes victims of very dangerous driving behaviour and someone who does not harm anyone with the same dangerous behavior by stupid coincidence. Because if you are driving so dangerously that you can make victims, it must of course be dealt with hard. That is not the case now, and with this law it is a bit resolved. The PVV is in favour of measures that promote road safety. Unfortunately, the number of road deaths is rising and rising. It hasn't been this high in years. It was also said that 678 deaths occurred in traffic in 2018. That's a terrible figure of nature. One of those 678 victims is 8-year-old Milan. He was killed and his brother suffered brain damage because the suspect, B., was driving a bottle of vodka hard-ass car. He drove 60 miles an hour too fast. The Minister's attempts to close the penalty hole are a step in the right direction, but the PVV believes that someone who drives recklessly and causes an accident should be severely punished. The weak penalties that are now often imposed on dead drivers are indigestible for many survivors. Take Faisal D., for example, who in 2016 killed a couple in Rijen because he drove way too fast. He also drove on after the fatal accident. Besides, he was a recidivist. He then received only community service and 108 days in prison. He's already out there, and he might be driving around freely. He's a ticking time bomb on the road, which only takes three months to go to jail. The next of kin got a life sentence. In cases like this, especially when it comes to recidivists, only long prison sentences are in order. Does the Minister agree with the PVV and, if so, when can we look at his bill to increase that penalty? Is the Minister prepared to send these dangerous lunatics on the road to prison for at least eight years? Does the Minister agree with the PVV that community service is not appropriate in the event of accidents caused by reckless driving and resulting in serious physical injury or death? Can the Minister promise that from now on the prosecution will no longer require community service if reckless driving has caused an injury accident? Some of the measures proposed by the Minister today can count on the support of the PVV. For example, the PVV welcomes the increase in penalties for driving under the influence, driving after an accident and driving without a valid driving licence. All of these crimes had a maximum of three months in prison, and it's now up to a year in prison. Let's make sure the minister actually gets these criminals. The PVV also welcomes the fact that a person who drives very dangerously, but doesn't cause injury by stupid coincidence, can also be punished more severely. I would like to hear some clarification on the following. If someone drives a car and holds his phone, drives too fast, runs a red light or ghost drives, and gets caught by the police, he gets a financial fine, not a staff magazine. What's that under the new law? Is someone who drives properly, but for example holds the mobile phone, but does not cause an accident? And can that person get two years in jail? I like to hear that. And I have one more question. Driving under the influence of alcohol or other narcotics goes from three months to a maximum of one year. My question to the Minister is: is a year's imprisonment really enough terrifying? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Nispen has the floor. He speaks on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Many of the speakers before me have already mentioned the horrible suffering that people experience from injuries and deaths of loved ones due to serious traffic offences. This week I received an e-mail about this, as we often do. "'With great disappointment, the Vereniging Traffic Victims took note of the verdict concerning the very serious collision in Zeeland in which a man and his son were seriously injured and sustained permanent injury and brain damage. We consider the punishment to be out of proportion to the misery that has been caused. This was a traffic crime. Too fast and drunk driving and the driver had already been convicted of driving under the influence, so there has also been a recurrence. Because of the interpretation of the case law, this director could not be condemned for recklessness."' Mr. Chairman. This discontent, this social outrage, is well known, as previous speakers have said. In fact, as I understand from the explanatory statement, that is also the reason for this legislative proposal. Although I often warn, here too, that not all solutions in criminal law need to be sought, I support these proposals. I will therefore also be fairly brief today, because we are essentially in agreement with this proposal. But, of course, the punishment of road traffic offences is by definition very complicated for prosecutors and judges. Is there a setup? Is there guilt? Are there serious consequences of this error or are there no serious consequences, despite particularly dangerous driving behaviour? There are all kinds of cases imaginable. A brief moment of inattention can have great consequences and you do not want a small mistake in traffic to always lead to a particularly severe punishment. On the other hand, however, you do not want to see very dangerous driving behaviour which, with more luck than wisdom, does not result in victims being punished properly. Having said that, this bill increases the possibility for the judge to impose appropriate penalties for very different situations. It is good that the large difference between the penalty limit for very dangerous driving with and without consequences is removed. It also becomes clearer when there may be recklessness. In my opinion, this is much better connected to what is considered to be'reckless' in the normal use of speech. So that's good. I had to ask why the taking of alcohol and drugs is not included in the list of 5a. That is why I also sympathise with the amendment on item No. 8 by Mr Van Dam. The penalty limits for driving under the influence and driving on after an accident are higher. That seems to us to be a good proposal, as it will give the courts more opportunities to impose appropriate penalties. We raised many questions about these proposals in the written preparation, but they were largely answered to the satisfaction of our group. I was struck by the fact that the Minister mentioned in the note on the report the possibility of the judge declaring the disqualification of driving power immediately enforceable. This was mentioned earlier by the Minister in his letter of 7 March 2018. But, according to the Minister, that requires a change of law. But we're discussing a legislative change here. Why was it chosen not to include this point of the immediate declaration of enforceability of driving disqualification? I'd like to ask that question here. Is that so far-reaching? Have the opinions not yet been finalised? I would like to hear from the Minister what is the reason for that. Finally. I told you, you're not just promoting road safety by tightening criminal law. The Minister will agree with us. We have previously explicitly called for attention to be paid to increasing the chances of getting caught. The number of specialised police officers and prosecutors must at least be kept up to date, the aforementioned investigatory report also states. My group is not very satisfied with this police capacity in general. There has been far too much cutting back on the police in recent years and no account has been taken of the expected outflow of agents. But that is, in fact, a different debate. However, I would like to mention that here. Again, you can increase the punishments and we will do that today. My group supports that. But that doesn't mean we're gonna catch the guys who did it. There is little preventative effect if there is no or little control over dangerous driving behaviour, if the chance of getting caught is low. This is necessary if road safety is to be truly promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u17	We need the first term from the government. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u18	Mr. Chairman. I'll make you a confession. Until now, it has always been the case that I had written in my introductory lyrics as the first or second sentence: we are talking today about an important legislative proposal. It's my fault I write that down again. I would like to emphasise its importance, but of course it cannot be the case that all legislative proposals are aligned. So let me change the subject of this bill. Mr. Chairman. We need this bill not only to have a better distribution of justice in daily traffic, it is very nicely solemnly said, but also simply to have the right fee, the right punishment for serious misconduct in traffic. Because that's what it's about in the end. The cabinet believes that this type of proposal is really necessary in the context of the promotion of road safety. But we need this proposal not only for that; we also need it to give victims and relatives their fair share of justice and a sense of justice, as I said. Still, it's still terrible if you're a victim of a serious traffic accident, or if you're next of kin to someone who died in a serious traffic accident. It is then all the more bitter and terrible if it turns out that this is actually due to unacceptable dangerous behaviour on the part of another person. The aim of this bill is to promote road safety, but also to give the courts more opportunities to impose a penalty that fits the diversity that characterises the criminal justice system. So many words for introduction. Mr. Chairman. I will now answer the various questions raised by the spokesmen in categories. I do that by subject. I'll start with the new Article 5a. Dangerous and also very dangerous driving behaviour, which has remained without consequences, can only be punished under current legislation if an offence involving two months' detention is committed in relation to Article 5 of the Road Traffic Act, while a driver who has been so unhappy to cause a serious traffic accident by being significantly careless is subject to a severe penalty. There's no justification for that difference in punishment. Against that background, but also against the background that there was not enough appropriate punishment for the kind of behaviour that is now described in Article 5a, I introduced that new Article 5a, or I would like to introduce it. That article reflects the fact that irresponsible driving behaviour in traffic which is likely to cause serious dangers to fellow road users is heavily charged. The article identifies behaviours which, by their nature and seriousness, may, in the specific case, constitute a serious violation of the traffic rules. For example, it's about dangerous catching up, bumper adhesives, speeding and also very topically ignoring a red cross or red light. But also taps behind the wheel while driving are among those behaviors. The same applies to driving against the direction of travel. When I talk about red crosses, you're thinking about actuality. The police have already had to give several different people heavy fines, because they just went back in the context of a traffic jam over a lane, or just turned around and went forward in the wrong direction. If there is a deliberate and serious violation of the traffic rules which make it possible to avoid serious dangers for others, this behaviour as a crime can be punished by two years in prison. For example, this new article performs a bridge function between the relatively minor violation of Article 5 Road Traffic Act and the crime of Article 6: an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I will deal immediately with the questions raised by a number of your Members on this subject. Mr Groothuizen indicated that he was struggling with a few aspects of this Article 5a. I would like to give him the explanation he asked for. First of all, the detection of traffic behaviour which could lead to a conviction for Article 5a. These are behaviours, often a series of serious traffic offences, which are noted because of the danger posed to other road users. For example, other road users need to move or jump aside. Recording will be necessary, whether or not accompanied by photographs, camera images, measurement results or witness statements. In the minutes, not only the conduct, but also the sequence or regularity of such conduct and the circumstances on the spot will have to be recorded at that time and the danger that this might have been for one or more others. The driver shall be maintained and heard as far as possible. In any event, all this information gives reasonable presumption of intent and gives rise to the transmission of the minutes to the Public Prosecutor. A defence which was not intended to infringe the traffic rule because it was merely an inattention or an accident, will then have to be examined further by the Public Prosecutor or by the judge, as will the finding of other offences. Catching up or driving through red light when there is no one around............................................................................................................................................................................................ If no one's around, there won't be any danger for anyone else. The police are equally able to investigate such an incident as other incidents on the street or for my part in a café. If the police do not themselves detect the dangerous driving behaviour, investigations can be carried out on the basis of testimonies or camera footage. If there has been a serious accident, extensive investigation is still being carried out, which often shows that serious traffic offences preceded the accident. Mr Groothuizen also referred to the traffic rules of similar importance proposed by letter of amendment. The modified wording of the rules of similar importance aims to express the infringement of traffic rules which may result in a similar serious level of infringement as the conduct listed under points (a) to (l). An example can be to drive a sidewalk or a bicycle path, to reverse in a dangerous way or to reverse in a dangerous way. The aim of the non-limitative list is precisely to allow traffic offences which we do not currently envisage to be included in the assessment of dangerous driving behaviour covered by 5a. I will come back to Mr Groothuizen's points about Professor Vellinga, for example, but I will now move on to 5a. As exhaustive as the list of Article 5a is, Mr Van Dam also asked. Can driving be covered by prescribed rest periods? Driving by lorry drivers who do not comply with the prescribed rest periods may contribute to the fulfilment of Article 5a. If that circumstance shows traffic behaviour which deliberately and seriously infringes the traffic rules and therefore threatens to cause death to others, it is certainly important to determine whether there is an infringement of Article 5a, despite the fact that that conduct may not have been specifically included in Article 5a. It is like driving under influence a circumstance that weighs when determining whether the offence description is fulfilled. Soon I will come to Mr van Dam's amendment concerning the separate appointment of driving under the influence. Mr. Chairman. The bill provides guidance on the definition of "recklessness" in the Road Traffic Act 1994. The judge is given more guidance by the legislator in assessing the degree of blame for a traffic accident with serious consequences. This is achieved by the listing of conduct in Article 5a and the linking of that criminalisation with the existing concept of "recklessness" in Article 175. My expectation is that the existing concept of "recklessness" will therefore be extended in line with the original intentions of the legislator. Mr Dijkstra rightly points out as a shortcoming that too few cases of recklessness are condemned because of the rigorous test carried out by the Supreme Court. Before there's any misunderstanding about it, we shouldn't blame the Supreme Court. As a joint legislator, we say that this does not do justice to the desire to apply justice properly in society. Mr Dijkstra also asked me whether I am convinced that this law will lead to more condemnations. As with any criminal act, it is also important to establish the degree of culpability of the act when assessing a fatal accident. On the basis of the serious effect in itself, it cannot be concluded that someone has acted in such a way that a severe punishment is appropriate. Setting up the cause of death is simply often impossible to determine in those situations. The case of those two men at that crossroads, which Mr Groothuizen mentioned, does indeed give me the picture of the exceptional situation that is intended to show. However, the time of an accident often precedes behaviors that were intentional, for example when someone drives too fast at dangerous crossings without taking into account other road users, or when the person ignores a red light, keeps bumpers or holds an electronic device. Such deliberate behaviour may be punished as a crime by this bill, if it has been dangerous for another person. The criminalisation of reckless driving in draft Article 5a provides for this. Moreover, by linking that provision to Article 6, the legislative proposal makes it possible to colour the blame for an accident if reckless driving has led to a serious result. Mr Dijkstra also rightly spoke about the suffering of victims and relatives. Like many people in society, they often find the qualification of the crime unfair and the level of punishment too low. In this context, it is important that the legislative proposal is also in line with the recommendations of the research carried out by the University of Groningen and Intervict. Mr Groothuizen asked about the interpretation of the concept of recklessness by Article 5a. For a conviction of death or injury due to guilt, Article 6 requires that what is called double causality, namely that someone is responsible for a traffic accident and that another person is killed or injured. If that is established, then the degree of blame for that accident will be addressed. It may consist of light debt, which is the significantly imprudent act I mentioned in my introduction or recklessness. For the answer to the question of recklessness, the legislative proposal aims to provide an additional basis. The law lays down that recklessness can in any case be assumed in case the description of the offence in Article 5a is fulfilled. For example, the concept of recklessness in the criminalisation of the culpoze crime of Article 6 is also influenced by the intent on serious violation of traffic rules. That is not to say that Article 5a is the exclusive definition of recklessness. Other behaviours, facts and circumstances may also lead to the assumption of guilt in the sense of recklessness. This follows from the fact that the concept also appears as a criminal aggravating element in criminal descriptions in the Code of Criminal Law. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Grothuizen's interesting question. The other questions were equally interesting, ex aequo, but I come to the question about Professor Vellinga, who claims that the penalty increase in Article 6 of the Road Traffic Act expires when the maximum speed is exceeded, bumper life is not given priority or dangerous catch-up. Indeed, in the event of death or serious bodily injury due to fault caused by, in short, exceeding the maximum speed or bumper adhesives, but it also applies to the other behaviours, which are due to lapse. These behaviours are all included in the proposed Article 5a and may lead to reckless driving as referred to in Article 5a. It is therefore more obvious to include these behaviours in Article 5a, because I have just mentioned this point, which leads to a serious separation of traffic rules and thus contributes to the finding of reckless driving behaviour. If reckless driving has been followed by a serious accident, then blame for the accident can also be established in the form of recklessness. Moreover, the grounds for increased penalties in Article 175 (3) continue to apply in full if the cause of a serious traffic accident was under the influence of the person responsible. That circumstance still justifies the further increase in the penalty to be imposed for Article 6. With this kind of fact, we are committed to making it not so much an increase in penalties as an accident, but a form of reckless driving. That's how Article 5a qualifies it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u19	An interruption by Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u20	More of a clarifying question to understand. I understand the Minister says, "Vellinga's right." For example, if there is death due to reckless driving plus bumper adhesives, then under the current legal system it is up to nine years. In the new situation bumper adhesives are always reckless, but it is up to six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u21	Yeah, the bumper life itself. Because at the moment when there is death or serious bodily injury caused by guilt, there is another point. Well, at least we're talking about reckless driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u22	No, that's not right. I think it's going to be six years when the bumper life has a deadly effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u23	Yes, Mr Grothuizen is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u24	It may be a theoretical exercise, but in principle we potentially go in such a nine-year case to six years. That is the point Mr Vellinga is making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u25	Yes, because we actually say that we have brought it into the house earlier, if I may put it that way, with this result. That is exactly what I want to do with this bill: the construction is equal. A severe punishment, of course, remains to a large extent. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a large number of different issues that I answer on the basis of the questions. Mr Dijkstra asked whether there was sufficient capacity within the police to enforce recklessness properly. I said it again this afternoon at another meeting in this building, at an AO: the police's commitment is primarily determined by the authority: the Public Prosecutor, the Mayor and the Chief Constable. I have looked into what I can do within my ability to increase the number of standing positions. In order to ensure that road safety is previously the subject of conversation in the triangle, the public prosecutor has started a pilot to ask for more attention to be paid to traffic enforcement in the arrondissementsparkets. There is also an active commitment to strengthening regional and local cooperation in the field of road safety. The police have launched an internal route to boost active enforcement in the public domain. Then we are talking about maintaining the so-called small standard, which in any case includes light and therefore certainly heavier traffic offences, although these are rather large standards. This, by the way, fits in with Mr. Dijkstra now hears me saying a bit the same lines as this afternoon's movement made by the police police force in 2016 to strengthen traffic enforcement as part of the regular enforcement task, which makes it more focused on more visible enforcement through standing posture. The number of standing positions has been growing steadily since 2015, and I am committed to this continuing. Then the foreign trucks. Mr Dijkstra asked how we got a conviction. Is standing up the solution? Can we do more with registrations than we do now? If there is damage or injury, the police will, in principle, come to the scene and in that case the driver will be notified and the report will be made. In case the police arrive on the scene and the police report is made, the driver may also be prosecuted by the prosecution, even if the vehicle is known elsewhere. If there is an accident and there is no on-the-spot record, the legislative proposal amending Article 67 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of withholding and withholding suspects for investigation. Furthermore, foreign registration marks can be requested between EU Member States through EUCARIS and from non-EU Member States through legal aid applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you very much for that reply from the Minister. Previously, the Minister also gave an example of the trucks. A truck's big. Is there any difference between a passenger car and a truck? I don't suppose so. Because a truck is large, it can happen that it grazes someone and that an accident results from it but that the driver has not noticed it, with a foreign license plate, and later can still be caught somewhere in a parking lot, without standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u27	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the request to look at the pilot on enforcement with cameras on ignoring a red cross on Rijkswaterstaat's cars. That's what we discussed this afternoon. I have also indicated that the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State does not want that for security reasons for the enforcement inspectors, because they are not equipped to do so in their work. I respect that consideration of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I respect it, because those inspectors are under her responsibility. Then there is Mr Van Dam's question about the lead times. I aim to send a letter to the Chamber at the end of June, before the Final Act of 27 June, which deals with the length of time for serious traffic offences, among other things. Part of the approach is a professional standard for these lead times. Mr Markuszower asked me whether I agree that community service is not appropriate after reckless traffic offences. In the event of a serious accident involving reckless driving, community service is not the first reason, I agree with Mr Markuszower. However, even in our legal system, a substantial community service may be appropriate if the circumstances of the particular case so require. It is therefore a matter of casuistic assessments and these are for the Dutch judiciary and not for me, of course. I trust the Dutch judiciary in this respect, I must stress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u28	I am not going to go into that last remark. The question of community service is now before us. My question is not even about the judiciary, but whether the Minister can undertake to instruct the prosecutor, who is in charge of the minister, to stop demanding community service if there are accidents involving serious physical injury or death and this is caused by reckless driving. Then the minister can instruct the prosecution not to demand community service anymore, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u29	What Mr Markuszower means is a so-called indication. This is something that the Minister for Justice and Security really does in very exceptional situations. If I am, I will discuss it with the House of Representatives first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u30	I'm not talking about that clue. I am talking about the directive currently in force by the Public Prosecutor when it comes to drawing up penalties. That's not the same as a clue, is it? I believe that there is an indication when the Minister says that he and that person should be prosecuted. I am talking about the case where a suspect has driven recklessly and that driving has led to serious injury or even death. Then the minister can say to the prosecutor: hey, OM, in those cases, don't ask for community service anymore, but always a prison sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u31	That's a clue. I will always refer that to your Chamber first, because I believe, and I think many with me, that the Public Prosecutor's Office as an organisation is my responsibility. Last week, for example, I sent you the action plan following the Fokkens report. That's what we're gonna talk to each other about, and then you can call me to account for the functioning of the public prosecutor's office as an organisation. However, its legal function is independent in the performance of the public prosecutor's duties on the basis of the laws and regulations in force. As I have said, only in exceptional situations should I say something about this or give a clue. I have said many times in this Chamber that I do not. Moreover, I believe that my predecessors have said the same thing, but I am at least saying that I will not do so after I have submitted it to your Chamber, because I would find that very unfortunate in the context of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u32	Someone killed someone else in an accident due to reckless driving or caused serious bodily harm, which is known to the police. Surely the Minister can now openly say in this Chamber that he also thinks that this is no longer appropriate for community service?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u33	Finally, the Minister, because this is the third question in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u34	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This bill does not provide for that. There's a reason. That is because this bill places the dangerous, reckless driving behaviour in a more stringent way in the sphere of criminal law. I'm just saying something abstract. There is no such thing as a ban on the imposition of community service in general. But I have said that I agree with Mr Markuszower: if you have caused a serious accident involving reckless driving, I do not think that community service is the first reason. But whether or not that happens in a particular situation, or to what extent, as Mr Markuszower called it, in which part of it happened, it really is up to the sitting and, prior to that, to the standing magistrate. We should not interfere in that, because then we will be standing here before we know how to discuss cases on a daily basis. And that seems to me to be a waste of positive energy. Mr. Chairman. There is another question from Mr Markuszower. He said, shouldn't people in situations like this go to jail for at least eight years? Let me stress that the serious traffic offences are indeed being dealt with criminally firmly with high penalties. This is reflected in this bill by Mr Markuszower, and I hope that there will be a great deal of support for this bill in your Chamber. Is anyone, that early Mr Markuszower, under the new law punishable and can he get jail time if he drives properly, causes no accident, but takes his cell phone or drives through red light? That's a lot of times, because, yeah, you go through that and that's it. Yes, also a loose behavior such as holding a mobile phone behind the wheel or driving through red light is a criminal act that is punished under the Administrative Enforcement Act. Those few behaviours do not result in the reckless driving behaviour that is punishable as a crime. There are countless traffic regulations. Many of them, at least the violation of them, can be dangerous. And there can be prosecution on the basis of the general hazard assessment of Article 5 of the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u35	Just for my understanding, but also for the people who might be watching at home. Let me take an example. I'm driving and I'm holding my cell phone. If I get caught by the police now, I'm gonna get a hell of a fine from my head of about $300, $400. I think that is based on the so-called 'wet-mulder'. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it. My question is: is that going to change? Let me take another example. We as Chamber and later the First Chamber will pass this law. I'm still driving like I just drove. I'm getting caught by that same cop again. Then what's my punishment? Do I still get that fine? I drove along nicely, but I had that cell phone in my hand. So I used to get €350 fine. Will I be treated as if I'd drank three beers, which means driving under the influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u36	Well, I just read it out: it could be Article 5, but in principle it could also be a criminal act sanctioned under the Mulder Act. But, of course, you must behave in such a way that traffic rules are seriously violated and there is a danger or danger of serious injury to another person. Then comes the whole line of article 5a. So, yes, if you, let's say, drive step foot anywhere and you're on your phone, at least you know you'll get a hell of a fine, yeah. But that is different from the situation in which you end up in the category of heavy prison sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u37	So "'just" driving, but just picking up the phone, is still going to be fined, but if you also show very dangerous driving behaviour, then the police officer and the Public Prosecutor can prosecute and claim maximum two years in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u38	Maybe it's just as good to get into the text of the article, because otherwise we'll all get into different... Let me read it out for you: "Everyone is prohibited from deliberately acting in traffic in such a way that traffic rules are seriously violated if there is a danger of life or serious injury to another person. The following behaviours may be considered as such traffic behaviour.' Well, that's for example: you're raging through red light, and I can stand just a little close to the brakes of my car, because otherwise I would have been there or there would have been serious injury. That is different from the situation where you drive through a red light at a point where you continue to drive quietly and there is no other traffic and that sort of thing. Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck to Mr Markuszower's question. Mr Markuszower also had a question about driving under the influence. Given the major dangers associated with driving a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs, this bill raises the penalty limit of Article 8 Road Traffic Act to one year. So that's a quadruple. This is a significant increase over the current three-month penalty limit. Then we really have to take this into account, and I have said this in your Chamber a number of times, that this will be the point of reference for the prosecutor and the judge. This really indicates that we see this as very serious, namely four times as serious as in the time when the previous sentence was set, one might say. Moreover, it is in line with the level of punishment in Germany, where the person driving a vehicle who is unable to drive safely through the use of alcohol or other narcotics can also be subject to a maximum sentence of one year. The conclusion is that I find that sufficiently terrifying. I will come to the amendments in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u39	Okay, but I still want to ask you again. It is indeed four times as much. But, yes, you can also say that the three-month period that came into force at the time was seriously low. Let me ask you again: if someone who really drinks a lot of alcohol can only get a maximum of one year, isn't that terrifying enough? The Minister knows that a lot of accidents happen because of people who drink alcohol. Surely it would be nice, even as a kind of preventive measure, if the deterrent effect of the penalty was as great as possible? Then maybe people get on the car less often with alcohol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u40	If an accident is caused, there is another aggravated circumstance. So we don't have to worry about that. We are talking here about the situation that someone, as Mr Markuszower just described, is just sitting on his phone for a moment. Someone sits behind the wheel and does so under the influence, but nothing else happens; he is stopped and when blowing it appears that he is above the allowed limit. Then there's a much higher maximum sentence. The expectation is, of course, based on the consultations that have taken place, that this will be truly terrifying. Mr. Chairman. I come to two amendments tabled by Mr Van Dam of the CDA. The first is Room 35086, No. 8. This means that the assessment of very dangerous driving behaviour under the new Article 5a explicitly takes into account driving under influence. You will forgive me if I first make a brief legal systematic consideration. Since this is a circumstance which is not in itself a traffic behaviour, driving under the influence is not included in the list of behaviours in Article 5a. Driving under the influence isn't about how you behave, like when you're driving under the bumper or when you're driving through the red light, but driving under the influence of course has a direct impact on seriously violating the traffic rules. That circumstance is also always involved in the assessment of dangerous traffic behaviour in the caselaw. However, I do agree with Mr Van Dam that it cannot be made clear enough that driving under the influence is really impossible and someone has to be heavily charged. I shall therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u41	That is the point of the amendment. 8 Judgment Chamber received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u42	Then there is the amendment to item No. 9. The purpose of this proposal is to amend the grounds for increased penalties in Article 175 (3) for driving under the influence so that the penalty for causing an accident under the influence is not increased by half, but doubled. From the previous exchange of views on Mr Markuszower's question, you have already deduced that I believe that driving under the influence not only deserves absolute disapproval, but also must be severely punished. It is not only a criminal offence, but it is also included in Article 6 as an independent criminal offence. I accept that this is why I judged the Chamber that it is also included in Article 5a. The penalties for causing an accident with serious consequences go up by half if the driver was under the influence of the current bill. Punishment grounds usually lead to an increase in the sentence by "'only' a third. Also according to the general recidivism of Article 43a, the Penal Code, the penalty is normally increased by a third in the event of recidivism. A double sentence, as proposed in this amendment, would lead to a criminal threat to a culpable crime, to death by guilt, which would be consistent with misdemeanours in our system. Then 12 years of imprisonment could be imposed for causing an intoxicated fatal accident, when it comes to recklessness. For comparison, among the twelve-year facts in the Code of Criminal Law are rape and trafficking in human beings. With such a doubling, the system of the criminal threat is getting a bit out of hand. Then the relationships between various criminal threats that fit the culpability of behavior drift a little apart, just to say it. That is why, despite all the sympathy I have for the idea that we need to take a firm approach to this, I would like to discourage this amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'm out of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u43	There is an interruption by Mr Van Dam about that last judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u44	I have so much to say about the substance of the matter that it goes by an interruption. So I will do so in second place. I thought it appropriate to say this in response to the Minister's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u45	Fine. Thank you to the Minister for his first-term reply. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the second term of office. I call Mr Dijkstra, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I think we're finishing a process that we've been working on for a long time. I hope it does justice to all who have felt involved, to those who have happened to this and who have turned the frustrations and sorrows of losing their dear children or other family members into something positive. Hopefully this will lead to a reduction in this type of serious accident in the future, in which recklessness can indeed be proved, with the courts being able to and will impose that penalty in a moment, and the burden of proof will also be made easier in this respect. We are therefore pleased about this. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. I have listened carefully to the Minister's reply, this afternoon and now, but I shall submit the motion. I am still considering what I am doing in the votes, because I can guess what the Minister has just said. But I also think it is important that we show that we stand up for our people who are on the road every day to help others, but sometimes at the risk of their own lives. Unfortunately, they are still faced with people who drive through those red crosses and do not behave. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Rijkswaterstaat inspectors have access to cameras in their cars to sign reckless driving, such as ignoring a red cross, and boas do not currently have this device at their disposal;]] [[Whereas ignoring a red cross poses a danger to the safety of emergency workers, road workers and road users;]] [[whereas additional enforcement is therefore necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to also provide the cars of boas with, where necessary, cameras that can record ignoring a red cross and other reckless driving behaviour in order to lift a traffic fine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35086-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u47	Thank you. I have also consciously emphasized "where necessary" in the operative part, in order to hopefully get a more favourable judgment than I have just begun to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. Mr Groothuizen does not need a second-term contribution. I call Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u49	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I initially had the idea of tabling a motion on the Kalsbeek standard in the area of road accidents, but I very much appreciate the Minister's undertaking that he will come forward with something before the Final Act. So I will not table that motion. Thank you for supporting the amendment on the extension of recklessness, so to speak. I would like to say a few words about the measure of punishment. From the outset, I have been reminded that our criminal law is a follow-up criminal law. If I'm gonna stand here in the Lang Pots with a gun and shoot it, it's gonna make a huge difference if I hit someone and shoot them or if the bullet goes through people. In the first case, I have committed a completed crime, which has been on it for years, and in the second case, the prosecutor and the judge will not go beyond an attempt where, I believe, a third of the sentence that normally stands on a completed crime will stand. In fact, Article 5a is a bit of a break-up of that, because it is precisely on something where the result is not a serious collision, injury, death, yet a severe punishment. Anyway, the penalty is decisive. A deadly collision could lead to a serious injury. It could lead to one death. It can also lead to ten deaths, so to speak. When I see what the judge has room to punish, then I'm not talking about the recidivism. You're usually in a fatal collision at three years. In reckless driving it goes to six years and when using alcohol or other means it can go to nine years. Nine years in prison for someone who drives multiple people to death by reckless driving, under the influence? With all due respect, but then I come to the point that I think that this is too little, also within the idea of a right of enforcement. In our criminal law, the consequence is to a large extent the criminal response. I fully respect the Minister's assessment that he thinks it's enough, but this is my way of thinking. I want to give the judge room. So I will not go along, for example, with the PVV's view that community service should never be imposed. I don't want to take that space away from the judge, because every case is a case in itself. However, I would like to give the judge the opportunity to do what is necessary in those extreme situations which may arise and which cause a great deal of social unrest. That is why I maintain my amendment. I hope that the Minister does not feel brusque, that my explanation will make it clear to him what I intend and that I may receive support from the Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. This also completes the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u51	Mr. Chairman. I do not think I need to say anything more about the amendments. If I am correct, I have one motion, tabled by Mr Dijkstra, in part No. 10. I can do two things with that. Let me begin by explaining why I propose to hold the motion, in the alternative, dissuade the motion. We discussed this afternoon in the other general consultation on road safety that there are currently three explorations into the powers and scope of the special investigators, the boas. These are explorations in which the VNG, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and other stakeholders are called that nowadays, but it is at least the interested parties involved. I would suggest that we hold this motion until after those reconnaissances have been completed this summer. We will probably discuss this with your Chamber soon after the summer. I would like to propose this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u52	Will you hold the motion, Mr. Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u53	I tend to do so, but I would also like to consult with my colleague. You'll hear that before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u54	In that case, the judgment shall be "unadvised'. You understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u55	The verdict is "unadvised," because otherwise we really run for proverbial music. We really should not do that, because then we will have an unexecutable motion, when the VNG and all the other parties are also involved in the boas saying: we are going that way and that way. This afternoon, the Minister for Infrastructure and the State of Water said: I do not think that my inspectors, in this case the boas in question, should be in such a position. It is good to report that and to consider not going through with the motion now. I also think this is a point to take in the exploration if you should give the boas more. Those are also the reasons why the motion should be discouraged if it is not stopped. But I sincerely hope that Mr Dijkstra will eventually continue the motion. Then, somewhere in September or October, we can discuss it constructively with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u56	Thank you. You no longer need to deal with Mr Van Dam, do I understand? It doesn't have to be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u57	I respect Mr Van Dam's approach. He has a slightly different starting point on the point we have been talking about. I indicated why I did not recommend the second amendment. We have exchanged our arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u58	Fine. Then I would like to thank you very much for your contribution in second term. I would also like to thank the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u59	On Tuesday we shall vote on the amendments tabled, on the legislative proposal and, if necessary, on Mr Dijkstra's motion. But we'll hear that before then.
