ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Kops of the PVV for his question to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, whom I would like to welcome. She's replacing the minister. The question is about disappointing the energy tax advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last year the PVV was here in the same Question Time with the same Secretary of State. The PVV said: "In 2019, the energy bill will go up by over €300." "Oh, no," said the Secretary of State annoyed, "that's all not true; that's all scary." But it turned out to be true, according to the CBS. In 2019, the energy bill increased three times as fast as this Secretary of State tried to tell us. Now the cabinet is doing the same: the cabinet promises that next year, by 2020, the energy bill will go down by about €100. Although this is mainly a cigar from its own box after years of increases, this does not seem to end up at all, because once again the cabinet calculates a much too low average energy consumption. This means that people actually consume a lot more energy than this cabinet wants us to believe and that they have to pay a lot more energy tax on that. According to calculations by gaslicht.com, this €100 discount can disappear like snow for the sun. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands about 1.5 million people, households, have payment problems. Do you think it's crazy? Because over and over and over again all kinds of promises are made by this cabinet, but that always gets nowhere. Now the workers are getting a very small plus, while in reality all the increasing burdens, including rents, only reduce them. Even the small plus, even now with the energy bill, is in reality a very thick minus. Mr. Chairman. Is that energy bill really gonna go down next year? If so, how many? Is the cabinet really going to keep this promise or is it yet another lie? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is correct that I am standing on this subject for the second time. In the meantime, Mr Kops also asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy about this. It is good that he is persistent, because this is a subject that concerns a lot of people. At the same time, I am standing here in front of the energy bill, and within it I am mainly dealing with the issue of energy taxation, because that is what the cabinet can make statements about. On September 17th, you received a letter. In the second paragraph you read the following, to which I have nothing to add: "With the measures announced, the tax portion of the energy account for a household with average consumption of €100 by 2020 compared to 2019, the tax portion of the energy account will not increase in 2021 and the increase will be reduced after 2021." Although a new cabinet will be set up in 2021, as it now looks like, you can assume that this will remain a limited increase. Mr. Chairman. This is about averages and this is about a prediction. To illustrate this well, you were able to see at the CBS publication on Prinsjesdag that there are ten different household types. Each household has its own consumption and its own tax refund and therefore also its own energy account. Whether you live alone in a new apartment or with several people in a detached house, has consequences for your consumption, for the account and ultimately for the tax. This is based on averages. It doesn't matter what situation you're in. In addition, there are also predictions about what it will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	What are we supposed to do with such an answer? The Secretary of State is reading some stuff out of some letter we've received. We've already read those letters, so we can't do anything with them. I really don't hear anything new from this Secretary of State. The fact remains, of course, that the cabinet maintains averages that are in reality many times higher. We saw that last year. Last year, according to this Secretary of State, the energy bill would go up by about €108, but that was as much as €334. Shouldn't the Secretary of State at least care about that? Instead, she is hannesing again with all kinds of averages. In reality, nothing is going to happen. It's already been proven. Of course, that doesn't help the people at home. They only see their energy bill going further and further up. Is there really going to be a €100 discount that the Cabinet has promised, or is it going to disappear in the statistics, in the averages of the Secretary of State, which the people at home have no use at all? That's the way it goes every time. All kinds of promises are made, but when they come to an end, nothing will come of it at all. They're all fine words from the Secretary of State. She's quoting a bit from all kinds of letters, but we just really want the promise, the certainty, that that discount is just going to get there. We're not gonna settle for less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	And yet reality is as diverse as it is. You're always talking about averages, like when we talked about this last year and when the Minister for Economic Affairs was talking about the energy bill in the interim. People can't be summarized in tables. For the ultimate account, it just makes a difference where you live and what your house looks like. I stand here on behalf of the Minister for Energy. This is what we have written down in a letter, which states exactly what the cabinet is going to do. You can hold us to that. But it is absolutely true what Mr Kops says. That's why it's good that he's so persistent. It is clear that people cannot be summarized in tables and that where you live can make a difference to what ends up in that energy bill. Of course, this energy bill does not come from the cabinet; it comes from the energy companies. There are other factors in this than the energy tax alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally. The Secretary of State says it's in the power companies. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that half of the energy bill is made up of taxes. Of course, the cabinet has an influence on that. The cabinet comes with all kinds of promises. As is so often the case with this cabinet, in reality nothing is going to happen. We saw it with that promised €1,000 from Rutte. Now €100 discount on the energy bill, the €100 from Wiebes and Keijzer, I would say. But we know how things are going with the cabinet: nothing is going to happen; people are just going to pay more and more. It's really too scandalous for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. For D66 it is very important that everyone can participate in this energy transition and that people can easily and cheaply switch to using clean energy at home. But we also think it is very important that we keep this promise about lower energy taxes. If, on the basis of all kinds of new insights, that promise is not being fulfilled, we must look very critically at how we can ensure that it is being fulfilled. How is the Minister going to ensure that we deliver on this commitment to the €100 energy tax reduction? Secondly, does she share D66's view that we must do everything we can to deliver on the promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	The cabinet is about the energy tax. That will eventually find its basis in the relevant legislation. That's what you can finally pay us for. Can I give guarantees about the energy bill here? No, because the cabinet is only about the energy tax section. That is what we said in the letter of 17 September. You can hold us to that and the Dutch can also hold us to that. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	A lot of people have trouble making ends meet at the end of the month. If there's one thing people want certainty about, it's the amount of the energy bill. Why does the Secretary of State come up with answers that you can't tie up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	Well, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	I shall leave that on Mr Moorlag's behalf. It's just like I say. This cabinet is about the energy tax. That is what we have said about what we are going to do with it, namely that reduction. The energy bill depends on several factors and is different for each household. So you can't make that clear either. That will have to be proved at the end of the day when that account falls on the mat. What you can pay me and the cabinet for is, in the end, the energy tax, which is being reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	We are afraid that ten different types are insufficient to describe Dutch society. I can see that in the answers of the Secretary of State. But in the climate debate before the summer recess, I drew attention to the deviant use that elderly people who sit at home all day have little movement and often have blood thinners. That's why the thermostat's a lot higher. Anyone with older relatives knows how that works. On the contrary, we are very concerned about the financial position of this group of people, because they differ from the averages and are not related to the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	I would like to know where we can find this in these ten examples, because we have not yet been able to find it. And if they're not in it, we'd like to receive them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	It is therefore a good thing that we discuss this issue with each other a lot. At least what is crystal clear is that people can't be put in a table. The Member of the 50PLUS Group is absolutely right about that. We look at average households, single households, sometimes double households, old homes and quite new homes. That's what's in these different housing types. When it comes to seniors, we need to take a good look at what the consequences are for them. The image that is sketched is very recognizable. That has consequences for the energy bill. That is why this should also be looked at at municipal level in order to ensure that older people can eventually put the stove at a temperature that is pleasant and that they can still afford.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
