ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will begin with the debate on vaccination in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Why should we vaccinate against diseases that hardly exist in our country anymore? That's a question you often read on the Internet. Then I always think: that makes sense, because we have a well-functioning vaccination policy. I'll show you a big picture. It's a child who has the measles. The measles, contrary to what many people think, are not an innocent childhood disease. It could cause pneumonia or brain damage. It could kill you. Unfortunately, this also happened in our country a few years ago. I'll also show you another picture. That's a picture of an older man, I think, from America. It may be hard to see, but he stuck a sign on his wheelchair. The man was paralyzed when he got polio. On his wheelchair he stuck a sign with "This is polio. Vaccinate!" I think that as a government we can take an example of this kind of people, of this man, but also of all the brave people we have seen on television over the last few months and who have told their personal story about the illness they have or still have. We often have very abstract discussions here, for example about vaccination rates or percentages. These are discussions that are difficult for a lot of people to follow: "Do we have to worry about a vaccination rate that is slightly above or slightly below 90%?" Therefore, it would be very good for the government to make the consequences of non-vaccinating much more visible. It would also be very good if we heard the stories of people affected by a disease more often, because we all know one story convinces so much more than a book full of statistics. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he is prepared to tell more stories of this kind and also to make the campaigns more confrontative where that can help. Mr. Chairman. It is also important that we prevent ghost stories about vaccinations. Then, for example, it can help if we gain more insight into the role that the pharmaceutical industry plays in this regard. Do we know, for example, whether the prices they ask for vaccines are real prices? Do we know anything about the profits made on vaccines? That information is important. If we do not have that information, if we do not have that openness, then it feeds people's distrust of our vaccination policy. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he agrees that the industry should give this openness and whether he is prepared to enforce that openness if necessary. We have to fight ghost stories. Unfortunately, there are a lot of stories about alleged side effects of vaccinations. It could give you autism, or chronic fatigue. It's supposed side effects that science hasn't proven. Does the Secretary of State not think it wise that, in addition to the information provided by RIVM, we should also develop a database to keep up-to-date and record all the side effects of vaccines and publish all the studies so that people can independently assess what side effects are involved in this field? Does he not agree that industry should give full openness to side effects that they have observed but which are not yet familiar with? Finally, Mr President. We understand from the RIVM that there is a problem with the registration of vaccinations. This has to do with the fact that privacy laws currently require parents to give permission to pass on information about vaccination to the RIVM. If parents do not, we lose sight of part of the vaccination rate. That's a problem. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he does not agree that public health should take precedence here and that he might have to amend the law to ensure that we do have that information. And then all the way to the end, it might just be two more questions about whether or not to vaccinate against meningococcal B. The Health Council has said don't do it yet. Yet 80 people are sick every year and young people are dying of this disease. Only three years from now we will have a new research by the Health Council on whether or not to put a vaccine against meningococcal B in the program. My question is: should we not reconsider this vaccination much earlier? I am therefore looking at foreign countries, where they have been doing so for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The vaccination rate in the Netherlands is falling and this increases the risk of serious infectious diseases. That's worrying. To keep horrible diseases like polio out of our society, we have had the National Vaccination Programme since 1957. But since then, our society has changed a lot. People have become more powerful. They know a lot more themselves, but they can also look up information. They also encounter a lot of wrong information or ghost stories, causing them to doubt the usefulness of vaccinations or become afraid of possible side effects. But the approach in the National Vaccination Programme has not changed. It's still the same: a call, a vaccination card, a sports hall full of kids or teenagers. I think we need to explain much better why certain vaccinations are being given. Take, for example, HPV vaccination for girls 12 and 13 years of age. This vaccination is for the health of individual women, who are at a much higher risk of cervical cancer without this vaccination. Only 46% received that HPV vaccine in 2017. The majority chooses to refuse this vaccine. The main reasons why girls in the majority do not want this vaccination are concerns about possible side effects, doubt about effectiveness, lack of information and negative stories. In other vaccinations more ghost stories go around, while almost no one can imagine the consequences if there is an outbreak of polio, for example. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is positive about the emphasis on information and communication, as explained in the letter of the Secretary of State. This information needs to be greatly improved. Clear information should be provided on each vaccine. So not only "you have to give your child all vaccinations," but also give information about side effects and consequences. This information must be widely available, both at the consultation offices and at the general practitioner, the pharmacy and in the hospital. Current information is mainly aimed at convincing, at providing even more scientific information. It would be good, as a youth doctor in schools, in conversations with young people but also with concerned parents, to tell us why vaccination is important. An open dialogue can counter the rumors in the schoolyard or in the social media. But such conversations take time and therefore also money. Is the Secretary of State prepared to invest in the appointment of more youth doctors so that they can play a role in discussions with children, young people and parents? My second point concerns a vaccination passport. Because who knows what vaccinations he or she has had as a child? The programme has changed in recent years. Who knows exactly which vaccinations were in the program when he got the shots himself? Which were or were not given then? Now every parent gets a card or a paper book from a consulting firm. People often lose that. I myself believe that every Dutchman should have a vaccination passport, because you have the right to know which vaccinations you have had when, but also how long they actually work. As far as I am concerned, we could merge this with the yellow passport of the GGD, which is now being given for national vaccinations. When registering a newborn, the municipality could provide this passport to parents. As a result, the government stresses the collective importance of going through the vaccination programme and actually makes a symbolic appeal to parents. Finally, it also places the municipalities in a position to be responsible for the implementation of the National vaccination programme. Is the Secretary of State prepared to introduce a vaccination passport? Thirdly, I have questions about the speed of decision-making. Which vaccinations do we have in the program exactly? How do we ensure that the program responds quickly enough to new situations? It appears that the government already knew in 2016 of a possible outbreak of meningococcal type W, but it was only in 2019 that the vaccine became available for still a limited group. I understand that such a consideration...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	I see you're very soon...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	I can finish, or I can wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	Are you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yes. Such a balance must, of course, be carefully considered, but why has it taken so long? Why not give advice to all authorised vaccines? I cannot escape the impression that advice is being delayed by the Health Council in particular. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have the current procedure evaluated independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	My question concerns the vaccination passport, the proposal made by GroenLinks here and also today in the newspaper. But I'm a little surprised, because on the website of the national vaccination programme.nl we read: "You can apply for vaccination data by applying for vaccination certificate. You will receive the vaccination certificate after 2-3 weeks by post." And: "The registration of vaccinations has been introduced gradually since 1968. (...) Were you born after these dates? Then your vaccination status is known." Wasn't GroenLinks aware of this? Did it have to quickly bring a news item to the media, or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	We're aware of how it's organized now. By the way, there is still much to be said about digital registration, because this central registration is not so simple. When people moved before their 18th, it turns out it's not that easy either. Then you're dealing with more G.D.D.s. We think it is important that everyone has this individually. That's a symbol, because you're showing how you've been vaccinated. But if a girl is not vaccinated at 12 or 13 years of age, she can go to the doctor two years later and say: I have been vaccinated and I still want a vaccination against HPV. This puts other people in a position to change the vaccination policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	So that's all not true, I say to Mr. Renkema. It's really not true what he's saying here. Everything's registered. If you were born after 1968, your vaccination status is known. That's on national vaccination program.nl. So you can request your vaccination data via Application vaccination certificate. Then you'll be sent it by mail in two to three weeks. This is up-to-date. It's just available. What you're proposing exists, it's accurate, it's available. The criticism you have on that... Really, what you want, just exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, maybe finally. It exists in digital form. I do not know how many people then go there to see how they were vaccinated, but we also talked to parents who thought their child had been vaccinated and what did not turn out to be the case. I think, then, say very clearly, your own passport is an expression of your history of vaccination. That doesn't replace digital registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	The digital registration is up-to-date. If you apply for a passport today, it might not be up-to-date in four or five years. Then this is better, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	I think it's en-en.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	I have the passport with me. I can look back on what I was vaccinated for for a long time. I got a vaccination of meningococcals in November. It's in here, too. So you can also register it, and it's digital. The future will be digital. Actually, this would be an intermediate form that works pretty well. What exactly are you trying to achieve with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	I think that's where you have the national vaccination passport, which every G.D.D. provides. That is the WHO model. Of course, you can also register your own vaccinations. My proposal is that this should be done by any consultation agency, but also later by the general practitioner when it is done. You just don't have to put it in yourself, it's done for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u18	At Mrs Agema's interruption, Mr Renkema acknowledged the existence of the digital system. There may be improvements to be made. He then proposes, however, to take a step back in time and to create a new paper booklet, which already exists in part. That is the growth book, called the "green book" by many people, in which everything is put on paper. What is the result that GroenLinks wants to go to? Is that improving the digital system? Then you have me on your side, because I am sure there will be improvements to be made. Or is that a step back in time and working with paper again old-fashioned, which I wouldn't expect from a party like GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u19	We're definitely not going back in time. I want a very good digital system. But let's get this straight. I've asked a lot of people about the green book, the vaccination card, the growth book that parents get. My experience is that many people say that it is either in a nice storage box in the attic or in the old paper. People don't have it anymore. The moment we opt for a paper vaccination passport, that's not instead of a digital system. But I would also like to say to the VVD that an ordinary passport or driving licence can also be digitally and could also be in our mobile phone, but we do not. It is based on an official document; it appeals to the importance of the document and what it stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u20	I give you the floor, but the debate is about whether or not to vaccinate and the importance of vaccination. I think it is important that digitalisation be included, but try to get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u21	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. It's about the importance of vaccinating. Where parents now have their children vaccinated, they get a physical document. You can call that passport, green booklet or paperwork, but you get proof of what kind of vaccination the child has been given. It is digitally available, so I think GroenLinks is suggesting something that adds nothing, suggesting that if you put the label "passport" on it, it will have more value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u22	Good. You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u23	I don't know if I should respond to this, because then I'm gonna repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u24	No, I don't think that's very convenient. Mrs Ploumen's turn is now on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. If your baby gets sick, then everything else in your life is of course irrelevant. How bad does it have to be to see your child get sick and know that a vaccine is available? That's the scare we're trying to avoid. At the same time, we see that an increasing group of parents consciously chooses not to let their own child in. This puts their own child at risk, but also other children. This leads to great concerns and uncertainty for parents. Is my kid gonna be home sick from day care? Can my child be the victim of another child not being vaccinated? What can I do as a parent to protect my child? Something has to be done. Parents shouldn't have to have these unnecessary concerns. As a parent, you have to be sure your child is safe. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State agrees with us and recognises the risks. We support his measures, but would like to call on him to move forward, to do more. I have three proposals for this. Mr. Chairman. Every morning a lot of parents bring their child to child care with a lot of confidence. Precisely because children meet there, eat and play with each other, the risk of infecting each other is potentially high. That is why we need a reporting obligation. Parents should then demonstrate by registration whether the child has been vaccinated and childcare should be given the right to refuse children on that basis. D66 submitted an initiative law in the Chamber. We would like to ask the Secretary of State to take over and execute it. We also support the D66 proposal. My second point. The national vaccination programme is now set up on minors, while there is also a large group of adults who want to correct the choice of their parents not to let their child in. Those people write and approach me. They want to protect themselves and others and still be vaccinated. The cost of this must now be borne by themselves. It is also a bit of a search: from GP to GGD and back and then back to the passenger vaccinations department. No one knows how best to do that. Is the Secretary of State prepared to open the National Vaccination Programme for adults who still want to be vaccinated? Mr. Chairman. On Facebook and on all kinds of websites incredibly many ghost stories are told about vaccinations. Mr Hijink has already spoken about this. Although it is tempting to say that these people are totally disturbed or wrong, of course there are parents who have legitimate questions. They just want to know what's going on with these vaccinations. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State has set up a committee to actively combat fake news and ghost stories. Still, more can happen. For example, what does the Secretary of State think of the suggestion not to speak of HPV vaccinations but of anti-cancer vaccinations and not of the vaccination rate but just of the percentage of people who have been vaccinated in the Netherlands? How does the Secretary of State see his own role? Finally, it is, of course, completely counterproductive when experts start contradicting their own previous policies. Roel Coutinho, top scientist, recently said in the Volkskrant that the HPV shot, the shot that protects girls and women from cervical cancer, can simply be removed from the National Vaccination Programme. What total nonsense and incredibly sexist! I really hate it. I would very much like the Secretary of State to withdraw the suggestion. It agrees that this is sexist, that sexism does not belong in a national vaccination programme and that so-called experts should keep away from it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Veld... No, Mrs Ploumen, you can't talk to the Secretary of State outside the microphone. You know that very well. But you have to come back, because there's someone out there; Mrs. Dik-Faber wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr. President, I'm gonna make my life better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u28	I'll hold you to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u29	I have a question about the position of the Labour Party when it comes to daycare. Because, of course, I can also understand that there is a conversation between a daycare center and parents who have not had their child vaccinated. But if we go one more step further and say "there really must be a notification, nurserys must be able to refuse children," again, I can imagine anything about that..... we do not create the risk of daycare, where the so-called anti-vaxers are all going to take their children, creating fireplaces and new risks? That's not what we want with each other, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u30	Of course, it is a dilemma that Mrs Dik-Faber outlines. However, as far as I am concerned, the answer to this is quite simple and unambiguous. There's a national vaccination program. The Secretary of State and the Labour Party propose a number of measures to better inform parents. And it really can't be that, on the basis of that information, parents put other children at risk as well, based on their own choice. So I hope that many parents will decide with the measures that are now being proposed to simply vaccinate their children. When it comes to parents who consciously take risks with their own children, but also with other children, the consequences are for those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u31	Of course, my group also finds it extremely worrying when parents put the safety of their children and other children at risk and do not vaccinate. Once again, my question: if daycare centres are going to send too much, children are going to refuse to do so, and again, I can imagine anything, even from the personal responsibility of a daycare center and go a step further, by refusing children and by publishing things, then you are creating a situation where the anti-vaxers are going to visit each other and bring their children together to a new daycare center. That's just what's going on in this country. Again, we are creating new risks. So in one place we create a kind of false safety and in the other place a huge risk to society as a whole. That's not what Mrs Ploumen wants, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u32	On the other hand, it is quite simple. It can't be that the government is watching without a job while parents are endangering not only their own children but other children as well. This simply requires measures. There are already daycare centres that have some kind of informal reporting obligation, where parents are specifically asked whether or not their child is vaccinated. I understand the concerns of the parents, I understand the concerns of the daycare centers, but I do not think that the government should actually engage with them. This is precisely what the government must do on the basis of a transparent legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u33	I think Mrs Dik-Faber has a point. If Mrs Ploumen says 'the government should be more involved', then that is an additional reason not only for laying down that responsibility at daycare centres. And that's what's happening in D66's bill. Opponents of that law also say that if you want to do so, then I would not suggest it at this time, because it is too early for that kind of harder measures.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then you're consistent, but you're actually putting that responsibility at the daycare center.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u34	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u35	Well, the question is whether this is not linked to the risks that Mrs Dik-Faber mentions, but also whether it does not go too far in market thinking, to impose that responsibility on the market and on parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u37	The importance of such a bill is that it applies to all daycare centres. The importance of a legislative proposal, but I'm sure D66 will also talk about it himself, is that it applies to everyone. And it also imposes a responsibility on the government to supervise. So that would be my first response to Mr Hijink's question. My second reaction would be: this is not an isolated measure. Mr Hijink has made proposals himself, I have made a number of proposals and the Secretary of State presents a plan. This means that we want to join each other and look at all possible parts to see how best to protect our children and how best to inform parents. Within that overall package, I think this is a sensible measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u38	Critics of this proposal say precisely: you are taking the risk of more infectious diseases and a faster spread of infectious diseases. Because, just as Mrs Dik-Faber says, you get nurserys where purely vaccinated children are and nurserys where the vaccination rate is far too low, up to 50%: the anthroposophers or indeed the reformatoric people. That's dangerous. So I think we should look at this proposal very openly. We shouldn't run away from that kind of risk. If it turns out that this is a real risk, is the PvdA prepared to see whether you should either go that far or go further and say: it should apply to all daycare centres?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you to Mr Hijink. Yes, I very much agree with him that you should not make such proposals lightly; they should be based on research and discussions with experts. If you look at experiences abroad, where there are, of course, far more far-reaching laws in some countries, then you can see that they do have results. I am certainly open to all kinds of suggestions and also think that we should weigh the risks properly. But in there, and in that overall package, I do think that this is a sound proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u40	I'm going into another point. I noticed that Mrs Ploumen took a very respectful tone, until it was about Professor Coutinho, who was placed as a sexist at once. That surprised me, actually. Because isn't it just a fair discussion, in which you can disagree whether to give priority to infectious diseases for which there is the broadest support within the National vaccination programme, or whether there should indeed be an ever wider choice of additives? And in this case, his plea was not to completely abolish it, but to arrange it in a different way. Then why do you use such heavy words? And does that help, especially in the discussion about vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u41	That's for two reasons. The first reason is that I find it incomprehensible that any expert in a formal position, and Mr Coutinho had it, was in favour of including this HPV vaccination in the National vaccination programme and then, when he gets out of that role, in the newspaper says: we should not really do that. I think that undermines the credibility of expert advice. You either think so or you don't, but I don't think this is the way to do it. So that's one part of my annoyance. The second part of my annoyance concerns the fact that this is a vaccine that protects women and girls. Why then is this group called upon and said: "Well, for those women and girls it doesn't really have to. They can go to the general practitioner or in another way...; we don't have to offer that anymore." I am indeed very angry about that, and it is true what Mr Van der Staaij says: I am unable to speak respectfully about it. I find it really very annoying and I find it sexist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u42	And I think it's an example of how it can be relieved to say something with very heavy words. But the question is whether it's true and if that's really the reason. What also lingers from what Mrs Ploumen says: about HPV vaccination is more discussion than you think. Even scientists have changed their minds. The effect could therefore be that you are actually undermining it rather than strengthening it and thus not actually serving the purpose of Mrs Ploumen. How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u43	I do not agree with Mr Van der Staaij. This morning, the KWF, the Dutch cancer fund, announced that they will work to bring the HPV vaccine, which protects against cervical cancer, to the attention of women and girls and to highlight its importance. I think it is right to be consistent and to indicate: this is a vaccine that is included in the programme and is therefore effective, because otherwise it would not have come in; we must keep it in it. Once again, I find it sexist and annoying when experts distance themselves from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I'm gonna see if you're gonna talk to someone again, but you won't. Very good. Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has one of the best healthcare systems in the world and that is something to be proud of. At the same time, we must continue to protect it, because we need to work on good health. For example, we vaccinate against diseases to keep people healthy. In recent years, however, there has been a trend in which vaccination is becoming more and more demand rather than a given. I find that incomprehensible. Vaccination is a matter of protecting our own children and other people's children, and so is each other. We see parents taking precautions in all kinds of areas because they are terrified that something happens to their child, from bicycle helmets and child locks to covered sockets. How bizarre is it then that there are parents who do not take precautions when it comes to deadly diseases. Googlingly, the expertise of experts is ignored and dismissed as "any opinion." In this way parents take a large and irresponsible risk in terms of the VVD by deciding not to vaccinate their child. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State's plan of attack is, on its own, nothing wrong, but is it enough? It is, after all, a rational approach to communication and information aimed at people who make decisions on the basis of emotion. Shouldn't we start thinking a few more steps now? Because waiting for the vaccination rate to be irresponsiblely low is not an option. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has launched an investigation aimed at parents' concerns about the safety of childcare. This study therefore does not directly address an increased risk of infection by re-establishing the vaccination rate. That is why I think it is important to start exploring other possibilities now. Now figuring things out makes it possible, if necessary, to take faster steps. For example, what are the pros and cons of refusing to allow unvaccinated children to go through nurseries? What are the pros and cons of having to refuse unvaccinated children through nurseries, as happens in Australia, for example? And what are the pros and cons of the Australian "no jab, no pay" approach, so "no prick, no money"? Does a financial incentive not provide certain child-related supplements if a child is not vaccinated? I want the Secretary of State to list, analyse and assess such examples. Mr. Chairman. Then one final point. I find it incomprehensible and unacceptable that the Health Council should do as much as ten years on advice, as with rotavirus. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to examine whether the Healthcare Institute can take over this task. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this? In addition, I want an obligation to give advice on each registered vaccine. That is the end of the voluntary arrangement and we are no longer pursuing the facts, as has happened with meningococcals B. Is the Secretary of State prepared to impose this obligation? Mr President, I will conclude. We have built up care very well in the Netherlands. The overall health of Dutch people is high. This can only be done if we are side by side with each other in dealing with such beautiful and large health inventions such as vaccination. Because only then will we ensure that our care and our health remain the very best. We'll settle that with each other and for each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u46	This summer we heard from the VVD a thought, a call for mandatory vaccination. That was a thought of the VVD. Does Mr Veldman still see that as a suitable direction, even when he hears that RIVM is wondering how effective that is, because it cannot be controlled and cannot be maintained? Of course, it can also cause a lot of resistance. I am therefore curious to see what Mr Veldman is capable of doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u47	I am no different from what my group chairman said last summer. He has shared his concerns and I hope that we share those concerns that the risk of infection is increasing as a result of that falling vaccination rate. Then I would like to add that, unfortunately, I am prepared to look at all possible measures that you can take. That is exactly what my group chairman and the VVD say. If necessary, as a kind of last step, I see it as a last resort, too, should dare to think about an overall obligation. I'd rather not. That is why I mentioned a number of other examples which are less far-reaching. It's a subject where you don't have to work with taboos. You must be prepared to take measures for the safety of our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u48	I think we share the objective of increasing vaccination rates. When I listen to Mr Veldman like that, I wonder if he sees the risks. Does he even look at the fundamental right of physical integrity when it comes to such an obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u49	That is exactly why I ask the Secretary of State to examine a number of measures, a number of examples I mention. Every measure has its pros and cons. Yes, there are all kinds of constitutional rights and obligations that we have also entered into as a Member of Parliament. Article 23 of the Constitution also states that the government is taking measures to promote health. And so you should be willing to think about measures that can contribute to increasing that vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u50	I also return to the interview or, in my opinion, Mr Dijkhoff's column. I assume that's the VVD's position. What struck me, among other things, was the language. He put away a number of groups of people who don't let vaccinate like crazies. Some of them are people who do this from their beliefs, especially foundly reformed. For another part, it's people who have doubts about vaccinations. Does the VVD still share that qualification or do we distance ourselves from it today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u51	You can give a lot of qualifications to people who, in my view, make strange decisions. I just called it "crazy" myself. I find it truly bizarre when parents take the decision not to vaccinate their child on the basis of random messages that they already find Googling, and therefore risk their child getting all kinds of diseases and possibly even dying. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u52	Bizarre, but you do not remove groups that choose to do so as: they are off the path.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u53	The moment you get the opinion of experts in the wind because you see something googling, I think that's bizarre and kind of crazy, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u54	Last time, Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u55	That goes for all the groups? I just mentioned people with a certain belief. I am also thinking of anthroposophers and people who for another reason refrain from vaccination. You're saying this about all the people who don't vaccinate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u56	I give everyone his own conviction, but I stand here to do what is necessary, and that is to protect and keep the health of our children safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u58	Madam President. Perhaps even more pre-alabel for the Acts: Mr Veldman just mentioned Article 23 of the Constitution. I am glad that he is so keen on the freedom of education, but Article 22 is the article on health. Mr. Chairman. The vaccination rate has fallen slightly in recent years. That is why we are holding this debate. The Secretary of State has come up with a number of actions to reverse that trend. An important question is, of course, why, where is it that the vaccination rate has fallen? The Secretary of State says he's having a hard time putting his finger on this. It's gonna stay very open now. My view is that it is quite clear that they are mainly new groups, such as the anti-vaxers, which cause vaccination rates to fall due to arguments spread over the Internet about possible side effects, and the point of autism has already been mentioned, as well as arguments about the power of the pharmaceutical industry that would impose new vaccines. I think that is the new reality we are dealing with. I would add that I do not think it is likely that the decreasing vaccination rate is caused by well-known groups in which there are objections to vaccination, such as part of the reformatarian mindset and the anthroposophical circle. Research shows that the vaccination rate in the reformatorian mood has just risen. The Secretary of State wants to be as broad a front as possible to increase vaccination readiness. Such a very broad approach sounds sympathetic. My concern is that when you focus on everyone, you run the risk that no one will feel touched. Does the Secretary of State share this concern and can he therefore give a more precise indication of which groups he recognizes, even if that is not entirely to be determined, and to which he also wishes to pay particular attention? Mr. Chairman. The SGP considers it important that parents make an informed choice about the vaccination of their children on the basis of correct information. A number of years ago, the Dutch Patient Association, in collaboration with an academic network, gave a hand delivery in a brochure to reformatorical parents for the process of selecting vaccination. A careful, well-informed, conscientious balance is central to this. I think this hand-out is an example of how to enter into dialogue on vaccination. I appreciate that the Secretary of State wants parents to weigh up on the basis of correct information. I only have doubts about the form of the team of independent experts that should actively respond to misconceptions about vaccinations. Is this really gonna work? Do you have to fight disinformation as a government agency? Can't you bet much better on having personal conversations with the GP? The Seydel Committee stressed much more than the Secretary of State the dialogue with parents about the choice to be made, it seems. To what extent does the Secretary of State involve the recommendations of the Seydel Commission in his action programme? Mr. Chairman. In the Secretary of State's note, I see that he is considering in the letter that vaccination should be compulsory in certain circumstances in the event of a permanent reduction in the vaccination rate. The SGP has always opposed this and will continue to do so. With such a vaccination obligation, we believe that we are taking too much action in the area of privacy, which, as we have just heard, is also constitutionally protected. You can't force people to do something that goes against their consciences. This also works counter-productively, as history learns. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to refrain from proposing a vaccination obligation, even if it has now been said that it may be possible in the long term. It seems that that door is being opened up, while it has always been kept a bit firmly closed so far. Finally, Mr President. As of 1 January, municipalities will be responsible for the implementation of the National vaccination programme. I recommend that the discussion on this issue, including the democratic dialogue within the municipal councils, should take place first of all. Is my picture that this is already the case? At least I hear examples from municipalities where this has already been taken seriously and where the conversation has taken place. That seems to me to be a good thing, close to the citizen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u59	I have one question for Mr Van der Staaij about that good conversation. I myself have just proposed to appoint many more youth doctors to have that good conversation in schools as well. Does Mr Van der Staaij, also looking at the supporters of the reformatory school, think that young people should be given good education at school, given by youth doctors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u60	I don't think youth doctors at school are necessarily the way to do that. I think it is important that, especially when it comes to responsibility for young children, parents should be called upon to do so. Next, you can see that the experience in the reformed mindset is also learning that it is a crucial moment when you have children and you wonder: how did it go at our home and how do I want to deal with them myself? Having children is a very important moment to pay attention to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u61	I think it is important for young people to be given good information and the opportunity to choose for themselves. But do I understand why Mr Van der Staaij is saying: those reformatory schools should not actually be involved in such discussions by experts, as is also proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u62	I do not think that we should prescribe how this should take place in schools. Schools are free to raise themes and to highlight different beliefs. The experience from reformatorial circles learned and still learns that, for example, it is also said that in that conversation you should not stress too much the medical arguments if it is ultimately more of a belief argument where the question is: "Can you do that? Is that even allowed? Is inoculation a good cure? Am I not going to sit on God's chair while I have some kind of sickening medicine injected?" Those are things people wrestle with. It is important, as was the case with that brochure, that these arguments should also be brought to the fore. If such a brochure is discussed in schools when it is being discussed, it could be very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mrs Dik-Faber, on behalf of the Christian Union, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By vaccinating, you protect your child from nasty, even deadly diseases. Moreover, you indirectly ensure the protection of other young children who have not yet had vaccinations. You'd say, "What parent doesn't want that?" We have long known the parents who, by appealing to their beliefs, do not want their children vaccinated. The size of this group has been about the same for years, but unfortunately in recent years we have also seen another growing group of parents who are against vaccinations, not because of religious beliefs but because of distrust of the government or the pharmaceutical industry, because of fear of non-existent side effects or because of the idea that it will all be okay. It seems as if vaccinations are threatened in this way by one's own success. The risk has vanished and this also evaporates the fear of the forgotten diseases. In response to the decreasing vaccination rate, advocates of vaccinations have come up with radical proposals: requiring parents to vaccinate their child, refusing parents to give a discount on child benefit and giving daycare facilities the opportunity to refuse children. All this has led to a vigorous debate. Let me be clear about this. The Christian Union considers it legitimate for people to call on freedom of religion and the right to physical integrity. Our bodies aren't government. It is primarily up to the parents themselves to decide whether they want to inoculate their children. Moreover, in our opinion, your beliefs do not change us with coercion and punitive measures. But, of course, there's something going on. There's a falling vaccination rate. The urgency is great. There is great reason for action. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State is taking measures to increase vaccination readiness. I have a few more questions about that. For example, there is a critical report by the Seydel Committee on the communication by RIVM. Parents have become more critical and RIVM has to move along but does not do enough. The former, what I call, mission method where parents take everything footsteps, really can't do anymore. We need to take the perspective of the concerned and concerned parent much more seriously. With even more information and fighting fake news, we will not get there and we will only push critical parents further away from us. How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that this cultural change at RIVM is actually realised? Mr President, shall I continue? I'm picking up some interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u65	I think Mr Hijink has an interruption and then Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u66	I have a question on the first point made by Mrs Dik-Faber. When I listen to her, I get the feeling that I do, but I get the same feeling when I listen to Mr Van der Staaij, that there is some sort of distinction between groups that turn away from vaccinations and people who do it for other reasons, whatever you may think of those reasons. Is it true that Mrs Dik-Faber makes that distinction? And does she also think that one group should not only have a different approach, but that you should perhaps work the new group, as she calls it, much more effectively than the group that we have known for a long time that she does not want to have her children vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u67	I think there are two totally different groups here. On the one hand, the group we have known for a long time and who chooses not to inoculate children on the basis of faith. I understand that group isn't getting any bigger. I was recently at a conference where I heard that group is getting even smaller. I think it is good news that there is also a movement in that group to have children vaccinated more often. There is another group that I am really very concerned about, namely the group of anti-vaxers, who, on the basis of all kinds of information that is not scientifically substantiated, come up against inoculating their children. Well, that's what I'm really worried about. We are not talking about freedom of faith, we are really talking about wrong information on the basis of which parents make wrong choices. I'd really like to fight that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u68	So that's what's bothering me a little bit. This makes a distinction between the motives people have about whether or not to vaccinate. You could also argue the other way around: if in the group from the Christian and anthroposophical angle the vaccination rate is apparently rising, you said it yourself, there must be at least as hard, perhaps harder bet on that other group, so that it will also participate more. What bothers me is that the responsibility for this falling vaccination rate is now being fully placed by the Christian parties in a new group that would base itself on false arguments. I think it is quite a group that we approach this group, but, as far as I am concerned, in the same way, on the same footing and with the same level of commitment as the group we have known for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u69	Well, I really need to think about this. For I think we have traditionally already the group that, from a certain belief, does not choose to inoculate her children. That small group stays the same, stays small and even gets smaller. That falling vaccination rate is just one-on-one to assign to that other group, the antivaxers. I really don't think it's possible to operate both groups with the same information. I don't think that's gonna work. We're gonna have to convince people with good information to have their kids inoculated. I would very much like to put forward proposals for this, which I will come up with in the course of my speech. Let me leave it at that, Mr President, because I see even more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u70	I note an appalling inconsistency with Mrs Dik-Faber. In her opinion, it is fine that there are believers who do not have their children inoculated, but now that there is a new group and the total vaccination rate of all children is at stake, now that new group has to start vaccination, to keep that other group, which does not want to vaccinate, but out of the wind. That's impossible, isn't it? The Christian Union must recognize that all groups must be motivated to vaccinate, to keep it safe for their children and all children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u71	I think Mrs Agema is deliberately confusing my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u72	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u74	You just said quite clearly: the other group, that was the culprit. You said that very clearly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u75	The fact that there is now a falling vaccination rate compared to the figures we have known for decades can be reduced one-on-one to a new group of people. Not a fair picture, but then we all know what we're talking about: people from the canal belt, bicycle owners and so on, highly educated, green, environmentally conscious. There is a group that comes to the wrong conclusion on the basis of wrong arguments. That is the group that I think we can convince with good information and a conversation with a doctor to have their child inoculated. That group is being misguided by incorrect information distributed by anti-vaxers. I am not saying that I am not sorry that there are also people with religious beliefs who do not allow their child to inoculate. I see that's happening. I'd also like that conversation to be made from the NPV or the churches. But you can't blame that group for being the cause of the falling vaccination rate. Because that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u76	But if that group happened to be a bit bigger, then the vaccination rate was also at stake. If you're dealing with groups, the non-vaxers or the reformed ones, you need to motivate and persuade them both. I'm not in favour of coercion, but you have to try to persuade both of them. If you say "a new group has joined; it must be dealt with and not the religious group," then you are simply wrong in this house. You cannot say: the responsibility for the vaccination rate lies with another, because the group of believers is just small enough not to compromise the vaccination rate. That's inconsistent, isn't it? The Christian Union can't do that here, can it? It's about the health and lives of all the children in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u77	It's about the health of all the children in the country. I think it is extremely important that all parents make a proper assessment of this. But again, we have traditionally had a small group of people who, on the basis of their beliefs, do not inoculate their child and that has never been problematic. We have freedom of faith in this country. We have the right to protection of physical integrity. With these basic values, I find it justifiable that this group makes that choice, also because it is such a small group. But now we see that we are falling below certain values and that is because there is a new group. That group is growing. It doesn't question on the basis of religious arguments or physical integrity, but on the basis of fake news. That's what we have to fight, isn't it? I find fake news really incomparable to beliefs. We can't put all that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u78	Good. Then I'll go to Mr Renkema. No, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u79	I'd like to use my second interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u80	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u81	There is another group: Muslims in large cities. An ever-growing group of Muslims doesn't vaccinate either. Inshallah, they say. And what does Mrs. Dik-Faber say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u82	We will have to bear that in mind too. I would like to say to Mrs Agema that I will look into the arguments put forward by this group. I do not know at this time what their beliefs are and where they come from. Do they have anything to do with faith or wrong information? This group too has a responsibility; I will give that to Mrs Agema. I'll look into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u83	If a child gets sick and the measles gets due to the decreasing vaccination rate, then the effect is the same, right? Then it doesn't matter if that falling vaccination rate is due to religious or other beliefs? That baby's gonna be sick for a while, right? Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u84	Yes. If a child is infected, then a child is sick and it doesn't matter which group it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u85	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber saying that like me, she doesn't want children to get sick. It's just as bad, isn't it, if you don't vaccinate your kids for religious or other reasons? She can't justify that, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u86	I object to the argument of people with certain beliefs being lumped together with the arguments of people who do not vaccinate on the basis of fake news. The result is the same; I agree with you. But the belief, the basis that parents have, is completely different. Let us indeed inform the one group properly. Let's have a conversation with doctors. Let's get fake news out of the world. People with a certain belief also have their own responsibility. A brochure of the NPV was just referred to. I didn't know that brochure yet, but I'm gonna check it out. I'd be happy to have that conversation from the churches, because those parents have essential questions. So there too a dialogue will take place. In this debate in the Chamber it is all thrown into a pile because the outcome is the same. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u87	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u88	That is precisely the intention, because it is my concern that no child in the Netherlands should be infected when that is not necessary! I am concerned that no child in the Netherlands should become ill. Parental considerations do not matter for the outcome. Children are becoming unnecessarily ill in the reality of Mrs Dik-Faber. That is what she is advocating here. I find that rather scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u89	That was an observation, I noticed. Who was there before, Mr Veldman or Mr Renkema? Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u90	We don't care much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u91	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u92	I get the impression that Mrs Dik-Faber does not see the safety and health of our children as the highest priority. As she has already said, I am not prepared to think about further measures. That is strange, because in many other areas we will find them. This way parents get a fine if they don't have a highchair in the car. When children are abused, we send in child care. These are all measures to ensure that children can grow up safely. Then it is weird that at the moment, when we see that the vaccination rate is falling, you are not prepared to take steps and to think about what else we can do to raise the vaccination rate. Information and communication is good, but I think you should be willing to think further. Is Mrs Dik-Faber prepared to take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u93	I think I have just said that the information and communication-old-style we have is not enough, so I do nothing but think about how to raise the vaccination rate. I'm halfway through my speech. I will come up with a number of proposals in a moment. Indeed, I am not ready for us to come up with coercive measures. I think that we should first look at what we can achieve on the basis of dialogue and the position of doctors. I have also heard Mr Veldman very well. He said: I would very much like to see how this now works in other countries. That's what I'm looking forward to. If he makes a proposal for that and says "let the Secretary of State map it out," I'm fine with that. Let's take a look at that. The route is first dialogue, in the 21st century appropriate communication, to match the critical questions of parents and doctors in position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u94	I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber on that last point. I also said that, on its own, there is nothing wrong with the Secretary of State's plan of attack. It is only in this interruption that I can tell that Mrs Dik-Faber is prepared to think about further steps. I am happy about that, because then we share the fact that the best interests of the child are paramount and that the safety of children must be paramount, so you must be prepared to take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u95	That was also an observation. Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u96	I actually have a question about HPV to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. I have heard her say a lot about the vaccination rate among young children in particular, but I have not heard anything about the fact that more than half of the girls choose to avoid that HPV vaccination. Do you think she'd like to say something about that? As a result, I am actually asking her the same question as I asked Mr Van der Staaij. When it comes to discussions by experts such as youth doctors, does she think that evangelical schools and liberated reformed schools, for example, should be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u97	That low vaccination rate against HPV worries me, too. I don't mean to be silly, but I'd like to ask what we're going to do about this now... to the Secretary of State. You're talking not only about parents who decide about their little baby, but also about teenagers who talk a lot in class. I think there's been a campaign specifically aimed at teenagers, and they've been given a personal post to be vaccinated. So I think the Secretary of State is doing a lot, but I'd like to hear what else is possible. I know that in certain countries, I believe in Australia, the vaccination rate against HPV is very high. As a result, certain types of cancer just don't occur there anymore. That, of course, is an enormous health gain. It would be nice if we could reach them in the Netherlands as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u98	I know the letters and the brochures, but I am here today proposing that youth doctors be used in schools to accompany this conversation. And my question was: are you also looking at evangelical and liberated reformed schools? Does the Christian Union say: yes, it is good that experts there have that kind of conversation with teenagers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u99	I would really welcome it if schools were to take that step. That applies to all schools. I would just like to add that we also have Islamic schools, as far as we have them in the Netherlands. Schools of all signatures should therefore enter into the conversation. I wouldn't mind if we attracted youth doctors. At the same time, we have freedom of education here. So if Mr Renkema is going to table a motion today that the Secretary of State orders to ensure that every school has such a youth doctor within the gates to provide that information, then I say: that goes against the freedom of education. I can only make the call. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you. Please continue. Mr Renkema says that this motion is not coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u101	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u102	Well, that's reassuring for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u103	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is keen to strengthen the role of the jgz professionals, the youth health care professionals. If the parents do not show up for vaccination, they will be invited to an interview. This is a gain compared to the current situation. But the critical parents who don't show up are often the same parents who stay away from the consultancies, where they think they're being patronized and get the feeling they're not doing it right. That's why I'm wondering if this is gonna work. Should we not just join experts like the general practitioner, who do take them seriously, I ask the Secretary of State. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We had a round table. Others have already referred to this. There was someone from Lareb, too. She indicated what the most frequently asked question Lareb gets from parents who had their child inoculated earlier. That child then has a fever and the question that parents then ask is: we are being called up for a new vaccination; does my child get fever again? Lareb can't answer that question. They have therefore also proposed that they follow a birth cohort, as it is called, long-term to map the side effects, so that they are also better able to inform parents and, if possible, reassure them. My question to the Secretary of State is what he thinks of Lareb's appeal and what he can do in it. Finally, Mr President. When you talk to doctors and scientists, they come up with a whole list of diseases that should be subject to vaccinations in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the advice pathways of the Health Council often last a very long time, and we see only two opinions, two topics, in the work agenda. If we take vaccinations seriously and want to protect our children well, something will have to change. Does the Secretary of State see possibilities to strengthen the Commission's vaccinations of the Health Council and to shorten the lead time of the advice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been talking about vaccinations for a long time. It is also an important subject. It's very important, because we're dealing with an increasing risk of infection. In the run-up to this debate, we have already been informed by various experts and experience experts. It is clear that there is not one solution for this. Several actions are needed. My colleague Raemakers' initiative law on child centres is one of them. This ensures that parents have transparency about the question: are my children going to a safe environment? This will enable them to make a well-informed choice. Mr. Chairman. That is one of the points I want to stress today: the importance of information on vaccination. Information must be given in an accessible, fair, convincing and personal manner. This means that a number of things have to be done. For example, attention should be paid to the issue of the increasing risk of infection in the training of general practitioners and obstetricians. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's going to work on this. There is already a possibility to hold additional hours for parents at consultation offices. How much is being used and how does the Secretary of State intend to make greater use of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u106	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u107	I'm done with this point now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u108	Okay. Then there is an interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u109	Just to check, are you coming back to that initiative law, or is this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u110	This is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u111	Then I have a question about that. Critics say that we have just had that little debate with Mrs Ploumen. This bill is partly shifting the fundamental public responsibility of protecting public health to parents, who have to choose a particular daycare facility, and the boards of daycare centres, who have to deal with the question: do I allow or not allow unvaccinated children? That is a problem, because it is going to give you exactly what is being warned, namely a division between places where vaccination is being carried out and locations where vaccination is not being carried out. So you're gonna take huge risks on that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u112	Yeah, that's right. But this is a run-up in case the vaccination rate does not increase, but goes further down. I think that with this initiative law we are taking a first step towards a good solution, if things go badly. Secondly, I think it is very important that we know that daycare centres are kept to the fact that the chlorine is not in the sink in which children can access, that there is bed protection and that a lot of other things are well arranged. I would also like to know as a parent if the children are safe where I'm taking my child, or if I'm taking them to a good environment. If we focus more on information and personal conviction, I think that the parents, the fireplaces, will be fine. Awareness increases that general vaccination rate further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u113	That seems to me to be an optimistic assessment, which cannot be made. Mrs Diertens says that we are taking a step in the right direction. But a first step can also be in the wrong direction. Critics say: if you do it already on child care I think it's too early, but if you start doing it on child care, do it right now and make it mandatory for all forms of childcare. That's how you cover the risk. Mrs Diertens now opts for parental freedom of choice, but that is not, of course, at the heart of the discussion. At the heart of the discussion is the protection of children who otherwise suffer dangerous diseases. Then you have to look at the general interest and not the freedom of choice of parents. If you are consistent, you should say: no one who has not been vaccinated will end up in child care. I wouldn't suggest that right now, but if you do something, it should go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u114	I think we are going to have another debate on this. First, we need to see how we can get that vaccination rate up. The Round Table has shown that information, information and personal convincing can still achieve a great deal. There is still a great deal to gain from this. It has not actually been proven that it leads to a higher vaccination rate if everyone is required to be vaccinated. The investigations are also contradictory. I think it is very good that we should first focus on the proactive attitude, on information and better information and conviction, as proposed by the Secretary of State. However, we must be prepared for the possibility of other options being discussed. D66 doesn't impose a taboo on anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u115	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u116	The Secretary of State says he wants to fight false information. That's an interesting thought. I'd like to hear more about that. Infection prevention extends far beyond the border. It is therefore important to see how other countries in Europe address this issue. During the round tables, the United Kingdom was discussed. This carries out an infection prevention policy that seems more proactive. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he views this policy and what lessons he draws from it for our policy. Another point that we can learn from is the low threshold in other countries. For example, look at the pharmacist. In many European countries, it plays a major role in information. In some countries pharmacists were even allowed to provide and administer certain vaccines, of course after an in-service training course. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. Fortunately, our children receive a large number of vaccines through the National Vaccination Programme. But not all diseases are included. Here too, information is of great importance. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a good look at the information on vaccinations outside the RVP? In his letter Further with vaccination, the Secretary of State announces various actions. One is the possibility that 16- and 17-year-olds who have not been vaccinated under the National Vaccination Programme will be given the opportunity to do so. We'll just call it a catch-up vaccination. Some young people, whose parents may have other ideas, can then decide on their health at the age of 16. I think that's a good measure, but couldn't it be a little more ambitious? Recently I spoke to someone who had come to the Netherlands. Her brothers and sisters, who were born here, did go through an RVP, but she and her mother didn't. For them, such a catch-up vaccination would have been an outcome. Both her mother and she would have liked that, but they were not summoned. Is the Secretary of State prepared, possibly together with JenV's colleague, to see how a catch-up vaccination can be used for promising newcomers? Mr. Chairman. The increasing risk of infection is a major problem. We owe it to our children to take responsibility now, because who thinks of tomorrow must do something today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ancient infectious diseases are so well combated that they are no longer visible. For example, we no longer see children with polio on the street. This is a good thing, but the downside is that the usefulness and necessity of vaccination are no longer on everyone's retina. The awareness that vaccination alongside clean drinking water is the most effective way to combat infectious diseases is falling. Fortunately, the latest RIVM reports show that the declining trend towards vaccination has stopped, but these are national figures. What about regional and local? Nationally, the BMR vaccination is 93.8%, but in the city centre of Utrecht it is only 90% and on Urk 58%. What does this mean, I ask the Secretary of State. What does this say about the national downward trend, which has stopped? Bad ghost stories are also spread over the Internet. The government doesn't get enough of that. In addition to biblebelters, there are more and more city dwellers who no longer enter. How will the Secretary of State reach them better? Does he create a well-findable online platform where the right information for doubting parents becomes available and ghost stories are refuted? The PVV Group supports the action points of the Secretary of State, but still has a few questions. Is there a programme of calamities when vaccination rates fall suddenly or only for certain infectious diseases? Is there a playbook ready if there's an outbreak going on abroad? Do we have enough vaccines in the fridge for an extra round of shots? Do we know how to reach the risk groups? And as for HPV vaccination, why not vaccinate in the last grade of primary school? We have a nice national vaccination program, but it's also very conservative. It takes years for a vaccine to be added. Countries around us, for example, do graft against chickenpox. In our country children have to suffer because it would not be lethal, but specialists assure us that some children end up in hospital every year. Apart from the pain, vesicles and scars in the face, this virus is also responsible for the very painful shingles at a later age. This must be enough to be included in the national vaccination programme and not to wait for it for years, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the other part of this debate, the meningococcal outbreak. The mortality rate for meningococcal infection is high, approximately 17%. Another part suffers permanent damage, such as amputation of limbs. And the disease is moving extremely fast. Are some still walking in the hospital, within a few hours they are already in intensive care. Only a few days does the bacteria need to do its devastating work. Of all age groups, teenagers are the most affected. That's where the death rate is at 27%, a quarter. Even if it doesn't happen many times a year, it's bizarre that we have to tell parents who lose their child about the fact that a vaccine has been available for quite some time. Fortunately it is now a catch-up, but that took a while. There are four years from the first signals to the end of the vaccination programme and so it is not yet fully available. Can't stocks be held? Why should purchasing via a time-consuming tender? Why does the Healthcare Institute also have to look at its effectiveness and apply strange financial limits? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for throwing this process overboard and coming up with a quick procedure, I ask. I've also been surprised at the coverage of RIVM vaccines. They were therefore not available for the target group of the 14-year-olds. In the summer of 2018 a part was withheld for holidaymakers. I find that irresponsible. In the event of an outbreak, sufficient vaccines should be available to all, to risk groups, children, the elderly, pregnant and holidaymakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u119	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the top ten of the biggest health threats worldwide is the antivax movement. The risk of infection is increasing because fewer people are being inoculated. The CDA finds the trend in recent years very worrying. Ironically, the success of vaccination reduces people's perception of the consequences of diseases, reducing the sense of urgency. I see I have an interruption right away. This has been a good opening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u121	Mrs Kuik now starts her contribution here, but this morning she also opened the debate in the newspaper. I read that she says 'no', she does not say 'no', she emphasizes that she weighs religious objections differently from those of the antivax movement. I should like to ask her to explain this further. Why? What else does she weigh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u122	If Mrs Ploumen has a moment's patience, I will come back to that in my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u123	Actually, I'd like to know by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mrs Ploumen!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr President, I am speaking about my own text and I shall return to it. Be patient! And if you don't get the answer, you can still...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u126	Mrs Ploumen, when Mrs Kuik is ready, you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u127	Then I will wallow in the confidence that you will give me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u128	You know I'm really watching that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u129	It can cause deaf, blindness, permanent brain damage or death: measles! You can become barren and paralyzed from polio or disabled for the rest of your life. And I can go on like this for a while. But the antivax propaganda is spinning, fake news too much. Many people's doubts are often not based on sound knowledge, and Professor Das also indicated at the round table. People google and run into things. The CDA wants the Secretary of State to focus on the communication of this time, helping parents to figure out important facts. A shot doesn't lead to autism, but a child can get sick for a while. Images and metaphors help. Make clear how disproportionate antivax stories are. Compare it with the following example: I saw on Google that bridges can collapse, so I prefer to let my children swim through the fast-flowing river. As you're hearing, a bizarre reasoning. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the Health and Youth Inspectorate can act more and harder on the deception of vaccination? Does the Secretary of State intend to monitor the effectiveness of the measures announced in his letter from the outset? Will the pharmacist also be involved in strengthening the role of professionals? Mr. Chairman. I don't see inoculations as something to doubt. I trust the doctors and experts and feel it as a sort of upgrade. Frankly, I also find it difficult to understand that you are exposing your children to life-threatening diseases and thereby increasing the risk for others. Then it sounded like a liberal thing to do. I get that primary reaction, but what exactly is that gonna solve? Parents are primarily responsible for the health of their children. Fundamental rights, such as the right to physical integrity and the inviolability of the body, do not just slide aside. In addition, the CDA is not sufficiently convinced of the effectiveness of a legal obligation. The antivax we have to deal with on fake news. But the religious group that doesn't vaccinate, we should just as well inform. This information will have to take place in a different way in order to be effective. That was my point. Last week, the World Health Organisation announced that there were a record number of measles cases in Europe in 2017. Diseases don't stop at borders. What action is the Secretary of State taking at European level to reduce the risk of infection?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u130	Mrs Kuik and I agree on many points. I think she was expecting that, too. But I did get put on a different footing by her statements in the newspaper this morning. I would like to have a further explanation of that. She says that she weighs the religious objections, the religious objections of people differently from the objections of the antivax movement. Does she agree with me that the effect is the same after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u131	Sure. Like I said, you need a different communication. The people who do not vaccinate on religious grounds therefore have different considerations. They do not doubt the effect of inoculations, which the antivaxers do, but say that a higher power has to do with it. So you have to communicate to them in a different way to have effect. That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u132	Does Mrs Kuik therefore agree with me that your child should not inoculate by appealing to religious considerations, let us say, should he be overwhelmed with criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u133	As I said myself, I don't find inoculations anything to doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u134	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u135	If Mrs. Kuik talks to someone who says "my God doesn't want me to inoculate my child," what does she say to that person?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u136	I can't force it. That is why it is good that the Secretary of State is looking at how good information can be provided so that we can help people make a good decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u137	I hear Mrs Kuik reject the possibility to proceed with an overall obligation to invoke fundamental rights, even before we have, in my view, identified all the pros and cons of it. In itself, I can imagine an appeal to fundamental rights, but I have the following question to ask Mrs Kuik. Children who have not been vaccinated also pose a risk to children who are not vaccinated. Is it not the case that the freedom of one end, where freedom, and therefore security, of another, is affected?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u138	What I said exactly was that I didn't just shove fundamental rights aside. When I look at RIVM's argument about its effectiveness, controllability and impact on people, I am not convinced that a legal obligation is sensible. Mr Veldman would like other countries to be looked at. I'm fine with investigating that, but you don't just shove fundamental rights aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u139	I am pleased to hear that Mrs Kuik also says that it is good to examine what further measures we can take so that we are prepared for a possible further reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u140	Please continue, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u141	Mr. Chairman. We have heard the poignant stories about, for example, Noa and Maurits, young people who have been ripped away by meningococcal bacteria. Good luck to their families. Respect that their parents tell their story. The National vaccination programme has recently been extended to include type W. Experts weigh different interests. The Health Council has given a negative opinion on the inclusion of meningococcals B. Can the Secretary of State explain why the Dutch children are not vaccinated for type B, whereas this happens in England, for example? If side effects are particularly uncertain for small children, is it an option to inoculate later, if they are older? Finally. Do the experts have sufficient capacity to scale up quickly? How does the Secretary of State look at the timeline: outbreak, determination of severity, ordering the vaccines and actually implementing them? How did the Ministry prepare for the Brexit when it comes to the availability of vaccines? Mr. Chairman. We can eradicate rotten diseases like measles together by vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u143	I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. Then we'll vote on one motion first. Then comes the order of business. The Secretary of State may then answer the questions raised by the Members of Parliament in the first term.
