ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on mayors threatened with death. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I actually wanted to give Mrs Laan-Geselschap the floor, but I see Mrs Buitenweg at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I have a point of order. So before the elections, of course, it is actually a week of male plans. We often see this in the newspapers. Last Monday I read in De Telegraaf something very relevant to today's debate. I read that the Minister said that within five years the number of mayors threatened must be reduced from a quarter to a maximum of 10%. That was a promise. And also that the maximum prison sentence imposed on public servants should be doubled from two to four years. That's relevant information. I looked bad in my mailbox, but I didn't actually read anything about it. I find it very strange that I have to buy De Telegraaf in order to prepare myself for a debate here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u3	And the point of order is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u4	The point of order is that I would ask you to address the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u5	I'm looking at you, Mr. Secretary. Why is that? It is important, however, that information is sent to the Chamber in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u6	I understand Mrs Buitenweg's point. Let me apologize for that. I responded publicly a month ago to the points that had appeared in a previous article in the newspaper. This was an interview with Mr Buma of the CDA, who had made these suggestions. This reaction was in the context of the Machiavelliezing in response to the award given to the threatened mayors. I must confess that what I said was no different than a repetition of what I said a month ago. "Plannets of males" I will be attracted, but it was really just a repetition of what I said before. I'm sorry if that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u7	But are there any suggestions? Are there any data, information that should be shared with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u8	No, a month ago I responded to the idea that it was indeed considered sensible to increase the penalty rate and why, but there is no concrete plan for that at all. I also said, a month ago, that if I left as a minister, we would have reduced the threats against mayors very substantially.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u9	It is actually a matter of the Minister's opinion and what he thinks of the case. There's no plan or proposal, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u10	I understand now that it's not from last Monday, it's from a month ago. That only makes the situation worse, doesn't it? Then the Minister has had a month to write a letter about his plans. What the minister wants to do will directly affect the position of the threatened mayors. That is the subject we are going to discuss today. What am I supposed to base my input on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u11	The Minister apologizes for this. Mr. Van Raak, you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u12	Yes. If the Minister had given a lecture on this subject a month ago, he should have informed us then. He said he'd come up with stricter legislation. He wants to raise the maximum prison sentence from two to four years. And he comes up with proposals to take more money and possessions from serious criminals. I would just like to emphasise why we in the Chamber want to be informed. The moment the minister makes statements in the newspaper, we get a call. Then we are asked what we think of that. But we don't have those plans. We haven't been able to study them. We can't give an opinion on that. We can't do our job like that. What's the situation now? Until recently, the newspaper was informed and then the Chamber. That was already very difficult, but now the Ministry of Justice has become so bold that the Chamber is simply not even informed anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u13	All right, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u14	We can't do our job like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u15	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u16	And I think the Minister's feeble excuse is rather thin. He should be ashamed of himself, because this is an affront to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u17	No, no, no, Mr. Van Raak!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. The thing about taking it is in a letter to your room. So I would like to say this again here, once again, through you, President-in-Office of the Council, to Mr Van Raak. My apologies apply to the entire Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u20	I did that in that context a month ago and that wasn't... I understand the reproach of "males and schemes" anyway. But the thing about taking it is in a letter to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u21	Good. Thank you. In any case, then, this point is clear and I hope that it will be different in the future. Otherwise, we have a sort of order debate in every debate, and that is not good. People are not waiting for that, at least not for this kind of discussion. Mrs Laan-Geselschap, I think you're next on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Chairman. Mayors threatened with death: I can't get used to it and I don't want to get used to it either. It is quite absurd that there are people who are trying to threaten mayors or other local administrators with death. The mayor's office must be concerned with the safety of the inhabitants of his or her congregation and not with his or her own safety or, worse still, with that of his or her family. It used to occur that a resident was angry with the mayor, because his favorite cafe was temporarily closed or because at the fair instead of just drinking out of glasses just from plastic cups. Then you complained about it on a birthday or at your neighbor's house, and that's what it was. Now it is true that people feel exalted above the law, above the norms and values that we all share. Apparently, the mayor did such a good job in these cases that they really pissed off the criminals. Classy, we say. Class mayor, that you've done your job well. Class of sticking your neck out to crush undermining in your congregation. And once again class that you have improved the safety and viability of and for your inhabitants. As a VVD, we fully support this. Mr. Chairman. Last October's NRC Next listed threats against local drivers. It is a laundry list of the most terrible actions directed against those who are committed to democracy. It ranges from setting a vehicle on fire to firing a house. We are therefore pleased that money has been released to tackle undermining. We'll talk about that again tomorrow at a general meeting. There's no shortage of attention to undermining, but mayors have nothing to pay attention to. Mayors have been helped to stop these threats. It needs to be tackled at the source, and you do it by punishing the perpetrators harder. The Minister, as we have just heard, came up with the idea the day before yesterday to increase the penalties for threats to drivers from two to four years. The way, we'll talk about that again later, but it's good that he did. There just needs to be enough capacity in the investigation services to be able to follow up on these matters. A question to the Minister: how do mayors experience this? Do they feel sufficiently supported by the Ministry? Mr. Chairman. As long as mayors continue the fight against organised crime, we must bear in mind that there are criminals who think they can express these threats. It is a good thing that the Ministry of the Interior has given a hand-out, in which appropriate measures have been drawn up. This makes it clear who is responsible for what. For example, the police are responsible for the implementation of measures in public space and the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service for personal security. However, the municipality also has a responsibility. Not only the mayor, but certainly his or her family must be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mrs. Kuik, you had a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u24	On second thought, Mrs. Laan-Geselschap might find it comfortable to finish her story first. I can also put my question at the end of her speech. Then I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u25	Okay. I thought I was giving the floor here, but you're giving yourself the floor when it's convenient? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u26	You can see how it is with the prestige of public administration! So far, the security of the home and, above all, its costs have been discussed in the city council. The Board shall make credit available. That doesn't feel right, Mr. Chairman. I want to prevent criminals from getting information about the security of the mayor's home or his or her family's. I have a question for the Minister. Could the King's Commissioner play a role in coordinating home security? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Not only the drivers are on the frontline in tackling the undermining, but also civil servants are often confronted with this. Imagine, you work at a small municipality in the licensing, supervision and enforcement department. You live in the same village where you work. The village criminal needs a building permit to expand his business premises. This village criminal is also a sponsor of the team in which your son plays football. Well, be strong enough not to grant this permit. I can imagine that this is particularly difficult. We must therefore also consider the protection of civil servants. That is why my colleague Van den Bos is here today. How do we handle this, I'll ask the Minister. How can we ensure that they can carry out their work in a normal way? Mr President, I come to my final point. If any damage is done to the mayor's property, for example, in setting a fire to his car, he's gonna have to report the damage to the perpetrator, but what if the perpetrator isn't known? Then the mayor must rely on private insurance and his own associated risk. That's not part of the risks of the trade. Does the Minister share this view? I'm gonna finish up. Mayors are the men and women who work 24/7 with the inhabitants of their congregation. They do everything they can to put their congregation on the map. They must do the job without these fools being able to scare the mayors. We stand alongside the mayors who fight organized crime and we do not give way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mrs Van der Laan gives a very graphic picture of the problem, but, at the same time, increasing the penalty rate does not make much sense if we do not know how to catch or stop the perpetrators. Asking the question is also answering him: do you think that we now have enough capacity to meet that challenge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mrs Kuik knows as well as I do that the capacity of the police is a complicated issue. We support this cabinet. This cabinet is using extra money to free up additional capacity for that. That this is a difficult point, I fully share with you, and the concerns you have about it. And I don't think we solved it tomorrow either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u29	But do you understand that one of the mayors is sighing: again tough words of increases in punishment! Meanwhile, an unsub who went out with grenades and kalashnikov rifles has been sentenced to one month probation. Moreover, capacity is often lacking. A third point is that many mayors have asked for a lot of legislation, including the Brabant Act, while there is hardly any such legislation. So I repeat my question: does...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u30	...Mrs. Laan-Geselschap...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u31	... Laan-Selkschap. We sometimes say "lane." Does Mrs Laan think that the cabinet is now doing enough to ensure that we actually catch the perpetrators, that we undermine them, that we take them out the wind and that we do so seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u32	The honourable Member knows how to put three questions in one question. I always think that's good, so compliments for that. I always believe in the separation of powers, so I am not going to make any statements here about what a judge does with his or her ability to judge a person, although I can sometimes do a sigh about that. But in this Chamber, we attach great importance to that divorce. You're also asking if more should happen. Yes, I agree with you very much. That is why we are here today and are going to try to find the solutions for which there is a broad majority. And your third question was whether we should pick up more people, yes, I agree with you and whether there is a lack of capacity. I would not call it a defect, but there is indeed a problem with capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. Where we used to think that the mayor was mostly a connection to the city, someone from the 100-year celebrations and the ribbons, we now often talk about threats with guns and grenades, we talk about safehouses and flights abroad, about not being able to do your job in a normal way because you need security. I think everyone here in this house agrees that that's unacceptable. This applies to all politicians, all directors and all those who work in this country to protect order and security. And the examples are very clear. That is why it is logical, for example, that the Machiavelli Prize has been awarded symbolically to all those mayors who, like Jos Wienen, are working day in and day out to guard that security. The question isn't whether we mind, because we're very sorry. I talk to these mayors all the time. The question is how we can best help all these mayors and combat the undermining that is taking place. I have a number of questions about that. Of course, I agree that the penalty should go up, I agree that jail time should be the measure and I also agree with the ideas about increasing the curatel. At the same time, however, I ask the Minister how real this increase in the penalty rate is now when we see that often very limited penalties are imposed. I mentioned the example of the mayor who was seriously threatened with guns and grenades, but who was only subject to a one-month suspended sentence. Does it make sense to increase the penalty rate, or does it require more? Mr. Chairman. Punishment, imprisonment, community service and fines are always at the other end of where the act has already been committed. What has this cabinet actually done to stop the undermining and organised crime? EUR 100 million has been earmarked. That's occasional money, not structural money. A package of legislative measures has been announced, but only opium legislation is still within reach. All this other legislation, on information sharing, on the adaptation of the Bibob, is not yet in place, and I understand that the process is very viscous. There is a lack of capacity: there are too few police officers. There's a lack of capacity at the FIOD. The tax authorities need to reduce even further. While we are making 18.5 billion dollars in drug trafficking, only 171 million criminal assets have been taken away in the last year. That's a joke. So how do we expect us to actually stop criminals, that they will be seriously affected by a power of public administration and by security services that can actually do something, if they are not really affected in any way? Because there are, in general terms, only two types of threats. You got the type of crazy guys. In general, it concerns people who are angry, for example around an asylum-seekers' centre. But for the most part, the threats just come from real criminals. They come from a trailer park, from a criminal motorcycle gang or from another organization; that's about it. You're gonna have to hit those guys where it hurts. You're gonna have to break their structures. This requires real money, capacity, legislation and action. And most of all, I'm just really worried about the latter. Those same mayors are complaining about who we all have to stand up for. There's a complaint from the state's attorney's office. The judiciary is complaining. It is said that we have too little power in the house to actually make sure that we hit criminals, with the ultimate aim of better securing mayors. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yes. Mrs Den Boer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u36	Well, a very nice report from Pro Facto was published in 2017. An analysis has been made of the threats posed by mayors, public administrators, journalists and so on. This shows that a quarter of the threats to mayors are actually related to crime and undermining. So how could Mrs. Kuik find a solution to the total number of threats if the image is so massively diffuse, if the phenomenon of threats to mayors is so diffuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u37	The quarter related to crime is the most serious category. Because we are talking about safehouses and everything that comes with them. It's about tough criminals you're gonna have to fight with everything you've got. This really requires more money and capacity, and faster legislation. Otherwise they will remain with their 18.5 billion, the money that goes on in the drug circuit, the smiling third, and we are nowhere. Then about the other 75%: in part it is sometimes an incident, in part it is sometimes a confused person. In any case, however, it calls for police capacity and detection to be increased there as well. Because if you don't know where the threat comes from, if you can't track down perpetrators because you have no capacity and can't detect them, then you can impose a penalty until you weigh one on us, but if no one is arrested or then no one gets a punishment, that will of course have no effect at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u38	There comes from the undermining fund, which you mentioned, an investment in the capacity of police and justice. Furthermore, there is investment in knowledge and skills, particularly in the field of financial detectives. Isn't that gonna help at all, Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u39	Every bit helps, but it's too little. I told you, 171 million is now being taken away. That's falling, because we're coming from 400 million. 18.5 billion is earned in the drug business. You know, that really calls for more people and more priority. We're focusing a lot on small drug criminals right now, while we're letting the big boys walk. I'm not making that up, because of course I'm just listening to some cops, D.A., FIOD, IRS and mayors tell me. In preparation for this debate and for tomorrow's debate, I asked the last group where the main concerns lie. They all say: it's all nitty-gritty, in normal Dutch: it's all too small, there's got to be really harder action, especially when it comes to taking away financial assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u41	I note that there is investment in police and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u42	But no structural money!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u43	We need time to see if these investments will change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u44	You know, you're lucky to have what you've got. But don't be so proud, it's not structural money. For years it has been asked whether this can be arranged. Now that things are getting better economically...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u46	...and 4 billion goes to companies and tax cuts, you could have said:...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u47	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u48	... we allocate a structural amount to combat undermining.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested on 20 March last year, almost a year ago. The situation has not improved, unfortunately. On the contrary. Think of the heavily secured mayor Wienen van Haarlem to date. In February he received the Machiavelli Prize and thus symbolizes all threatened mayors in the Netherlands. Prices have been awarded for better reasons. Undermining crime requires a lot of attention and capacity. The Minister speaks of 'a serious and persistent problem which, unfortunately, is becoming rooted in our society'. The Future Agenda Undermining sets out guidelines which include an effective and future-proof approach to undermining crime. The coalition agreement also states a number of things about this. All fine words, but where are the deeds? The threat to mayors is nothing new. As early as 2011, Mayor Jacobs of Helmond had to go into hiding when the police got information that criminals wanted to kill him after closing a coffee shop. Examples too much. The town hall in Waalre burned down in 2012, after two vehicles had drove in. The mayor of Voerendaal has been threatened with a firearm. At the end of 2017, the mayor of Waalre is threatened with death. The exercise of violence and the expression of threats against mayors must be severely punished. Violence is reprehensible and unacceptable in all cases. But threats to the rule of law also undermine democracy and the rule of law. The one-off budget of the 100 million undermining fund is totally inadequate. A structural budget is required, to be financed from the illegally acquired assets taken from criminals. A certain percentage of this should go back to the municipalities to tackle undermining. Mr. Chairman. The police are doing what they can, not only in the real security of threatened mayors, but also in disrupting facilitators. I refer to the large-scale police action on 5 March. According to the police, behind the doors of haunted houses is a whole criminal world: money laundering and drug-related crime. But the police can't do it alone. Criminal law is a long and costly process, so we also need to look at other possibilities. The fact is that the mayor's position has changed into the current security landscape. The mayor is getting more and more powers. I agree, but I can't let the mayor become some kind of crime fighter. A mayor must be visible and approachable as a civilian father. That part's gonna get in the way. So a few questions to the minister. First of all... How far is the so-called undermining legislation, which aims to ensure that various government organisations can share information internally and externally and not be hindered by privacy obstacles? Second question. Is the Minister prepared to implement in the so-called 2017 trial of legislation of the Regional Mayors the legislative amendments proposed therein in various laws? Another question. During a symposium on undermining crime, the chairman of the Dutch Association of Banks said that banks want to strengthen their gatekeeper function. In this context, they could verify NAW data in the Basic Registration Persons and use the bsn number to identify customers and would like access to the so-called UBO registry that includes the ultimate stakeholders of companies. What does the Minister think about this? Mr President, I shall conclude. Organised crime is heavy and persistent and deserves nothing less than a tough approach on all fronts, through tax, social services, administrative law and criminal law. A bouncer, Mr. Chairman. "Strenger punishment." Where have we heard that before? This is symbolic policy if no lower limit is set, namely a minimum legal penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u52	Ouder-Amstel, Emmen, Wierden, Staphorst, Koggenland, Gooise Meren, Zoetermeer, Rotterdam, Soest, Utrecht, Zaltbommel, Zaanstad, Woerden, Laarbeek, Helmond, Waalre, Gilze-Rijen, Rucphen and Haarlem. The list of places where mayors have been threatened is incredibly long. And these are just the cases we know. Everyone in this room hates that. We all find these threats terrible, because they undermine our society, our freedom and our democracy. It's not just about mayors, it's about aldermen, about councilmen, about civil servants. We all agree on that. Where things are getting a little far apart is the analysis. My first question to the ministers is this. If people are threatened, do they have to report them themselves or are they being reported for them? That seems like a small thing, but it's personal to people. The minister came up with a plan last Monday; we had to read it in the paper. He wants to double the maximum penalty for threatening public servants from two to four years. A number of Members of Parliament have already said: we must be very careful not to make it a symbolic policy. This kind of punishment increase only makes sense if we also arrest and prosecute people. And there's a very big problem there. We've been cutting back a lot. Kabinets have been cutting back on police, customs and detectives. The drug trade, and also the crime associated with it, is increasing. The criminal justice system is failing. The chain of punishment is jammed. What we are now seeing in the Netherlands is undermining from a parallel drug economy. Bribery comes from it, like black money on the housing market, drug crime and even liquidations. A lot of drug dealers are being dismantled. That is good, but that makes no sense if the networks behind it are maintained, if the big bad guys get away with it, if the mafia can root in our communities. Then there's no point. We need to dismantle that parallel economy. For that, we will really have to put an end to austerity and invest in police, detectives and customs and ensure that drugs no longer enter the municipalities. Let the FIOD, the detectives and other organisations work together as inspections, so that these money flows and networks can be better identified and addressed. The minister bets on it, but with €800,000, while every euro you invest earns itself well. There's no better investment than in a financial detective. Every euro you invest in a financial detective you get back 100,000 times. Why are there so few detectives? Also prevent you from making bizarre purchases with black money, such as houses. You now see a limit of €10,000, where an entrepreneur has to report it when a transaction is made. It's not gonna happen enough. Banks don't do it. Why aren't banks doing it? Because it costs money. Banks don't comply with the law, we've seen them lately. Finally, one point I would like to highlight very briefly is the position of the mayor. I think the mayor's position has also become more vulnerable by our policies. We always see the mayor as a civilian father, the first citizen of a city or village, standing above the parties. But because we have often moved things from criminal law to administrative law and so many administrative measures are being taken, the mayor has also become more and more a crime fighter. This citizen's father is now on the frontline in the fight against crime. I think it belongs more to the police, to the district attorney and to the judge. I'm curious about the Minister's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is a good thing that we are talking here about the great concerns that we are concerned about the threats that many of our mayors face. It is also good that we radiate so much unity at that point. Some of the mayors would even receive very serious threats on a regular basis. That is unacceptable, because it affects them and their families very personally, because it restricts them in their freedom, and because it scares them. It is also unacceptable because, alongside a human being, a mayor is an important institution of our rule of law. A threat to a mayor is therefore an attack on the rule of law and democracy, as Mr Van Raak has just said. I would therefore like to say, on behalf of my group, that we are very much behind those mayors and that we sympathise with them when it actually gets under their skin. Mr. Chairman. It has already been said by several people: the reason for the threats is very diverse. I read that most of it was due to the arrival of asylum seekers' centres in recent years. That is correct, I would like to ask the Minister first. This may not be entirely consistent with the prevailing image, but that is what the mayors in Rijssen-Holten, Rosmalen, Ede, Gouda and Hoogeveen have been through. There have also been death threats to several mayors for other reasons, for example because of the decision to shoot deer in the Oostvaardersplassen, or because of the prohibition of traditional New Year's Fires. It is better known that serious threats sometimes also follow in response to the closure of drug houses and the harder action against organised crime. I can very well imagine that the latter category is even more frightening, because it is afraid that it will be more real, that more action will be taken. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the Minister whether the number of threats has increased in recent decades. That's my impression, but isn't it? And have they changed in the last few years? Has that been investigated, as well as the threats of aldermen and city council members? If there is an increase, does this have to do with the role of the mayor, who is indeed changing? We are increasingly seeing that the mayor not only maintains public order, but also has a more central role in tackling crime, as a kind of crime fighter. While in criminal law the prosecutors and judges have a less prominent profile, the mayor is quickly vulnerable, because it is also very visible when acting through administrative law. How do the Ministers see these developments? Mr. Chairman. The Minister said in De Telegraaf that he wants to increase the penalty for threatening mayors. Well, we'll look forward to that exact proposal. My main point is that increasing the chances of getting caught is at least as important as higher penalties. Colleagues said that before. What's the chance of getting caught? How many people have been arrested and convicted of threatening a mayor in the last year? How does that stand in relation to the number of threats? Because it's very nice, being so tough on crime, but when hardly anyone is convicted, it's not a very strong story. So what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that the threats get much more follow-up? I think that is important for our democracy. I think it is also important for those mayors themselves to see that a threat is always followed up. Is that what's happening now? That seems to be the most important priority for my group. Hopefully it will be for the ministers as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Chairman. My support goes to all the mayors, to those who are committed to our democracy, our security and our society, and must pay for it with their own security and freedom. The fact that mayors are threatened with death is unacceptable to me. That's what I said in my maiden speech, and that's what I'm saying now. Fortunately, there are civilians around their mayor. Ministers are in the clear and have already announced a number of measures. I'm happy about that. At the same time, there is a lot of talk about measures, and I would like to talk about the problem. Because you can't control a problem if you don't know where it comes from, if you don't know exactly what it's like. We already have several investigations, and I would actually like to ask the Minister to go through that one time. 'Cause what about that integral picture of those threats? I want to see that fully served to the Chamber, not some kind of salami. I would like a response from the Minister, not specifically to the salami, but to that integral picture. How are the mayors themselves actually informed about the threats hanging in the air? Are they always up to speed? Who is responsible for the decision to take action at some point? This, of course, also affects the system. When is it actually decided that someone needs to be protected? And in a broader sense: how does the cabinet guarantee the protection of public administration? The Minister for the Interior has already taken a number of concrete measures to this end, and I congratulate him on that. But how do we ensure that the Ministers of the Interior and Justice also work complementaryly together and strengthen each other? Mr. Chairman. Crazy it is sometimes said that the role of the mayor has been transformed from ribbon cutter to crimefighter. It's been said before. I wonder if this has anything to do with the mayor's shifting role concept. Because not only the security problems are diverse; also the mayor's instruments to fulfil his or her task of public order are increasingly diverse, and the toolbox is increasingly full: from preventive search to camera surveillance, closing of shopping premises, the Drinking and Horeca Act, the Opium Act, the Bibob Act and the Housing Burdens Act. These all offer the mayor handles to carry out his or her task. Mr. Chairman. Then I find it interesting to read in the newspaper that the Minister is proposing to double the penalties for threatening mayors. That sounds like a tough language, but what remains of it was asked about earlier, the letter on this proposal, I ask the Minister for Justice and Security. Higher penalties have a frightening effect, yes. Several mayors call it a nice signal. At the same time, the same mayors say: it is not up to the minister to determine the penalties, because that is up to the judge. In addition, security is largely in the prevention of crime by focusing on prevention and education. Higher penalties only make sense if the chances of getting caught increase, because a high chance of getting caught gives people the chance to keep to the rules or not. And what's the deal with the chance of getting caught? That's what I'm asking the Minister. How many of the perpetrators who threatened mayors are actually caught in the scraps? What punishment have they been punished for? And how effective have these penalties been against, for example, repetition? I see a few Members have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u57	Yeah, me too, but you're almost ready for a round-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u58	I have one more paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u59	You've got 15 seconds. I'd say, "Make up that time."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u60	Very good. Then I'm gonna fill it up. As far as D66 is concerned, therefore, the extension of powers is not the answer. The answer is a resilient government and reliable cooperation between partners, such as the national and local government, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. But this phenomenon of threatened mayors demands above all a resilient society, where people look out for each other, talk to each other and stand around their mayor. Let us, as the House of Representatives, join in this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u62	Those were fine last words, but I cannot follow the colleague's analysis. She now pretends she doesn't literally say it as if the threats arose from the fact that the mayor has been given several powers to bring about the security of our society. Surely it's not the fact that there are more powers? It is simply that there are more criminals in our society, that crime has increased and that the harshness of crime has increased. You can't blame the instruments for that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u63	Well, you say that very nicely, but you also know, for example, the infamous article in the NRC, where exactly this headline was used: the mayor has evolved from ribbon-blinking to someone who is fighting crime in his or her congregation, so to crimefighter. I am not at all happy with that word, because I think the mayor has a lot of tasks and roles. Not only do I think that, but I do. But if this mayor is primarily concerned with controlling the problems of crime and public order in his or her municipality and is manifesting himself at that point, then it may create a threat if the mayor is closing down his or her shopping premises. This has also been mentioned by mayors themselves in interviews: this may increase the threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u64	Then I shall analyse again that, with all due respect, there is talk of a procedural liberal, because you are questioning the process, but the problem remains the same. Our society is not getting safer because you think that the process should be different. I would very much like to hear what D66 says about that as an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u65	There's no trial liberale here; there's a social liberale here. This means that D66 believes that there should be an integrated approach to this phenomenon, which is based on instruments that are being rolled out from the Home Affairs side, and that there are already a lot of them, such as the Network Weerbaar Bestuur and trainings given to mayors and aldermen, but also, of course, what I would like to call the repressive side. But that repressive side also falls apart for me, for example, in the strengthening of information exchange. It must, of course, be very clear what signals are coming from the municipality that can contribute to the threat of a mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mrs Den Boer indicated that much must be done. I agree, but I do not understand one aspect of her speech. She said that judges are about the punishments and we are not, but isn't it true that the legislator with a very high level of punishment determines that there is a high criminality and that this is a direction given to our judges?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mrs Van Toorenburg does not understand my point and I do not understand her question. I have tried to argue that I think that it is not so much a matter for us here to determine the penalties but that it is up to the judge to impose the penalty. That punishment can already be shaped in all kinds of ways. That's community service or jail time. Someone could just disappear for days in jail for these kinds of threats. You also know that this has happened in the past. We therefore believe that there should be no symbolic policy, but that it is up to the judge and, of course, the entire chain around it to determine what punishment is appropriate for the person who has made the death threat of a mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u68	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We decide what punishment someone should get. In an individual case, the judge will weigh up what he concretely comes up with, but we decide whether someone should be given community service. We say that there should be no community service in the event of a serious abuse of violence or of sex. That's just legislation. We also decide when a very high sentence is appropriate when a mayor is threatened and the sentence is doubled when police officers are attacked. That's a very clear direction for the judge, isn't it? Mrs Den Boer is acting like we're not talking about that at all. That is what we are very much about!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u69	The Second Chamber is a legislator, yes. We therefore, of course, determine the framework within which the law must be implemented. But it is up to the judge to weigh the evidence and also to judge in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This is important. I would like to stress that we are discussing an important issue today. Everyone points out the importance of this. It is of course bizarre that death threats have become as normal as cutting a ribbon or congratulating a diamond couple. That is the shocking reality that is evident from an article in the Eindhovens Dagblad that de facto gave rise to this debate. The mayors who have spoken in this debate give a staggering picture of the threats and the threat measures that are needed. This is unacceptable. I think that we, as a Chamber, always have to think about it, and that is what we are doing today. This calls for investment. The cabinet did it. This also requires creative solutions. My group would like to work on that. We must recognise, however, that I heard an interrupting debate on this subject, which has to do with the success of our approach, the integrated approach. In addition to criminal law, it also has an administrative branch that makes our mayors very much in the front line. We think that both of these plates should be more tightly chessed. On the one hand, we must realise that we may make the mayor vulnerable, because he will be the face of the undermining approach. Maybe sometimes that's too much for some, but de facto it is. On the other hand, criminal law is also an important toolbox that we must not forget. That makes it necessary to play chess on both the plates. Before I get there, there is one more important aspect that needs to be addressed. We should also consider the strength of our society, which we see in these problems. We have all seen the massive statements of support, including Jos Wienen. The mayors of Brabant also indicate that there are often anonymous reports of residents of their municipality. That's fantastic inspiring to see. My group believes that it is important to name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u72	In fact, I very much agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg's argument that administrative law, combined with criminal law, cannot be ruled out in order to tackle crime and undermining. At the same time, I am concerned because I see that there are all kinds of retreating movements and that there is also naivety. People sometimes think we can go back to the time when the mayor doesn't have an important role in that. I would like to ask the CDA colleague to reflect on this. Does she share those concerns? How do we stop us from getting some kind of fight back? I know, for example, that the Council of State is still being asked for advice. But I don't want to go back. We have to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u73	Thank you for the interruption, which gives me the opportunity to reflect on that for a moment. I think we are very much in agreement. Both of these things are important. We don't want to go back. We do not want to get away from the integrated approach. It's not for nothing that Al Capone's been knocked down by taxes. We sometimes see that our criminal law is powerless to deal with certain issues. Then administrative law is very functional and important. We put our mayors in the wind, even if it's a triangle. I'd like to take a look at that. At the same time, I think that we should not think that we are only doing so because our criminal law is supposedly failing. At the congress of the University of Groningen more members from the Chamber were present and that was mentioned by Tops. It cannot be that the Chamber accepts that we choose administrative law because criminal law is no longer adequate. It can't be! It's also criminal. That is why it is important for the Minister to state that we must pay attention to each other in terms of punishment. I will come and talk to you about that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u74	I conclude that we agree. Criminal law failure must never be an excuse to merely enforce administrative law. At the same time, you still need more administrative law in conjunction with criminal law. I'd like to call you to keep your back straight. I'm your ally in this. Make sure we don't... I think that is important, Mr President. Looks like small beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u75	No, I always find the proverbs you use special.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u76	That's my ghost. This is a very serious subject. I've been calling this as long as I've been in the room. Above all, let us not go back to the discussion, but let us look at how administrative law and criminal law can function as closely as possible. Make sure this is not manned in all kinds of high hypothetical and philosophical discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u77	It is indeed not a small beer; we have joined forces with each other in a whole new spirit. Let us put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u78	That's good. Please continue, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u79	So we have criminal law and administrative law next to each other. Let's take a look at criminal law. I think it is wise for the Minister to propose that the penalty be doubled. This also has to do, for example, with the fact that pre-trial detention would come into view. We fully support him and we can only embrace those plans. We're just wondering if we don't need it anymore. My group chairman has already indicated that we need to consider whether we need another crime, a new one, in our Code of Criminal Law. In fact, a threat to the mayor and threatening a town hall is about sabotaging the public administration. For example, we have an increase in police penalties in the performance of a function. That will be annoying because they are doing so. If a town hall is attacked, no building will be attacked. No, our democracy is under attack. For example, we also have provisions that say that there is a very high penalty for disrupting this sitting of the House of Representatives. There is a very high penalty on the division of a city council that is in session. Should we not look at a special provision for mayors, because someone who threatens a mayor is de facto threatening our democratic state of law? That's the question I'm asking the Cabinet. Then there's administrative law. We see that the mayor is in the wind; he sometimes has to protect himself. I think it's an interesting analysis of D66 and the VVD to see who has what role in that security now. At the same time, we also note that all kinds of costs must be incurred for this security. My question is whether they will be passed on sufficiently to those who are protecting them. Is that possible? Is that being used up enough? Finally, Mr President. The question of undermining is often discussed. Let me be very clear. Threatening our mayors and in their wake our aldermen is de facto undermining, as far as we're concerned. That also means that any creative solution that we have, whether it is about increasing penalties or looking for a special definition of crime, is one of the measures that I hope we will be able to get through our Parliament at a rapid pace. The same applies to investments in Justice and Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. We ask every mayor in the country to swear or promise to be faithful to the Constitution at the time of his accession, to observe laws and to fulfil all duties as mayor in all conscience. With this oath and the powers that ensue, mayors will be put in the spotlight as a citizen's mother or father, the figurehead of the municipality, chairman of the city council, maintainer of public order, but also more and more as a crime fighter. Unfortunately, we see the shadow side of those spotlights. Mayors who stick their necks out for a safe city or the reception of asylum seekers in their congregation, face threats, sometimes even death threats, have to hide or even flee abroad. The Machiavelli Prize therefore rightly went to the threatened mayor, also as a charge against the phenomenon affecting the roots of our democracy. The award was symbolically received by Mayor Jos Wienen. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union also likes to express its appreciation and admiration for the mayors and the work they do every day. Actions are needed to ensure this. It is a good thing that the cabinet, especially the rulers of the Interior and Justice, is making serious work of this. Earlier, we spoke with the Minister of the Interior about measures to achieve a more appropriate legal instrument for the mayors. Can the Minister inform us about the progress of this? Mr. Chairman. We have taken note, indeed through the newspaper, of the Minister of Justice's intention to double the penalties for threatening mayors. That is what we agree with, but when can we look forward to these proposals? Mr. Chairman. Then file a threat report. Can the Minister provide insight into how often threats are reported? How often do you really manage to prosecute? Can the Minister also indicate whether the possibility of declaring an injunction is being used? That is possible to prove rather than a real threat. How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. When I speak to mayors, I hear driven people who do not let themselves get out of the field, but who do worry about their role and shifting responsibilities. Can the cabinet take account of the balance between these roles? First of all, they are a citizen's father or citizen's mother, maintainer of public order, but they are increasingly positioned as a crime fighter. Does the Cabinet with the Christian Union consider that the fight against organised crime is primarily a task of the Public Prosecutor as a specialised body, with a criminal court who is closely monitoring that the borders of the rule of law are not being crossed? Does the Cabinet also consider that administrative law should be supportive of criminal law? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The regional mayors want more powers in the announced Undermining Act, for example the possibility to close a building if weapons are present. That wish is very explainable and understandable, but it is also very far-reaching and far-reaching. How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one point. At the time when there is cause for preventive security of, for example, the house of a mayor or an alderman, municipal administrators must ask the city council for permission to finance it. That's understandable, but I also think it's a vulnerable point. Is it possible to place the weighing-up in this type of case very specific and precarious with the King's Commissioner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Something's whispering. I can read it, suspend for 15 minutes. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u83	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr President, thank you. I start by saying that any threat to a mayor is totally unacceptable to this cabinet and I think for anyone who feels connected to our society. It is not part of the business either, as I say explicitly in reply to Mrs Laan. Together with the Home Office colleague, I stand in front of those mayors and the Public Prosecutor and the police do the same. Fortunately, the mayor in most places in the Netherlands can just bike to the town hall. However, that should be self-evident to all mayors. Unfortunately, this is not the case. For example, today the inhabitants of Haarlem know when the mayor is at City Hall, because then there are armed men running around the Grand Place for security. It can and should not be the case that we get used to it. This is why, in recent years, the Ministries of Justice and Security and the Home Affairs have paid a great deal of attention to promoting administrative integrity and have taken all kinds of measures to strengthen the resilience of local government in all respects. Threats may come from different angles. Mayors tell us that their involvement in tackling undermining crime at least has an impact on their sense of security. A quarter of the mayors in the Netherlands were once threatened with criminal intent. My colleague's letter from June last year contained all these statistics from the monitor. In reply to Mrs Buitenweg's question, it is true that a few years ago there was a clear peak in the context of threats related to the opening or establishment of azc's, but that is no longer the main cause. Mr. Chairman. I want to go to a situation where mayors can safely cross the street. If there is a threat, appropriate measures must be taken, security measures based on the threat situation. You, as a Chamber, can appeal to me at any time for an integral fight against undermining the administrative instruments. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go check on the questions. I think it's okay to start with the point of punishment. In the hope of taking some of the sting out of it, I would like to say to your Chamber that, before the May partsession, I will come up with a detailed letter in which I will go into more detail on that point. In any case, I would like to say that the increase in penalties is not just a question of deterrent effect. It is also intended to punish someone in proportion to the suffering suffered by those concerned or by society. Satisfaction. I will also explain in more detail in this letter that I believe that the criminal threat needs to be reviewed in terms of punishment. Mr President, just in these days, please excuse me for a potentially threatening Brexit for anglicism, but it has become a business model. It's become part of the criminal enterprise. When it comes to the proportionality of what is being caused by it and what is being achieved by it in relation to its punishment, we really need to increase the level of punishment. This also in order to prevent a person from re-socializing the seriousness of the fact committed, or to take the appropriate time to try to re-socialize someone. I therefore come to the Chamber for the May recess with a detailed letter on this matter. I'm just gonna grab some of these criminal elements. Mr Van Raak asked: do mayors have to report themselves or is that being done for them? A mayor can report himself or may be reported by the employer, in this case the government. It is also possible to report it under number, but I would like to stress that it is also very important that mayors actually make that report. One of the points of action that I myself have is to work with my colleague on a programme to increase the willingness of mayors to report. In the monitor sent to your Chamber last year, you will see that in a very large number of cases mayors decide not to press charges. In any case, we believe that we should promote the possibility for mayors to report in a safe and proper manner. Only then will we be able to track down and bring to justice offenders, and we will also be able to get a good picture of how it is all divided precisely in terms of backgrounds and causes. The question by Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Van Raak and Mrs Den Boer about the chance of getting caught is more difficult. An effective approach requires a broad intensification, with a combination of preventive and repressive measures. We will discuss this with the Chamber tomorrow in more general terms. Of course, increasing the chances of getting caught is part of that. This is by focusing mainly on detection tools. Mr Van Raak has already said something about this, expressing concern about the issue of financial investigations. As you have also read in recent letters from me, we really need to put a great deal of effort into increasing that opportunity by extending the package of preventive and repressive measures properly. I cannot judge whether the chances of getting into trouble are sufficient at the moment. This depends on several factors, for example whether the declaration contains sufficient evidence to identify the operators. There is of course one of the cowardly points on the one hand, but on the other hand difficult to combat: many of these threats are done in such a way that it is very difficult to find out from what angle it comes. But in many cases, we do. We are using additional instruments in the context of detectives to expand those instruments, so that the chance of taking them is even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u85	Are you done with the point of the chance of getting caught?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u86	I've got numbers on duty in a few minutes. Mrs Van de Graaf had a question about that. But I'll hold off on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u87	The Minister is right to say that these threats are also part of a earning model of the underworld. I think it's mainly drug-related crime. But at the moment of such a threat, we also see such a network. And that, of course, is also a very good opportunity to use financial detectives to hit those networks where that hurts the most, namely in their wallet. That is a very good opportunity to combat that earning model. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u88	Let me be very clear about that. In recent times, I have found that we are really on a very good road. Nor do I agree with those who dismiss the 100 million of that undermining fund as a bagal. Absolutely not! I'm getting that back very clearly, from the police in the field and from the LIEC and the RIEC's. For the people at home: these are the Rural Information and Expertise Centre and the Regional Information and Expertise Centres. There are the experts who coordinate all the knowledge available to the services in order to better detect organised crime. Both the police and the people of these regional centres say: Minister, we need even more work from the Tax Office and the FIOD. I am with my colleague, Mr Snel, which I have written to your Chamber about. I am really looking at how we can come up with a business case that might allow us to get more space. Meanwhile, there is also a large amount of money for strengthening financial investigations in the police's reinforcement funds, which amount to €291 million per year. But the answer to Mr Van Raak's question is: I agree that we should also focus on that kind of thing, because that is what the bad guys earn their money from. That's what they do: not for fame, but for the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u89	That's what the minister's predecessor said. And his predecessor said the same thing. I think I've heard them say it before. Ministers always say in such cases: this financial detection is very important and we are really going to invest in it. In the meantime, however, I have to say that it has only become less. You're gonna have to go to the CID and look at people who specialize in financial investigations. I think the Minister's intention here is fantastic. I've heard that one before. But what concrete plans are there? How many people are assigned? How many financial detectives will be appointed in the next few weeks and months? How many are being trained? And how much budget will be made available for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u90	I'd be happy to send a letter to your room about that. There's gonna be an A.O.P.D. coming up soon. That would be tomorrow, but it has been postponed to April in connection with other debates. Then I can go into that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u91	So for the general consultation Police gets the Chamber information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yeah, to give that breakdown. I would like to record it for my predecessors, because they too have taken this issue seriously. But unfortunately, the fight against crime is of all times; it does not only play in the time of my predecessors, but also in the time when I am a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u93	I heard the minister say he wasn't a good judge of whether the chance of getting caught was enough. I also understand that it's hard to judge that. But most of all, I asked how many people were caught. What are the numbers? Then it is both the people who have been arrested and the people who have been convicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u94	It turns out that it's very hard to break down into the numbers. If I say that now, I myself do not find it satisfactory, because I also want to know how many cases we have found that we have at least arrested suspects. A second point is how it went in criminal proceedings. I'm also talking to the police about that, to see how we can get a clearer picture of that. I shall return to your Chamber, but I cannot give you that sharp picture now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u95	I think it's a very open thing. Maybe we'll double the penalty. But what's the situation now? Are there 10, 20 or 100 people arrested and convicted or are there only 3? What are we even talking about? So what's the problem with getting an insight into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u96	I understand the critical question, but the problem is that as far as the people being arrested are concerned, you often need a separate registration for that part. In many cases, the people who are arrested appear to be being arrested for a multitude of criminal offences. I'm now looking at how we can split up and specify that more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u98	Finally. Does this have anything to do with the fact that the crime rates are so diffuse? Yesterday we also saw that there are as many as 700 categories where you can register something underneath. Is that why it's so hard to get an insight into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u99	I can only say that there is a lot of registration. However, at least we note that I cannot give you a clear picture of how many people we have actually caught for that, because some of the people who have been caught for that are being caught for a wider range of criminal offences. I believe that this should be more broken down and I do not want to anticipate whether this sector is related to registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u100	In 2016, 400 million criminal assets were taken away. In 2016, that was 221 million. Last year, that was 171 million. So the trend is falling, while Minister Grapperhaus says: we're doing everything we can to tackle criminals harder, namely where it hurts, in their wallet. My question is: can we not conclude on the basis of these figures that it is actually a joke and a bankruptcy, that the cabinet is not able to take away criminal assets and that it is actually only worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u101	No, you can't say that. That would be a painful misunderstanding. The point is that what is ultimately taken away on balance may indeed vary from year to year. That is why, on the basis of previous experience, the cabinet has also said: we should not put that on the justice budget, but on the general income, otherwise the justice budget will go up and down every year. I support that, and I agree with our rule of law. We must go after criminal organisations and criminals, no matter what the financial proceeds will be. But of course, we're also focusing on taking away their assets. I have sent you a separate letter on this, stating that I believe that the instruments should be extended. But also in view of the time I am not going to go into this in too much detail. But it may be that in one year there is a club, where more power has come into sight, and that in the other year it is less. But you can't put a causality on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u102	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u103	The Minister is not an accountant, and so it turns out, because it does not change a year. It goes down a lot, and that's exactly where the problem is. I've already read the letter the Minister sent us. We are again announcing all kinds of investigations, possible measures and more cooperation, but what has already been agreed is all awaiting us. Let me mention: to improve information sharing, to make the Bibob better organised and to ensure that legislation is put in place. And there's no extra structural money either. I repeat, and I conclude, in fact, that tackling and taking away criminal assets is failing. The criminals are laughing their balls out of their pants and we're standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u104	I think Mrs. Kicken does the police and the D.A.'s wrong when she says, "criminals are laughing their asses off." That's what I call it. We have, of course, seen in the past year that a number of important successes have been achieved in the fight against crime. And those are really big ones. I would then like to address a question that has been rightly asked, namely: what about this legislative proposal for information sharing partnerships? There I hope to reach final approval of the Personal Data Authority very soon. Mrs Kuik also pointed out in her first term that this took some time. This is a discussion in which the weighing of privacy is done very thoroughly and carefully. But I hope to be out of it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u105	I actually want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u106	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u107	Any point of order? Today I am only dealing with points of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr. Chairman. I'll be modest, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u109	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u110	...I'm not speaking to the police. That's what the Minister says, but it's not. I'll speak to the minister. He is responsible for the legislation. He's responsible for the money. I see that the implementation services are not able to take more money and that trend is falling...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u111	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u112	...and that they don't have the tools in their hands to do their job properly while they're all crying out for it. And there's only one person responsible for that, and that's the minister and not the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u113	That was not a point of order, by the way. I can hear you shouting "yes," but that was really not a point of order. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mr. Chairman. I will spare your room to go back to the list of extra money this cabinet is putting in for police and justice. Extra to the previous cabinet. 291 million in structural terms and 91 million in exceptional cases. Now I'm going to call it again, but at least that's what they're very committed to. One of your Members of Parliament has referred this week to the concept of bulldozer. That was, admittedly, my own fault, because I had used that concept myself. But I am really bulldozering these criminal organisations, and we must do so as a society, because we are a democratic rule of law and so this cabinet puts a great deal of structural and occasional resources into it. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed on Mrs Helder's point about undermining legislation. I understand her question. I've already given an explanation. I think it is right that we should have a detailed discussion with the Personal Data Authority about this sharing of information. We will be able to find out about that in the very near future. I would therefore like to announce to your Chamber that I am in favour of the same meireces with the result. For the rest, as you know, Article 13b of the Opium Act has been amended since 1 January 2019 and the mayor of Eindhoven has been paying tribute to him. The bill amending the Bibob Act has been submitted to your Chamber and also the legislative proposals aimed at doubling the penalty rate for illegal possession of automatic firearms, as well as at increasing the penalty rate for perpetrators of serious crimes such as violence and organized liquidations, have been submitted to your Chamber. They're both sitting there, and I'd like to help your MPs in the legislative proposal for a re-evaluation of current criminal offences. Then I come to an important point, namely the sharing of information. That was also a question from Mrs Helder. So let me just say that I have asked the Council of State for information on how an active role of municipalities in countering undermining relates to the existing division of powers. In doing so, I immediately raised the subject of the mayor as a crime fighter. Then it's quick. I would also like to give the honourable Member an opportunity to say something about this, because she is, of course, the true guardian of the mayors. But I want to say this. I talked to the mayors in detail last year about my concern that their role could be too much that of what I have called 'a sheriff'. Some of you have used the term citizen father, citizen mother, and I endorse it. By the way, the fellow Member will say more about this too. The mayor wasn't a ribbon-blinker in the past either. There, I'm afraid, NRC Next hasn't really looked into what history was. The mayor used to have a security role, always, and a role in guarding public order. But the mayor was there for all citizens. I made the deal with the mayors that we ask the Council of State how it sees that role now. In that respect, Mr President, and that is the end of my reply to Mrs Helder, I have therefore submitted the test to the Council of State on this point. So that's what we're looking at together. Firstly, the fight against organized crime is therefore very important to me, and secondly, I think that one of you has said that it is primarily about the police, about me and about myself as responsible for this, and that it must be dealt with. Mayors should not get in the wind too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u115	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u116	Yeah, that was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u117	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u118	Have all these administrative measures not contributed to this? We have also given mayors a great deal of opportunities for ourselves, outside the courts, outside the Public Prosecutor's Office, to take measures on public policy and security. That's what we did here, in the House of Representatives. Those were proposals from the cabinet. Didn't that change the mayor's position when we look back like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u119	This administrative approach has, of course, put the mayor in a better position. I myself am in favour of this administrative approach because it brings some of it back to what is at stake: public order. I would like to explain this briefly to Mr Van Raak. He and I have been in those neighborhoods where they're dealing massively with undermining crime. That's exactly where you want someone, in this case the mayor, to be able to intervene by closing down buildings, by getting order, by making people feel like things are quiet in the neighborhood. You don't want them to get frustrated by a criminal trial that is a little longer due to the rule of law, the outcome of which isn't always satisfactory to the rightful ones, as far as I understand. But we have the rule of law. Back to the mayor; hence the stronger commitment to the administration. However, I do think that we should ask ourselves whether we have not reached the limit. The Council of State will look into that. As soon as that information is available, I will, of course, discuss it with the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u120	If we had enough police and enough detectives, if not all the judges in the Netherlands were overworked and got a lot more cases than they can handle, would we have taken all those administrative measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u121	There is a quantified report from the Council of Europe. That is not a qualifying report, because the Netherlands always takes fifth place. Then Mr Van Raak always worries whether it is right for you to be in fifth place every year. Anyway, I think some of the league clubs are always in the same place. Whatever the case, that Council of Europe report is about the quantification of the rule of law. I'm willing to send that to you in 150-fold. You can see that the Netherlands is very much at the top when it comes to spending on the rule of law, on the police, on the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the judiciary, also broken down. I think that's a good thing. We can always say that there might still be structural resources. It is, of course, up to your Chamber to say something about this at some point. But the image that we would not do enough about it here is contradicted by those independent investigations by the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u122	I welcome the Minister's commitment that a letter will be sent to the Chamber before the Mayreces on the opinion of the Personal Data Authority on the undermining legislation and, more specifically, the privacy barriers. Today there is an article in the Trouw entitled: Criminals have free play on the housing market. In this, several parties say that tackling residential fraud is hampered by privacy legislation. They refer specifically to the so-called traffic light model. You can't do that anymore; I know that. My question to the Minister is only: does that opinion of the Personal Data Authority also address the barriers to residential fraud, where privacy is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u123	I must confess that it is at least in a more general sense about how we can share information within partnerships, between public and private. How can we decorate this in such a way that privacy is adequately guaranteed for all? I agree with what your Member of Parliament, Mr Helder, says, that privacy serves to protect ordinary citizens in his personal sphere and that it should not become an abuse instrument of those who are simply trying to harm ordinary citizens or harm society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u124	I agree with the Minister. I refer specifically to this article, but I understand that several trade associations have sent a letter to the Minister. The point is that such cooperation took place in the past, with great success. I understand that legislation has been speeded up and I share the privacy guarantees, but not if they hinder what these organisations have done in the past to combat home fraud. I'd be sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u125	I understand Mrs Helder's point, but I do think that as Minister of Justice, I must insist that we work together on legislation on which, at least as a minister, I can say that she can pass the test of a decent rule of law. You can approve this legislation politically or not; that is your primacy. There is a difficult balance in this, because I also believe that ordinary citizens, as they are now sitting in the gallery and in the Chamber, are genuinely entitled to adequate privacy protection. So it's important that we sail through those two cliffs in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u126	I hear the Minister say that there will be a report from the Council of State, or at least the Council of State will come forward with conclusions on the changing role of the mayors, if I understand correctly. Does this include what kind of enforcement capacity is needed, what additional support or what other facilities are needed? If we choose that role to be there, we must put people in sufficient position to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u127	I also refer to a question that Mrs Laan-Geselschap asked about this: how can you ensure that mayors can perform their work properly? Some other Members asked for this in some form. The intention of this request to the Council of State to inform us about it is so called that it is official to indicate what should be the correct interpretation of the mayor's role in our order. Of course, the proper implementation of this role also includes the appropriate resources. It may of course be that the Council of State will say: well, we think it should be along this road. And we, the Minister for Justice and Security, and the Home Secretary, may have to conclude that this or that is still necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u129	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered Mrs Laan's question on this point as well. Mrs Den Boer asked when it was decided that a mayor should be protected. There are different responsibilities in this. If the threat is such that the mayor himself cannot resist, then the government has a far-reaching responsibility to ensure that the mayor can continue to do his or her important work. We have another debate on guarding and security. If I am right, that is one of the 30 debates I have left on the list. We certainly need to talk about this in depth, but I do not think that is entirely on the agenda today. In any case, I would like to stress that the mayor does not have to decide on his own security. The Chief Prosecutor has that task as a local authority. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, which includes me, can then test the proposed measures for proportionality and completeness. The questions raised about the role of the CoR and the like will, of course, be addressed by my colleague. How are mayors informed about the threat? Mayors shall be informed of the nature and measures taken where possible, but interests relating to intelligence, detection and prosecution may give rise to a failure to inform the mayor in detail. I know how frustrating that can be. I've been talking to threatened mayors about that myself. Especially in the beginning, that's very difficult. Also for one's own environment, it's very bad when you're seriously threatened, but you don't know exactly who and why. But that is what we are doing in the interests of research, and I know that at some point they are, let me say, 'based'. As Mrs Laan said, the Machiavelli Prize for this? There's been better things. I have a few other points, Mr President, and then I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u130	Let me turn to the previous point. In the Netherlands, we have arranged this very decentralisedly through the regional triangle, in which the prosecutor and the police sit together to determine the level of threat. But I still find it somewhat unclear how the collaboration between the local triangle and in this case the NCTV works. When is it going to be a national issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u131	The NCTV evaluates, as stated above, the measures in relation to proportionality and necessity. In this case, this is the task of the NCTV. But the local chief officer is the one responsible for deciding how, what, size and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u132	Would you like to zoom in on the local drivers who are threatened and how they are advised by the local triangle and the NCTV prior to the debate on the system? Perhaps we can also consider the distinction between personal security, which we talk about mostly, and the security of objects in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u133	I can give you my word on that. I think we need to deepen this discussion, as I said. I'll do that. I had a few things left. At the point of the mayors and damage a few things play along. I would like to say to Mrs Laan-Geselschap that there are opportunities to recover the damage caused by a criminal offence from the offender. If it is not known, it is not possible. Then, in principle, the mayor will have to turn to his estate insurance. If it is known, it runs through the Support Team Weatherable Board. Legal expertise is available through Victim Support The Netherlands. There is another point raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg, namely the cost of security and the like. At the moment, my officials are studying a bill that is going to make it possible to do so, as it is clear from the case law of the Supreme Court that it is necessary to take legal account of the costs incurred by the government to prevent or deal with criminal activities, such as the removal of illegal fireworks or security charges for mayors, on the final offenders arrested. A recent ruling by the Supreme Court shows that this is not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u134	Does this include the disposal of drug waste, which the judge has previously said cannot be deposited by the police with the polluter, who has to pay for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u135	In any case, I look at this problem in broad terms. That drug waste has recently been answered to your Chamber. But we shouldn't talk about that right now, because it's about threatened mayors today. But at least I look at this problem in broad terms. Mr. Chairman. While I have arrived at Mrs Van Toorenburg's office, I would like to say a few words under the heading 'other' about whether you can also consider sabotaging the public administration as a criminal offence. Let me say the following. I think some of the crimes we're talking about here lead to sabotage of the board. So we could still see if, if that kind of crime is involved, that should lead to an increase in the penalty rate in any case. The Attorney General considers this to be the case, for example, in the case of aggression and violence against people performing public functions. Sec, as I understand it, the disruption of administration as a criminal offence is not going to fly very well, because then you are actually going to deal with the cause and not the crime itself. But the most important thing is that it should be some sort of collective term for crimes that are going to lead to a certain effect. But the last word, I'm telling you, hasn't been said about it yet. But I'd like to give it my first thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u136	It is good if the last word has not yet been said about it, because I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to investigate this further. We have punitive provisions, including a restraining order. The fact that someone is not so much a threat to a person as to disrupt the course of democracy should be one's own independent criminality, shouldn't it? Would the Minister be prepared to give us an analysis on that? Put a couple of smart guys in a room, put it in their center and watch them get out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u137	There are a lot of extremely clever people working in my ministry, I can assure you. I don't know if I can get them all in one room. Besides, the building seems to be something that might not be wise at the moment. But I'd like to give my word that I'll come back to that. That may be possible, but I'm not sure about that in the promised letter on the further elaboration of the penalty measure for threat. Then we'll have things together as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mrs Van Toorenburg looks happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you for this happy commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u140	I thought so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u141	It's a happy promise. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Graaf wasn't here just now, so I waited for a moment to reply to the issue of the threat and coercion reports. We do not have any figures available on the number of threat and disciplinary reports, which are not specifically recorded in the criminal justice chain on functions, such as mayor's. What I would like to point out, however, is that what was also decided in Mrs Van der Graaf's question is that of course the police and OM look very closely at what is the most appropriate crime in the specific situation. She rightly has a point when she says that the burden of proof is different in terms of weight. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg rightly said: should we not talk about whether there is an increase in the nature and extent of the threats? We have already discussed the temporary nature of the asylum-seekers' centres. But the Pro Facto investigation Criminal influence of local government shows that 24% of mayors have ever indicated that they have been threatened with criminal intent. These are all forms of violence or aggression with which criminals try to influence decision-making processes. That was not a monitoring study, so no figures are known to show whether there was any increase or decrease. Most threats, 40%, were related to drug trafficking. 28% were related to money laundering of criminal assets. By the way, I would like to say that a letter on money laundering will soon be sent to your Chamber. I do not say much about this today, because then we will be very much out of touch with this debate. But I'll come back to that. Finally. The Monitor aggression and violence public administration, which is carried out every two years by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, shows that 43% of the mayors in 2018 were affected by aggression, 43%! Mr President, I said that I do not want to go directly into the issue of banks. There's gonna be another debate about that. I think that's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u143	Thank you to the Minister for all these figures. It is indeed very worrying and serious, and I think we all agree on that. My question was actually about evolution. The issue of asylum seekers' centres was a very big one around 2015. I also mentioned a number of other examples, such as the Oostvaarderplassen and the New Year's Fires. For some, that's reason to make a threat. If you look at the past ten or fifteen years, is there a sharp increase in the number of threats or the seriousness of the threats? Of course, the latter can, precisely because it comes from organized crime. I'd like to get a little more clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u144	I will take a look at that for the second term. I told you this investigation isn't gonna be on a monitor. But I'll see if I can say a little more about that after official consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u145	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin by fully supporting the introductory remarks made by Mr Grapperhaus in particular. We cannot and do not accept the fact that mayors are threatened in the Netherlands. I have also tasted this in the contributions of Members today. Then we don't. One of the most impressive moments I experienced as a minister was at that Grand Place in Haarlem, when all Haarlemmen actually stood behind Jos Wienen as one man, as one woman. That's a lot to say. This expresses a great deal for him, but through him also for this profession of mayors, councilors and aldermen, people who work for the public administration and therefore for the public interest. I think that's very meaningful. Of course, I speak a lot of mayors. If you hear their stories, you will really find out how urgent this issue is and how important it is that we take action against it. It has a huge impact. We are also talking here about the political impact and the political consequences it can have, but it has an impact on people. It has an impact on the man or woman involved. It has an impact on this person's family. It has an impact on the official organisation, so the people in the near working environment, as Mr Grapperhaus just illustrated with the example of Haarlem. They are important functions, which are occupied by people who are committed to them with heart and soul and who together are actually the backbone of our democracy. It's about our open society. It is about the democratic rule of law, as has just been said. That's why we can't let it happen. I would also like to stress that the Machiavelli Prize was very rightly awarded to the entire profession. I like that it happened, but we all wish it wasn't. What can we do? Firstly, there must be a very good cooperation between what JenV's colleague and everyone he is responsible for, and what I do from my responsibility for mayors and others. We've set some things in motion. I would like to mention them before I specifically answer the Members' questions. You can also find them all on the website reverbaarbeheer.nl. Perhaps I can also refer to that for ease of reference. The security package that we're now giving every mayor in office gives them an insight into all the arrangements and facilities that exist. It also refers to the system of surveillance and security, which has just been mentioned. So it is an important starting point, especially when it comes to prevention. It concerns, for example, the ability to conduct a security call and the fact that a standard home scan is offered and is therefore done. That makes people alert, and it also makes them better aware and assess security risks. Moreover, it is a scan done by independent safety advisers who simply give concrete advice and propose improvements. We've done 324 house scans since October last year, 97 of which are for mayors. It is also about training for drivers in dealing with intimidation and threat. This training also raises awareness and provides tools to respond to this kind of intimidation and threats. It gives an action perspective. We also have a Support Team Wearable Board. Experience experts can be used for those who actually experience it. Those are just colleagues, former colleagues or former drivers. It helps if you can talk to someone who may have experienced it themselves and who is independent and comes from outside. If necessary, other professionals can also be involved, but so far we have the experience that this works very well. This is all meant to increase resilience, but of course it is also just to let these drivers know that we are not leaving them in the cold, that we are there and that we would like to help them. I think that is the most important thing we are trying to achieve. Mr. Chairman. A number of Members have asked very specific questions. I wanted to answer them in a logical order rather than necessarily in the order of the speakers. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Laan asked: do the mayors feel supported and strengthened by what is happening? Actually, that's what it came down to. I just said that there must be good cooperation between what can happen from JenV and what can happen from BZK. That's very important. Monitoring and securing the system is part of it, but what I can do from BZK is also about prevention. I mentioned the trainings. That can also be about aftercare. Whoever has the primary responsibility also depends a little on the exact stage you are in. But, of course, it is our problem, so I would almost say, simply to organize it properly, so that those mayors are simply adequately supported and helped and do not have to worry about which department this actually falls under. I think we've set that up better than it was. I have just mentioned a few examples of this. Mrs Laan also said that the security scan could, of course, lead to costs incurred by municipalities to get the security level of the mayors in order. That's right. In general, this does not pose a problem. Municipalities just have facilities for that and can solve that. I also said that, for example, when it comes to very small municipalities for which these costs are above proportional to their budget, I think that we should look at them and we should resolve that problem. We should not leave that with these municipalities if they had to leave something else, so to speak, to regulate that security, which would result in them not doing that security investment. Of course, that would be undesirable, but I do see something in her suggestion that the King's Commissioner should have a role in that. I've already asked them to do that when asking for attention to do the housing scan. Indeed, I can well imagine that in their role towards the municipalities they also emphasise that it is good to have such reservations on the municipality's budget. Again, if this really leads to a bottleneck somewhere, mayors or municipal councils can report to the commissioner or to me, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then, of course, we'll always see how that can be solved. The question of being complementary to each other was also from Mrs Den Boer. I hope that I have just outlined how we are actually complementary, because it concerns both preventive matters and repressive matters. I'd almost say it could be about precaution and aftercare. A little depending on the situation we use that, but that is indeed complementary to each other. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to a point that has actually been answered very extensively by my colleague. I would like to add a few words. That's about the role of the mayors. This was also the subject of BZK's budget debate. I said then, also in response to comments from Members of your Chamber, that the role of the mayor is, of course, changing. This role changes with time and also with social developments. It is also true that tasks and responsibilities have been extended. This also has to do with increased complexity, both socially and locally. With Mr Grapperhaus, I also think that the time of ribbon cutters is far behind us, as far as it has ever existed. I actually think the mayors have never had that job alone. Some kind of constant in that is the role of citizen father or citizen mother. This is also what mayors in the Netherlands consider an important task they have: a figurehead function, a person who radiates trust and in which the inhabitants of the municipality have confidence. But they have been given many tasks and also very important tasks. I also said in this budget debate that I think that there should be room for mayors to put their own accents in it and actually to give a personal dimension to the spirit they want to have in their responsibilities. One chooses the crimefighter profile more than the other, but they always do so in the context of the triangle in which they operate. I would also like to refer to the answer given by Mr Grapperhaus. He asked for information from the Council of State. As soon as it is there, we can, of course, continue to talk about this. I believe that Mrs Den Boer has asked for everything that has been put into motion and what we have listed together to be clearly put back on paper before the Chamber. Of course, my colleague and I are always happy to do so. Finally, I would like to say one thing about Mrs Helder's question, just in the event of interruption, about housing fraud. I've got an AO on the housing fraud tomorrow night. Then it is indeed about the exchange of data. I am very aware of the fact that housing corporations are calling attention to this. I believe that we should find a workable solution with them, but with due regard for the GDPR. This brings me to the end of the answer given in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u147	I do not have so much a question as a comment. In my first term, I mentioned a number of mayors who had to deal with threats. I also mentioned the mayor of Zaanstad, but that took place in his capacity as mayor of Heusden. I'd like to put that right with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u148	That is good to report, because then it will be correct in the Acts. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Laan-Gesselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the ministers for their reply. In my opinion, in addition to all rational considerations, they also had a more emotional reflection. They stood beside all the mayors who do all that good work for us. We have another motion, despite the fact that the Minister has already indicated that she wanted to think in our direction. On behalf of Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that drivers at local level are increasingly under serious threat;]] [[noting that undermining may also have an impact on the municipal councils;]] [[noting that the City Council is the competent body to make credit available for the security of the directors' home;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for measures to protect drivers to be discussed in public;]] [[Considers that the King's Commissioner can fulfil a responsibility with regard to securing directors' homes;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the responsibility for securing directors' homes at local level can be placed with the King's Commissioner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion went very quickly, but I was allowed to see it earlier. Thank you for that. However, there is an assumption on the basis of the motion, namely that the city council might not be able to give an opinion on the security of the mayor's home. Is this a license of inability for the city council, Mrs. Laan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u151	I think this is a negative approach to a motion which involves a very positive approach. Maybe that's how you've been getting to know me lately. No, certainly not, I think we should consider how to organise this in the best and most optimal way for the safety of our drivers. The King's Commissioner, a part of our order, can give a good, neutral and objective opinion on something as important as a government home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u152	I understand that, but of course the city council has roles, tasks and powers. I would like to ensure that the tasks of the municipal council members are not further undermined; hence I am asking this question. Of course, I think it is important that the confidentiality of communication in the city council can be guaranteed, hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u153	Clear, but I'm from the local government myself. I would never hollow out anything that I value very much. The underlying thought you see in it, I do not share with you at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u154	You have made that clear, Mrs. Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply, but I am not leaving with a very satisfied feeling, not because I doubt the intentions of all of us to do everything possible to ensure that our mayors and other administrators, but also the prosecutors, the prosecutors and the judges, are able to do their work safely, but because I still lack a sense of urgency to take all kinds of measures to deal with this undermining. Then it's about legislation, capacity and enough money. Money is not always there, but just now we can make those choices. I also particularly insist on a bit of haste with things, because there is a lot going on in good intentions. I really miss doing things. That is what we are going to discuss tomorrow morning, because then we will have a general discussion on organised crime and undermining. Let us continue the debate there, because you can have a high level of punishment, but if you do nothing to undermine the underminers themselves, then the mop-up with the tap open and its mayors will suffer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both ministers for the detailed answer to the questions. Two letters for Mayreces will be sent to the Chamber: one on increasing the penalty rate, and the other on undermining legislation and ejection where privacy rules are concerned. I'll wait for it. Then a comment about the story about the costs, because I have the feeling that some things were going to get mixed up. I believe that a distinction should be made between costs incurred in helping beleaguered mayors, we are all, that is the collective, that is the residents of the municipalities, and costs relating to drug waste. This is aimed at an owner of a property and the court recently said that this should not be on the behalf of the citizen concerned. I very much agree with that. I would like to ask the Minister a little more about this in the general discussion on organised crime tomorrow. There is, of course, an answer to that, because he already knows that that question is coming. Then I have a question about the legislative test. I understand that, at my request, the Minister indicated that information had been requested from the Council of State. If that's all right with me, I'd like to know a deadline for that. If I am wrong to ask for information on the role of the mayor, then I would like to know whether there will be any response to the legislative test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I am going to give you good news, namely that I am not going to turn a commitment already made by the Minister into a motion. I'm not filing this motion. That is the motion, and I would like to say this for a moment, that the Minister also provides us with a basis for the plans he has already unfolded in De Telegraaf. I hope he will also include what this means not only to increase the penalty rate, because I have already read that, but also what this entails in terms of additional capacity and so on. I think that the chance of getting caught is particularly important if he really wants to reach his target by really having significantly less threats from mayors and significantly more cases to solve. That's what worries me. I'd like to give that to you. I find it worrying that we do not actually have any figures on how many people have actually been arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u160	And you have a motion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u161	No, it's not. That's good, too, isn't it? But I thought I would use the second term anyway because I do want to express this. We can talk about only increasing the penalty, but it's also about the chance of getting caught. This means that we must also be able to record what that is. I really hope that the Minister will work on this and inform us about it through a letter to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66. A commitment counts as much as a motion. You know that, don't you? That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr. Chairman. Every threatened mayor is too many and every mayor threatened with death is not only far too much but is and remains unacceptable. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments about monitoring and securing the system and the overview of measures. I have two more questions and one comment. I still miss that staple I mentioned in the first term, in the sense that there are a lot of reports on threats to mayors but that there is not yet a good understanding of how it comes and it often occurs and in trends, evolution. I still don't understand what that's like. We have reports from Pro Facto, WODC, I&O Research and Bureau Beke. Minister, put a staple on it. Would you mind writing us a note on how it's all worked out? The Minister said that high penalties can also be important in the context of the suffering that has been done to people. That suffering is of course very important, but does the Minister think that the judge is not doing well at the moment? Is he or she short and doesn't the judge have enough room in it right now? I'm a little frustrated about the chance of getting caught. It's not good in the picture if perpetrators are sufficiently caught and it's hard to figure out which angle it comes from. D66 really wants to see that chance of getting caught up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u164	Of course, it's always good to staple something loose. My question then is what, according to D66, is the added value of that staple. What does this staple bring us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u165	Of course, I don't want to make it any smaller about that staple. It's important that the images we have are brought together. For example, we discussed earlier in the debate the reason why mayors are threatened. This may be about threats from crime, but there may also be solitary dreigers. I think it is very important that we understand what this threat is like so that we in the Chamber can also debate the instruments that can be used now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u166	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u167	But actually I hear that there is also a fear that wrong images are being given at the moment about how things are going. Because if we don't have to, we don't have to put staples through something and jump to different conclusions. So I think we should get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u168	In my contribution, I didn't talk about wrong images but about partial images. I was talking about a salami to show that you sometimes see parts of images and miss the integral image. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u170	Thank you, Mr President. I don't need pieces with a staple through. I don't need an extra explanation. I would prefer the ministry officials to work on the important commitment I am getting today, which is to look at the opportunities and threats of possibly a new crime involving the disruption of democracy and the sabotage of public administration. I say that because I think it is important to give direction to something else that would only look like an increase in punishment: we find it so horrible and we make it a higher punishment. It's important that we state why we think it's so criminal. Then what's going on? That is that threatening a mayor is not just about threatening an official or a person, but that we consider the intention to be so punitive that we consider it conceivable to have a separate sentence. I would prefer the officials to work with that rather than with staples and staples. Mr President, you see that I do not have this in a motion, because I think we should honour you in it: if we have a commitment, we do not need a motion, otherwise we will only make ourselves smaller in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u171	Very well, Mrs Van Toorenburg, thank you very much. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I didn't do something right after all. Apparently, I've promised so much that there are hardly any motions. So something's not right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u173	Yeah, it's all in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u174	If it were physically possible, I'd be sorry as hair on my head. I can now hear Mrs Buitenweg say something outside the microphone. That was kind of funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u175	No, this is not in the Acts, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u176	It was said that you would be one of few regrets. Now I've repeated it. But the point was made by Mrs Buitenweg. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State. Of course, I shouldn't tell a High College of State when it's gonna come up with something. My wish would be that the Council of State might perhaps come with it before the May recess. But I do tell you: that is a dream based on how I might reasonably think about it, but I cannot go any further. I hope that's enough for Mrs. Helder. It raised a point of substance. I have therefore just presented this rather essential element of the legislative test to the Council of State. Furthermore, I have received many suggestions from various quarters, including the legislative test. Some of the issues that have been raised or included in that legislative test are also being taken up now. This also applies to thoughts, suggestions and motions from your Chamber. Anyway, it's a wish dream. So that would be good, because we would not be able to discuss at once some of the commitments I made in letter form and that opinion of the Council of State long after the May recess. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Buitenweg about the figures. Throughout the period from 2010 onwards, there has been no marked decline or rising trend in the victimisation of aggression and violence among mayors. We even see a decrease from 2016 to 2019, from 55% in 2016 to 43% now. These are expressions of aggression and violence, which continue to take place mainly in personal contact. However, we do see an increase in aggressive expressions via social media. I think that is a fairly general social phenomenon. In a quick scan of the development of threats from organised crime, Bureau Beke found that public administration appears to be a relatively new victim group of such threats. One of Beke's possible explanations is the growing role of this profession in the fight against crime through the administrative approach. That was one of the reasons for me to say to the mayors: friends and friends, let's really ask the Council of State for an opinion before we extend it even further. By the way, I said: from 2010. If we look back longer, of course we can see that the problem we are discussing today, the threat to mayors, had a completely different dimension 25 years ago, at least in the area of organised crime. I'd like to put it on that. So that corresponds to Bureau Beke's observations. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Den Boer asked for an increase in the penalty rate which I shall return to you on, or I think that the judge is not doing well in terms of satisfaction. The judiciary is not under me, so I can say something complimentary about that. I believe that we in the Netherlands have a very good judiciary within the rule of law. The only thing that matters is that the judiciary must have a criminal instrument that is of today's time. I also explained that threat has become kind of part of a business model. It is no longer the question that it used to be, which was perhaps a bit simpler, when we once introduced it into our Code of Criminal Law, which dates back to the nineteenth century. We really need to bring this more into line with current society in terms of satisfaction and general and special prevention. So it certainly isn't the judge's fault. Finally, I had Mrs Helder's comment on the costs. I understand that very well. The issue of drug waste is also a matter for individuals, but in the end I am concerned that we, including the mayors under attack, should see if the costs we have as a society to ensure that they are protected and the costs we incur to deal with certain criminal cases can be borne by the criminals themselves. My colleague from BZK will address the motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u177	I now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u178	Thank you, Mr President. The only thing left to me is the motion by Mrs Laan and Mrs Van der Graaf on part No. 552. I did say something about it in my first term. The motion calls for an investigation. Of course, I agree with that, but I do not think that the aim should necessarily be to remove the responsibility of the municipalities. A lot of municipalities are doing just fine. But I do see that the King's Commissioner can play a role in various ways, in raising awareness and following action. If there are any problems with financing, a role can also be played in this respect. So I intend to do some things. That's what I promised. I leave the vote to the Chamber, but I would like to give this to Mrs Laan and Mrs Van der Graaf. With that understanding, I would like to leave the judgment, as I said, to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u179	A brief question, Mrs Buitenweg. Looks like you've got an afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u180	Yeah, sure. It was actually an afterburner for the Minister of Justice and Security. Can't I say something to him soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u181	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u182	It is a matter of responding to the proposals just mentioned by Mrs Van Toorenburg. I would like to remind you that earlier, during the debate on the hate image, it became so that at that time called "I've already talked about a possible possibility of adding an extra ground where it became really threatening, especially for an institution, to make sure that you put down some kind of ring of protection for mayors. At that time, the Minister said he was going to look into it. Perhaps he can take that with him in the same letter or in the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u183	I am going to strive for that, although it will indeed be a letter that a staple must pass through; that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u184	Okay, we'll keep it in. Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-9.u185	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motion tabled.
