ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall continue with oral Question Time. I give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte, who is going to ask questions to the Minister for Medical Care about the message that waiting times in care continue to increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Climate is an extremely important subject, as it turns out. The Prime Minister has just been questioned about this for 45 minutes, but let us also talk about health care in the Netherlands. That is an extremely important point. Last Saturday, RTL News reported on something that unfortunately many patients already knew in practice: the waiting times in Dutch hospitals are running up. These waiting times are very different per condition and per region, but the trend is that you have to wait longer and longer for more and more diseases. And then the Dutch Association of Hospitals says about this, briefly: get used to it. The VVD can't accept that. The care in Dutch hospitals is very good, but that is not self-evident. We must continue to work hard to keep care good, affordable but also available. I understand that waiting time in care is a difficult and persistent problem, but it affects the essence of care, namely the rapid accessibility and availability of that care, and that is certainly not a side issue. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what specific actions he is taking to ensure that waiting lists do not increase further but are reduced. How does he ensure that hospitals actively find solutions to reduce waiting lists? Does the Minister agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that a position in the category of 'welcome to it' is an attitude of nothing and that this is really not possible? What activities are being undertaken to actively refer patients to healthcare providers where the waiting period is less long? In what way are health insurers addressed on their duty of care? But perhaps the most important thing is: how do we ensure that the pressure goes off from the hospitals, that more smart care is delivered outside the hospital, close to people at home, and that only patients arrive in the hospital who should actually be there for care and who could not have been helped elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. No, not "get used to it" but make sure that good care remains available. Perhaps a comment on the text of the broadcast to which Mr Rutte refers. This wasn't about acute care. Acute patients can always go. We are not there at all, but then we are sure that this acute concern is good and remains good. This was about the first visit to outpatient, medical-specialist care. I think there is something to say about the figures, but let's skip that. What I think is important is that since 1 January last year the healthcare providers have been obliged to inform the patient about the possibility of waiting-list mediation. If you can't go to the hospital where you're a regular patient, you can always call your health care provider to see where. This concerns the healthcare providers who have been obliged since 1 January last year to inform patients about the possibility of waiting time mediation. Those waiting times should be published on the site of the hospital or treatment centre concerned. That's one. Two: since August last year, those healthcare providers have also been obliged to provide the data on waiting times that I just spoke about according to a fixed format. What's the advantage of that? I can't believe you're bundling that data. The NZa is talking to the Patient Federation to make an overview for the whole of the Netherlands at ZorgkaartNederland, so you can see where the waiting times are. You don't need to get that insight by looking at the site of a hospital or a treatment center every time, but you can look it up on the site of ZorgkaartNederland or the Patient Federation. I hope that will be available by the end of this quarter. It is also good to know that the NZa is looking at how this waiting period is done by the health insurers; whether they provide sufficient insightful information. That's all the information that the patient can help; if he can't go for surgery at a hospital in his vicinity, where can he? I would like to add two more things, because this is not an issue that we can solve. Mr Rutte knows that. An alternative hospital or an alternative treatment center is nice, but we need to do more. They're all pieces, parts, puzzle pieces of the approach. You could also say: that is task redeployment. I have just looked at which disciplines or specialties the waiting times in some regions really increase. It's allergicology, gastrointestinal liver and ophthalmologists. In all three disciplines, it is sometimes helpful to ensure by job restructuring that someone else can offer a solution. For example, sometimes a dermatologist or general practitioner instead of an allergologist can offer a solution; and sometimes the ophthalmologist can offer a solution, sometimes the optometrist. So task redeployment can also be a piece of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	I shall first deal with the last thing the Minister says. I very much agree with that: rearrange tasks and organise care, where possible, closer to home. And don't let the patient who doesn't have to go to the hospital go there either. It is one of the most important steps we need to take: more smart care, or at home, or close to home. But that doesn't make much sense. Saying this is possible is one. Saying you can go to optometrist for some conditions is nice. Saying that you might be able to do something with care at a distance for some conditions is also nice. But from the hospital practice I hear very often: yes, but that is difficult; yes, but the funding... how do we keep things going, and we still need that care to get things running here in the hospital? So in what way is the Minister really going to take steps that go beyond just talking about moving care and getting closer to home? And is he also willing to really take a good look at the way we get care moved from the hospital to home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	You know that. And I refer here to the main line agreements that we concluded last spring on this movement: what really needs to be done in the hospital, what can be organized elsewhere in another form of care? And indeed, nothing is easy and nothing happens automatically. I think it's up to me to start that movement with the field parties, if the field doesn't do it by itself. "The right care in the right place" is something under which all the parties in the care have signed up, including the government. And if it doesn't come on its own, we're gonna blow it up and make it a success. I made a similar commitment to you on an example you mentioned in the budget debate. That wasn't about task redeployment, it was about e-health applications. We'll see how we can promote that. That's one. But perhaps I can make a comment on this very briefly. I was in a hospital in Delft yesterday. I spoke to an 82-year-old patient who needed knee surgery. She had to wait four months for that. She'd rather do that than go to another hospital because she feels familiar with that specialist in that hospital. We must also bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr President. In his first-term reply, the Minister quite rightly stated that this call or statement from the hospitals, that "we but on those waiting lists," really cannot be. We're not gonna get used to it. This needs a lot of work. The Minister makes many proposals in this area, and I wholeheartedly support them. We really want to see steps in the coming year, especially for moving the care out of the hospital, so that there is room again for the patient who really belongs there. The Minister also said a number of things about waiting-list mediation and access to it. But in the end, the question is how to make sure that someone gets to the right place when the first referral is made by the GP. Because if someone has already been referred to the hospital and there appears to be a long waiting list, the trial may be getting underway too late. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the Dutch general practitioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	Sure, and I will. But I think it really helps if we have that on the Healthcare CardNetherlands nationwide insight for the patient, so that he can see for himself. This also helps him in his conversation with the GP, because he can then see if he can get somewhere fast or have to wait longer; that is what the conversation can be about. So with the Health Care CardNederland in hand, and once again said: I hope that the end of the first quarter is ready, I want to have the conversation, among other things with the hospitals, but also with the National Family Doctors Association.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mrs. Van Brenk, 50PLUS. Or Mr. Raemakers? No, Mrs. Van Brenk, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that action should have been taken much earlier? Wouldn't we have been able to avoid these rising waiting times? The question is, what is the Minister going to do next?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	What I am doing, I have just said, is to ensure that there is waiting time mediation, that waiting times are not only published by hospital and by healthcare provider, but that the waiting list mediation is also promoted to health insurers and that the overview is transparent for the patient. Those are all things we're doing right now. You may remember, I say through the President, that last summer we had a debate about the shortage in some hospitals of some specialities. That's not a national image. From a national point of view, all the specialties are sufficient. But it's different from one region to another. The question is why in some regions certain specialists no longer like to settle. At that time, I promised you that we would investigate it. I hope to have that ready this spring too. That too is a piece of the puzzle. It's all little puzzle pieces. So I do not think we are already there with these measures. There will always have to be more training. We will allow the Capacity Body to estimate, as Mrs Van Brenk knows, the need for specializations, even in the years to come. We will ensure that there is funding for this. You can ask the government to do the same; that's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	For me, it's a bit of a question whether this is about availability or about affordability. The Minister quite rightly said that in some places, very locally, there is a shortage of some specialities. We also know that the shortage of staff is a major problem. In the data that has come to us we see that too long waiting times really occur in many places. We can no longer say that this only occurs in a few places. It's widespread all over the country. We have concluded the main agreements. That's what the minister called it. I sometimes get signals from the field that the implementation of these basic agreements, the transfer of the second line to the first line, goes a little too fast and that field partners often do not feel sufficiently involved. That may also be the cause of the deficits. Does the Minister think it is important that we do very well in the implementation of these basic agreements in conjunction with everyone? Is he also getting any signals that it might be moving a little too fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	There are many signatures under the main agreements. I understand that sometimes the implementation and implementation is a little bit of an au, but it's just a matter of working hard and monitoring the consequences. That's the first thing. Secondly, I do not believe that the waiting lists are going up so much. In addition to the figures I received in preparing this debate, I also have NZa figures. They are also made public somewhere in the first months of this year. At the core, it is about waiting times in three disciplines. In addition, there are about six more on it, round or just above the standard. But it's really an issue of allergicology, stomach, bowel and liver, and ophthalmology. So that's not all the specialties. So it's not something that comes up. I'm glad you did, too. But I'm gonna take care of making big deals about that. I see it mainly as an availability issue, not as an affordability issue. You can also say that everything is an affordability issue, but in this case I think it is an availability issue. The comments I have just made on the scarcity of certain specialities in the region also support this. We should not accept that, but the labour market problem is very strong. We're far from done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
