ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mr Kerstens of the PvdA for his question to the Minister for Medical Care, who is not here for nothing. His question is about the national hospital strike.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow tens of thousands of hospital staff will take action in what will become their biggest action, in hundreds of places in the country, in hospitals, in outpatient clinics, in rehabilitation centres and at the Jaarbeursplein in Utrecht. And you have to do your best to get the people in care to take action, to get them into your armor, to piss them off. Because the people in care always put their clients and patients first, even if that is at their expense. But now it is because they still do not have a decent collective agreement, because they have been waiting a year and a half for a raise. In that year and a half they received 0%, while their messages have become almost 4% more expensive. The people in care, the cork on which the good care drives in the Netherlands, are threatened by too much work pressure and too few colleagues, due to too many rules and too little pay. Of course, the Minister and I are not sitting at the collective bargaining table, but he does determine to a large extent how much money is available on that table to conclude a good collective agreement. That has to be more than it is now, and that can be more. In recent years, €1.5 billion less has been spent on healthcare salaries than the Ministry itself thought. Every year, millions of care money go back to the treasury. All it takes is a minister who wants to stand up for the people in the care, who wants to stand up for his people in the care, who gives them the appreciation they deserve, including in their wallet. I say to the Minister, do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. A major hospital strike is scheduled for tomorrow. Mr Kerstens spoke about this. We do not disagree on the fact that it is important that everyone who works in the care sector should receive a decent reward. To be honest, I am looking with concern at the fact that the collective agreement negotiations for hospitals are not running smoothly. In recent weeks, and also in the course of the budgetary procedure, I have mentioned here that this year there is a budget of 1.7 billion for working conditions in healthcare available from the Empire through the so-called oval funds. Fortunately, multi-annual collective agreements are established in many places in the care sector, whether they concern general practitioners, ggz, vvt or university medical centres. It's all worked out. So I have said here, in the case of hospital care, to the parties: what is needed to get together? Isn't it possible to restart those conversations among you? At present, today and tomorrow, I am talking to all the parties involved, all the collective bargaining parties, to see what it takes to get these talks back on track. At the same time, I note that the Empire is not a collective bargaining party. Mr Kerstens was right to point that out. We're not, and I don't want to be. I want the collective agreement parties to do their job to conclude a collective agreement. But I am very closely involved, to see what it takes to get the parties back to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	More people leave care than ever before, there are more vacancies than ever before and those vacancies are harder to fill than ever before. The Minister has a golden opportunity to make these negotiations work. Apparently, he doesn't feel like it. I'm sorry to hear that. I'm sorry, too. He just indicated that he invited the collective bargaining parties. That's what we read in the paper. He talks to unions and employers today and tomorrow. I believe that the Minister should come to terms with the financial situation in order to facilitate the negotiations. There is an amendment relating to EUR 600 million which we are going to vote on in December. Coverage's here, too. It has to be and it can be. If the Minister does not want to do so, will he, for example, consider how to get the negotiations moving? I predict it'll be the biggest action of hospital staff ever. I also predict that there might be more to follow, because it's not the people in the care that sits here, but because they're heading under. Does he, for example, want to facilitate these negotiations by appointing a mediator, by playing a more active role or whatever? I think he should do that by putting a bag of money on the table. That money's here. But there may also be other possibilities for at least getting back in touch with each other. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	Strike, take action, that's a right. So that's gonna happen tomorrow. And that will be done on a large scale; so have the various parties. I am aware of the amendment tabled to the budget which has been dissuaded. Because what am I going to say to all those other health care sectors where collective agreements have recently been concluded, where parties have succeeded? But by being closely involved and looking at what is needed to get the talks going again between the collective agreement parties, I want to show that I am closely involved and that I have great appreciation for the commitment of all those healthcare professionals who are ready every day. The discussions I have had so far show that it is also quite difficult to take action tomorrow. Because it is always the balance between action and care for patients. And the care for patients, that's what everyone in the care is very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	I pointed that out. It's a hell of a thing to do when the people in the care department start to take action. Then you've really made it a big deal, because they always put the interests of client and patient first. I just indicated that more people are leaving care than ever before, that there are more vacancies than ever before and that those vacancies are more difficult to fill than ever before. What the minister comes up with is yet another action plan to work in healthcare to keep people in care and to get people to care. There's no way that first one's gonna work. I appeal to the Minister again. You're with that bag of money. That bag of money's here. Please use it; become the hero of the people in care. Because that's the position you have as Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Kerstens and I disagree on the statement that the Working in Care Action Plan does not work on any sides. Those aren't my words. We see that fortunately there is also a lot of interest to work in healthcare. I'm incredibly happy about that. In addition, there are many other measures that we must take. Think, for example, of reducing the administrative burden in the care sector. Less paperwork will increase patient care. That is the route to go, along with many other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	First of all, I would like to express my support for all those hospital staff who are on strike tomorrow. I find the questions of the Labour Party so terribly hypocritical. During the previous cabinet period, 77.000 people lost their jobs thanks to them, thanks to the PvdA. And the salary developments were really so far behind what you might have expected at a time when they were actually desperately needed. My question to the Minister is as follows. He has already said something about administrative burdens, but we still have a bit to settle on this. There are now 1.2 million people on the payroll in healthcare. It is true that we must clear their hands. I have made concrete proposals on behalf of my party to reduce overhead and administrative burdens. Why does the Minister keep rejecting these concrete plans? When does he see that he can not only pick the low-hanging fruit, but also pick the high-hanging fruit, because these people are all on the payroll?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	Obviously, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm talking full-time bonus, overhead, administrative burden, the whole bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Administrative burdens have to do with rules. Rules are often made by the profession or the sector itself. It's hard to abolish other people's rules. I believe that, as a government, we should take a critical look at our own rules and also contribute to them by reducing the regulatory burden. That's a subject that hasn't been settled in 24 hours. Mrs. Agema knows that. It's tough, but we're really trying to make it noticeably better for people who work in care, today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Second question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	We really need to stop embracing plans when they come from the opposition. I believe that the Minister should be open to opposition plans. For example, we can see that the overhead is increasing in hospitals as well. The number of people who no longer have patient contacts is increasing. That line has to go the other way. If I make a proposal for an overhead standard, for people to carry out an executive task while retaining their salary, for those hands to be cleared, then this Minister will get me zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	But it's those people that are needed. Does the Minister also see that he has to do this, that he has to ensure that people from overhead positions start to perform an executive role again, because they are already on the payroll? These people are so badly needed to reduce the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	It is also my wish to keep patient care in the Netherlands very good and strong, and to abolish the rules and see if it can be done with less bureaucracy. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	People in care work with their hearts. The moment they decide to strike and put the job down, it is really wrong. Recently, here in the Lower House, a SP proposal was embraced that said that the wages of people working at a company could increase by 5% and should increase. The Prime Minister himself said that wages must be raised. Now the hospital staff are asking for a 5% increase in wages. Mr. Chairman. My question to this Minister is: how can he allow so many people with so much heart to strike tomorrow? Why does he not ensure that the space that the government provides to improve working conditions is at least 5%? After all, we ask companies to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think it is important that it is also clear from the state side that money is available for wage and price development. Those are the ovals. This year is an amount in order size of 1.7 billion. That's a hefty amount. As you know, we have also concluded agreements with the sector. I have a very regular wrist in the care parties to see if they are still good for their signature under those agreements. The answer is yes. Thirdly, at a time when the parties do not easily come to the table, I am concerned that there is not yet a collective agreement for hospitals. For this purpose, I am having discussions with all the parties involved in this collective agreement meeting today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	50PLUS considers the 5% wage requirement for hospital staff to be entirely reasonable. The minister wants to leave that by hospital, but there are already hospitals that say they just can't afford it. There are already a number of falls on it. What is the Minister going to do if this means that care will not be more widely accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	We all want comprehensively accessible care in the Netherlands. We don't want hospitals to fall apart. We want good collective agreements. Recent practice shows that many good collective agreements have been concluded in the healthcare sector with parties that have signed these agreements. That should also be possible in this case. I'd really like that. That's why I'm having these conversations with all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	Second question, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	Of course, it sounds very nice what the Minister says, and it all worked out in the past. But it just doesn't work out at all. Otherwise, all these people won't be there tomorrow. There are huge bottlenecks within the care, with the funding of the hospitals. We just got a petition. There is hardly any care left in Woerden. This isn't going well, Mr. Chairman, and this is gonna get ugly. In any case, 50PLUS believes that the Minister should be much more committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	With a great deal of strength, I conduct these discussions with all the collective bargaining parties involved, on the labour market and on the workers' side. I also hope that I can finish it very quickly. At least I'm gonna need the day of tomorrow for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you.
