ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management. I would also like to welcome visitors to the public gallery and all those who are following this debate in a different way. The next item is the continuation of the debate on the infrastructure and water resources budget. Yesterday, the first deadline on the part of the Chamber took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	I now give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Members of Parliament for their input, their compliments and their questions from yesterday. We have heard a lot of things come across, from odes to the car to odes to public transport, but also queues at the Efteling and Mr Moorlag's very first car I don't know where he has gone now; I saw him walking just now which he was so happy with. So it has been a very diverse debate. This also means that a wide range of issues will be dealt with shortly, including in the response. I'll start with a general introduction. Then I will divide the answer to the questions into a few blocks, namely: road safety; that is what I start with; management and parental care; roads; maritime, aviation; and then another block, which, of course, contains a broad collection. Mr. Chairman. What I tasted widely with everyone yesterday is that we are in a hurry and are working very hard. It's a hectic time with big challenges. The Secretary of State and I travel around the country a lot and we see a lot of initiatives everywhere. The sleeves are up and all hands are on deck. There really is a spirit to deal with things. Last week, the World Economic Forum came up with great news: The Netherlands is Europe's most competitive economy for the first time. Globally, only Singapore, the US and Hong Kong are ahead of us. According to the institute WEF, this is partly due to our infrastructure, because it is world-class, so the institute says. As directors of IenW, we are of course extremely pleased with such a compliment. Infrastructure is the foundation of a thriving economy, as it turns out. But yesterday you all pointed out in different terms that on the road, on the platforms and on the bike paths we also see the downside of that economic success. It is extremely crowded; even outside the rush hour the traffic jams are growing. Every day, it's hard work to get everyone home safe and sound, work, school, etc. Safe and smooth: these are the key words. The hustle and bustle presents us with a huge challenge in both areas. Of course, we want traffic to be safer. Road safety is a top priority. You know my ambition of zero road casualties. Every victim is one too many. Also in the coming year, 2020, this will require the full commitment of all parties, from governments and co-governments to civil society organisations. In the road safety block, I will discuss this with you in a moment. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to safety and smoothness, despite the compliments of the World Economic Forum, I also come to our infrastructure. There were quite a lot of questions about that yesterday. In fact, we have an infrastructure that is rapidly ageing, an infrastructure that is going through a lot more traffic and is also being taxed by freight traffic, which is much heavier than what it was designed for. That is why I have made a sharp choice in this budget. We are going to start with the largest table of contents ever in Dutch history. We are going to rejuvenate, renew and sustain, and we are going to prepare all our old bridges, tunnels, roads, viaducts and not to mention technical installations for the future. This is good for road traffic, but it is also good for inland waterway transport. Many Members of Parliament spoke about this and I will pay great attention to it later. The Secretary of State and I want the base in order. We are making extra money for it and we have additional EUR 2.6 billion earmarked for possible risks. At the same time, we are also fully engaged in expanding our road network. Until 2030, as many as 1,000 kilometres of lanes are added: new connections and wider roads. We are also dealing with the problem of nitrogen, as you know. That is what we are going to debate next to this budget debate. There has been a lot of unrest in the country. In fact, you have all thought about that. There is unrest among the farmers, as we have seen throughout the country in recent days, and also among the people who work in construction. In both cases, it matters to me. We are currently working hard as a cabinet on solutions that do justice to nature and at the same time keep our country moving. Mr President, I am almost finishing my introduction. From nitrogen and nature it is still a small step towards climate and climate adaptation. I would also like to say a few words about progress. Both nationally and internationally, I have worked very hard to set in motion climate adaptation movements, and also to ensure that we adapt not only in the Netherlands but throughout the world to the consequences of climate change. We have concluded a national climate adaptation governance agreement. In the meantime, every municipality is really working and we already have the solutions in sight for a very large part. You all know, of course, that on my initiative, at international level, we have also launched a movement with the arrival of the Global Commission on Adaptation. In a year's time, on 22 October, everything will come together in Amsterdam in the global Climate Action Summit. Mrs Van Brenk has been referring to this for a while. That is a beautiful stage that I really want to use to put Dutch knowledge and skills in the shop window internationally. To put it in the words of Mrs Van Brenk, I really intend to make a big deal out of that. Action instead of response! I suggest that we go into this in more detail at the Water legislative consultation on 11 November. On all these fronts, i.e. road safety, maintenance, infrastructure construction and climate adaptation, we are far from there. The challenges are enormous. It's real work in progress. Mr. Chairman. Those were my introductory words. I would now like to start with the first block, road safety. As I did yesterday, the Chamber expressed its concern about the development of the number of road accidents in the Netherlands. All Members of Parliament have rightly asked for this because the number of victims has increased. I find that terrible, because behind these dry figures there is indescribably much suffering. We must therefore try to improve road safety with all the weapons we have. We have already introduced a number of major new campaigns. You know them all. Think of MONO against distractions in traffic. We have now also launched a campaign towards employers. I think you agree with me that it is shocking that one in ten employers expect their own employees not only to read messages but also to answer them while driving. That is really not possible, so the MONO campaign is not enough to bring to the attention of all of us. I say to every employer once more: go to MONO business, because there you can all read tips on how to do this better. Most of them just haven't made agreements with the employees about how to deal with this. Since last July, the ban on apps on bicycles has also started. We can see that quite a number of fines have already been issued. In addition, the Bob campaign against alcohol in traffic continues. In addition, new challenges are constantly emerging. Team Alert will start a campaign against nitrous oxide in traffic in the coming year. That's the latest development. You think: how do people get so crazy to think that you can just use it behind the wheel or short notice? We also have a targeted approach for older people on the bike. The programme Stairs is a very good example of this. Together with my colleague from JenV, the other co-governments, the social partners and with extensive input from your Chamber, we have created a new Strategic Road Safety Plan 2030. Mr Dijkstra and Mr Stoffer and Mrs De Pater also spoke about this. Each municipality and every province in the Netherlands is working on a clear list showing at which intersection and on which route the risk of an accident is greatest. We're really gonna take that risk-driven approach. Traffic experts are also available from the Empire. A knowledge network for targeted measures and tailor-made work in the neighbourhood has been established in which everyone can learn from each other. On 4 December, for the first time, an administrative consultation will take place which will focus fully on road safety. I repeat, this really is a unique thing. We're going through this for the first time. My commitment is that after that everyone goes home with a list of concrete agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	There is an interruption by Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yesterday, in my first term on road safety, I started with: not words, but actions. I have now waited and listened to the Minister. I hear a lot of words, but I don't see that coming back in action. And by "deeds," I mean this. I hear the minister on the local, underlying road network. I've asked some questions about the N36. Then you just get the answer that it's not a priority. From that point of view, how am I supposed to indicate that the Minister is serious about what to do about road safety when no action is taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	I just mentioned a lot of actions and I wasn't finished with the list. I'll get back to it in a minute. You're asking about the N-roads. At the start of this cabinet, we allocated EUR 50 million extra to the N-roads, half to the N-roads, half to the provinces. I just described to you that we are committed to a risk-driven approach. We did that to the Empire. In the provinces they now have that battle largely ready, so that they also know for which projects, whatever N-roads, they apply to us for the grants. That is what we are going to discuss more closely at the MIRT meeting. During this MIRT round, of course, we will make concrete agreements with the provinces, because they now know where the biggest risks lie and which N-paths they want to tackle, including with our subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	I like it all, but we've had this kind of discussion about N-roads and road safety for years. Emergency calls are coming from local authorities. I think it's a bit of a shame the Minister's taking this off a little bit. If she really wants to do something about those accidents and those road deaths, I'd really just like to meet a number with her. How many fewer road deaths do you want next year? So not zero in 2030 or 2035, but how many less do you want next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	We have just agreed that we no longer see those nasty numbers, those targets, ahead of us. You shouldn't want that. You must always want to go to zero. The trend is up. So the first thing we need to achieve now is that the trend is going down, that it's not going up any further. You also know that traffic is becoming more and more crowded. That means more vehicles on the road. Fortunately, people are on their way to a job and more goods are being produced, all of which have to be transported. The more traffic, the more accidents, unfortunately. We're also dealing with an ageing population. If an accident occurs, the consequences are often more serious, as you know. Those are all effects that you have to take into account. You say we've been talking about N-roads for years, but we haven't had that 50 million extra since this cabinet start. Enforcement is, of course, also very important when it comes to road safety. Mrs De Pater and Mr Dijkstra made comments on this. As you know, I am doing this together with JenV's colleague, who is, of course, primarily responsible for police enforcement. It is also really the police's commitment to increasing the number of standing positions. The approach of repeaters is priority, in addition to alcohol, red light, speed and distraction. I also think it is very good that Mr Grapperhaus has launched new initiatives in this area over the past year, such as the smart cameras and the possibility for the police to record on a car from a coach or from a skibox. So there are really new developments going on. On the provincial roads it is now also possible to work with road checks. You couldn't have done that before. We also need to see what effect it has, but everything is being set in motion. From Rijkswaterstaat we can also do a lot ourselves. We have doubled the number of road inspectors who are also boa and are allowed to issue fines. They may, as you know, do so for ignoring a red cross or driving on the escape lane. There is also intensive monitoring to ensure compliance with the new ban on bicycle taps. Since it entered July 1st, 9,200 fines have already been issued. So there are campaigns, new laws and our own infrastructure. Everywhere we build new infrastructure, of course, we do so with state-of-the-art knowledge about safety. We're in enforcement. We have a lot of different weapons and we use them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Minister points out a number of points. That's very good. One of the points I mentioned yesterday is those fast Audi's. This point has not yet been answered, as Minister Grapperhaus of course has to answer it. The point is that you have standing positions. I've seen the number go back from 100,000 to 20,000 this year. That's a really big drop. Let's do everything we can to increase the chances of getting caught and make the police visible on the highway. The Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid also indicates that this is one of the causes, in addition to distractions in traffic, which makes it feel like a free pass to do anything on the highway. I would ask the Minister to continue his efforts with her colleague for Justice and Security, because it is really an essential thing if we are to guarantee safety on the highway and to tackle the traffic hubs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	I can only underline Mr Dijkstra's plea. It's really full-bodied. Enforcement is extremely important. I would like to add the schools. I would therefore like to look at Mrs Kröger, who has drawn more attention to this in the past. We are also in consultation with OCW, because it starts very young. I was not allowed to present the new booklet Fiep in traffic until during the Children's Book Week at a childcare facility in The Hague. I think people underestimate how important it is to teach children traffic rules. It is not just security, which is of course crucial, but it is one of the first times that a child comes into contact with government rules. That's why it's very good to get the mindset to just stick to laws and rules. That starts very tangible in children; when they come out, it has to do with traffic. I think this is an additional reason to pay attention to traffic education, that you adhere to rules from a young age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	However, I would like to continue on the chance of getting things right, because it is so very important to get the behavior, the standards and values, right again in traffic. I am getting quite different signals from the police, namely that they are no longer given the priority of enforcing these anti-social traffic offences. So from the field, I see a different picture than you just outlined. I would urge the Minister to sit down again with her colleague from the Justice Department and see how these priority rules work out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	I am always prepared to speak to Mr Grapperhaus specifically about this once again. He needs to weigh up a lot of police priorities. His commitment is to make a full effort on this. We must also remember the old images of the white police Porsches of the past, which people saw visible on the highways, that at that time a lot of other means, such as cameras, were not there. So we have not only deteriorated in this respect. So less physical police on the highways, and again, I'd like to talk to you about whether that can't be done any better. But we must also make the most of all the new resources that we did not have at the time. Mr Dijkstra also asked what happened to the Road Safety Strategic Plan. He asked me how far I am, how we mobilise municipalities and provinces to do more about road safety. I can say that fortunately it is not something that only the Empire attracts. At the regional meetings that we organised for this purpose, from the knowledge networks, the turnout was truly unprecedentedly high, full rooms. So provinces and municipalities are also really working hard on the risk analyses I'm going to discuss with them in December. I support the co-governments in this regard too. And as I indicated in the written reply, the 10 million that your Chamber made available last year is to a large extent used for this. That's how I set up that knowledge network and made traffic experts available. It is used for innovative pilots, such as a pilot focused on the use of road safety data in the traffic apps. Finally, I am also working hard to implement our own National Road Safety Action Plan, which, of course, includes the MONO campaign and the ban on apps. I expect that in December we will go a long way further with the risk analyses of municipalities and provinces where these dangerous intersections are located.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you to the Minister for the explanation of the Road Safety Strategic Plan. She goes with the municipalities and provinces to look at the risk-based approach. Last year, too, I drew attention to one of the measures that could be taken, namely the targeted installation of flash cameras. I get back from municipalities that they have to pay all the costs for that camera and that they have a lot of trouble and hassle through it, but that the proceeds go to the state treasury and that the municipalities see nothing for it. Would you like to draw attention to this once again from your colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, when you are working on that risk-driven plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	I will put together a shopping list of matters that I will discuss with Mr Grapperhaus. I recognize this point. It's been under discussion for years. I think that Mr Grapperhaus has taken an important step by experimenting with radar checks on provincial roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Dijkstra. Or no, first the question to the Minister is whether the road safety block has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	No, I have some questions for Members of Parliament to answer about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	Then perhaps we shall see Mr Dijkstra in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Stoffer asked where the financial paragraph of the Road Safety Strategic Plan remains. I refer you to the first real administrative consultation on road safety on 4 December. Then maybe you'll say, "God, what is such an administrative consultation about road safety?" That has to do with me having the water wallet, too. The people who follow that well know that the Water Administrative Consultation is very successful. We have all kinds of parties at our table, from Vewin to the Union of Water Councils, IPO and VNG. We'll make good deals together. I now use this good model by getting all the parties involved in road safety together. In that consultation, we are looking very closely at the financing structure, as your Chamber has requested. A further study is under way on the BDU, the broad target benefit. That is what Mr von Martels asked for at the time. Did the provinces use this benefit to a sufficient extent in terms of infrastructure and road safety? I will inform you more about the results of the BDU study and the administrative consultation on road safety prior to the AO Road Safety in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	Then there's the key question to the Minister. Is the financial paragraph there on 5 December?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	I understand that you specifically mention the date December 5th...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	The meeting is on December 4th, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yeah, yeah. I don't know exactly when it's road safety, but we'll make sure you get that insight. I can't say we'll have it done the next day. I honestly don't think we're gonna make it. Mr Stoffer also asked: how does the Minister see SWOV's report on highway traffic enforcement and what is the outcome of the police pilot on the road to keep unsafe drivers? Of course, I have also looked at SWOV's report with great interest. The report was made by order of police and science. The pilots in this study lasted six weeks. They have led to about 600 standing positions for violations. I find that an impressive number. On the one hand, it is a good sign that there have been so many standing positions, but that it was so many violations, is, of course, also a bad sign in itself. I would like to discuss the conclusions, and I would like to see something come up again in the consultation with my colleague in the Justice Department, to see if this could be a reason to roll this out further. Mrs De Pater has asked very specific questions about how the Minister looks at the police being allowed to use the Rijkswaterstaat cameras that hang over the highway, in order to increase the chances of traffic offenders. That too concerns enforcement. I'll have to discuss it with the Justice and Security Officer. It is true that the current cameras hanging over the roads should not be used for that purpose at the moment, but you had already noticed that yourself. Enforcement can only happen with cameras installed by JenV. The cameras of Rijkswaterstaat are really meant to promote the flow. Images of it are not stored either. With the cameras of Rijkswaterstaat it is also technically not possible to detect violations, because they are just too coarse, to say the least domestic. You can't even recognize the plates. I think it is a very sympathetic proposal, which I would like to discuss with JenV's colleague to see if it can be implemented and whether it can be financially and legally and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u23	I hear a commitment on my proposal to work this out. Can the Minister work it out before AO Road Safety so we can talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u24	As you have just understood, I have a lot of issues to discuss with Mr Grapperhaus. I'm gonna make an appointment with him, and I'm a little dependent on what comes out of there. You say I'm gonna work it out, but I'm just gonna have the conversation with him. What is financially, legally and technically possible? In any case, I can assure you that I will report to you before the Road Safety Agency what the discussion with my colleague has resulted in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u25	I referred to this yesterday in an interrupting debate. On RTL News, so just public news, I read that a pilot with a smart camera was held on the A20 to test exactly what the CDA is proposing. I can't find the results of that anywhere. Can those outcomes come to us, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u26	I can just promise that we will take that with us in our feedback to Mrs De Pater's questions. I come to Mrs Van Brenn and Mrs De Pater's questions on the CBR. Mrs De Pater asked about the CBR's coulance scheme. Has the software been tested yet? Can we put ticks in the system yet? When can the law come into force? Fortunately, the technical implementation is proceeding as planned. The first technical tests have been carried out and will continue during the course of this week. After that, I can only really say whether the tests have been successful or whether small adjustments are still needed. Last Monday's letter states that it is proposed to extend the AMvB on a single point. This supplement means that, in parallel with the extension of the administrative validity of the driving licence, I also extend the time limit for the declaration of suitability in the Central Driving Licence Register by one year. Otherwise, you'd get the weird situation that people can hold you liable for time-out, while you'd like to use that time-out to keep driving. So we're still adjusting that. This means that, in the meantime, the CBR can fully focus on preventing expired driving licences and on trying to get through the mountain, through the backlog. I'll come back to the term question. I would like to refer the draft decision to the Council of State on Monday 21 October for an urgent opinion. I do not know if you have received this, but the First Chamber has asked a number of questions which have meant that we have moved on a bit over time. But I am still aiming for entry into force on 1 December, and every week that it can be done earlier is a good thing, but that also depends, of course, on the response we get back from the Council of State. Mrs Van Brenk asked if it really works on 1 December. She also wants to know what is actually being paid. The CBR already reimbursed double costs, such as an additional health certificate, and the costs of an additional inspection and an urgent application for a driving licence. The increase in compensation by the CBR includes the following additional items: extra travel costs if travel expenses have been incurred, two additional driving lessons for exam candidates who have suffered due to too long lead times, and other demonstrable costs caused by the problems; I would like to stress the word'showable'. Both the CBR and the RDW have indicated that, as I have just said in the direction of Mrs De Pater, the technical implementation is still proceeding according to schedule. Mrs Van Brenk referred to the treatment in the Upper House. I did not promise to go abroad, because I have also been able to convince the First Chamber that this is not a passable road. What I did promise is that I would check with the CBR on the following. If people, to name but a few, have a sick family member who lives across the border, and if they state at the CBR that they are dependent on driving abroad and can explain why, can they be given priority? That was the bet. At the request of the First Chamber, therefore, I also asked the CBR. The CBR indicates that in that case someone, if appropriate... No, I can't quite place this answer. The question has been left out by the CBR, but I haven't got the answer yet. I should like to ask you today whether it might be possible to clarify this during this day, so that I may be able to say a little more about it in the second term. I see here that the response of the CBR has not yet been received. Then Mrs. De Pater asked about the carers. What can the Minister do to prevent problems from arising there? The CBR has posted information material on the website on the possibilities of priority for carers on the indication of the Chamber. It also expanded that information. After all, Mrs De Pater is absolutely right that this is a target group that cannot be approached very easily. No one has a name that says he's a caretaker. Therefore, it was also chosen to actively approach the elderly associations, ANBO and KBO, and the ANWB to bring that information to the attention of their supporters. Furthermore, we are going to make this clear through MantelzorgNL, the association for carers, in order to bring this to the attention as widely as possible. Mr President, I would have gone through the road safety block now, I thought... No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u27	Not quite yet. At least there are a few more questions. First of all, Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u28	Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Road Safety) calculated the social damage of road victims and accidents a few years back to about 14 billion, I believe. It is good that we have that Strategic Plan and that we spent the 10 million we spent last year well. But cooperation is essential, with the municipalities and with the provinces. We can do something, but 80%, 90% of the victims are just in those municipalities and in those provinces. What I want is for the VNG and the IPO, municipalities and provinces, to draw the wallet. You can see that road safety and infrastructure have really been reduced in municipal budgets. They just don't have time for that anymore, no more money for it or anything. How are we going to mobilise these millions, or perhaps much more, in the municipalities and in the provinces? Can you come back to that at the administrative consultation that you have? That is where I expect the action to take place. We can want anything, but they have to do it eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Dijkstra really has a point. He stressed once again that most of the accidents occurred on the provincial and municipal road network. I am glad that we are beginning to see the successes of the subject being higher on the political agenda. That was already the case here in the Chamber. During the last period I have been a minister, we have had municipal elections, in which many of you have drawn attention to road safety in your own party line. You can see that, in one municipality more than in the other, it is a little more prominent in the municipal agreements. We then had elections at provincial level. I notice that the figures in the provinces are really shocked by how the number of victims on the provincial and municipal road network has developed in the different provinces and that it is also given more attention in the provincial programmes. It's never enough for me. It could have been even better, but I'm glad it's getting a little more attention there. Again, the interest in the regional meetings was overwhelming. That is a good sign, because that means that there is a lot of administrative power on it. I hope that the BDU investigation into what they have done with the resources they are getting for infrastructure and road safety will give a little more insight. I think it is important that we set up this administrative consultation, because we meet regularly on the subject of road safety. I hope that there will then be some kind of infectiousness, inspiration over and over again because you see what one province does what results and what the other does, so that you push each other together and money will be spent on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Dijkstra for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u31	I think it is important that the urgency goes up. There may be a lot of enthusiasm for it, but ultimately it is about how we politicians know how to transfer it to our colleagues in the provinces and municipalities that this is an important point, because the social damage is so much greater. How are we going to stimulate that? What role does the Minister see for himself towards the municipal authorities, especially the large municipalities, and the provincial authorities, in getting this more prominent in these college agreements, coalition agreements and budgets? Again, they must do it, but the urgency must be raised. We shouldn't just talk to each other a lot, but we should do it. Two: I think we ourselves have a role to play, for example when it comes to sharing and making data available. It starts with that insight, of course, but the political awareness really needs to go up. What can the Minister do about these two points?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u32	It starts, of course, by placing it on the agenda and now by organising the administrative consultation where this is the subject. Everyone sits there to talk about road safety and not about all kinds of other issues, about N-weg x or y, but only if the risk analysis indicates that there is a road safety problem. The second point you mention, about the dates, is also extremely important. We are also trying to take steps there. We are also looking at this in the context of smart mobility cooperation. It is almost impossible at this time to explain to citizens that the data on accidents are not easily interchangeable between the municipality, the province and the Empire. I think that we have taken a nice step at the ITS conference in Eindhoven in the context of smart mobility over the past year. There we saw for the first time that different countries, different car brands and navigation companies have agreed: we do not want to compete on road safety; we are going to share that data. So if there has been an accident somewhere or if it is slippery, which, of course, is always dangerous, then we will go independently of those car brands that share information to alert people in good time. I think those are good developments. This is all gonna take some time, but we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u33	One question has not been answered at all and the other half in the written answer. Thank you for that. I made two points. One was, why don't we go for an emergency stop button on every scooter? And the other question that has not been raised at all with the Minister is the following. We have proposed that the penalty should be reduced in the case of traffic offences or traffic hoodlums in order to discourage them. An income-dependent fine we have mentioned or a point system and the temporary taking of the driving licence. Is the Minister still able to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u34	It sounds a bit like I'm repeating myself, but that also has to do with enforcement. On fines and the level of fines, I have to consult with my colleague from the Justice Department. Mr Grapperhaus has already put in motion a bill to tighten up the reckless, asshole behavior. But I'd like to promise that I'll take that with me in the conversation. For the general consultation on road safety, in which, as you know, Mr Grapperhaus is always present, I will discuss these points with him, and I shall come back to that. Then the emergency button. I'm gonna take a quick look to see if it's accidentally in my folder, but he's not in it either. If it's all right with you, I'll check it out and I'll come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u35	I always like to hear that road safety is a priority and that much is being done with digital enforcement. I was also looking at the written reply. There I came across an answer about using the matrix boards to indicate the speed. I was chewing on that and thought: it's actually a very official, traffic-related answer. It says, "We've always been like this." I know there's a record of where and how you put traffic signs. That's called beautiful, too. We often have one of those sub-signs below 130 with 100. There's a lot of things there. That's how we do it. It's all true that we're doing it this way. These matrix boards are now being used to indicate alternative speeds, but my question is actually a political question: is the Minister prepared to see if we can use those matrix boards to indicate the speed you need to drive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u36	In doing so, you encounter very practical objections. I've asked that myself once before. It may not apply to all matrix boards, but for some reason it is not physically possible to get three numbers next to each other. They're only capable of showing two, so you couldn't go beyond 90. You are right that you could include that in a tender for a next category of matrix boards. I would like to ask again at Rijkswaterstaat in more detail whether this could be done, but that is the way it is now. I very much agree with you that it is, of course, also very important for road safety that people always know where to speed. New technology also helps, because in many navigation systems the speed is always indicated. This is also happening more and more in real time, for example if there is a lower speed due to road activity or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u37	The Flashmeister apps also provide more and more information about the current speed. But I'm gonna tell you to take another look at if there's anything we can do with those matrix boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u38	The word "CBR." We've all noticed that it's still a hell of a gang out there and it's not really getting along. We have discussed here that if we, as Members of Parliament, brought in poignant cases that had been resolved very quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have a feeling your microphone isn't working. I couldn't quite hear what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u40	From the harrowing cases that we as Members of Parliament could bring forward, we have said that we should not. That has also stopped, but now poignant cases are not resolved at all. In the meantime, professional drivers have reported to me that the priority scheme for professional drivers apparently no longer applies to everyone. What are we gonna do now? It is nice that this minister now appoints all kinds of exhilarating directors, but what is the plan of action for the CBR? When are these people gonna be able to count on everything to be in order? 'Cause I don't have a picture of that anymore, and I don't think the Minister does anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u41	Well, the picture is in the rather comprehensive report that we have forwarded to you and will continue to send to you in accordance with the agreement with the Chamber, allowing you to see how it develops. The qualifications you give me in this respect, I'm really gonna leave it at your disposal. I am very pleased that Mr Pechtold is now going to form the board together with Mr Huizing. I think it is wonderful that both gentlemen are sitting here in the gallery. This shows how motivated they are to really get to work with this and to improve as quickly as possible. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u42	There's a difference of opinion between you and me: you're glad they're here, I'd rather they were at the CBR to clean up the mess. I like that all these reports are coming, but I just want to set a deadline for all those people who are sitting at home and can't drive because they can't get a health statement. Otherwise, the minister just has to intervene hard and hard, because it's just a hell of a gang. That has to be solved, doesn't it? Surely the Minister must agree with us that this misery must be over as soon as possible? But don't do that with reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u43	Nor did I claim that the solution lies in reports. By the way, I should like to inform you that Mr Pechtold, who has not even officially begun, is already sitting here in the public gallery. I really think that's a good bet. Of course, we all agree that it is a question of resolving the problems. They're working hard on that. The only reason we have these reports is, of course, to give you the opportunity to follow that closely through insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u44	On a point of order: I am happy that Mr Pechtold has not yet started, but with Mr Huizing we really had a discussion, in which he said, among other things, that he had seen all the misery coming, but that there had not been any intervention. Then I find it regrettable that he is sitting in the gallery instead of solving the misery at the CBR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u45	I will leave that on Mr Van Aalst's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u46	I'd like to continue at the CBR. I am very pleased that the Minister indicates that more will be done to remind the carers that if they need a driving licence to provide care, they can actually apply for it earlier. The Minister has taken up the arrangement we asked as a Chamber to meet the delegates, sorry those who have waited a very long time for a driving licence and have incurred additional costs. When I was visiting the CBR the other day, I also asked: do you have enough resources with all the extra things that needed to be done, such as ICT systems, extra people and Mr Pechtold who has now been adopted? And can the Minister promise that she will do whatever it takes to ensure that the people who have applied for a driving licence get it on time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u47	First of all, the confusion about that word sounds very familiar to me, because when I became a deputy in a gray past, one of my children at school proudly told me that mother became a detainee. That's always fresh in my memory! Are the financial resources of the CBR sufficient? Of course, the own funds of the CBR are not inexhaustible. So we all have to keep a close eye on whether things don't get out of hand. The important thing is that we solve the problems. I also agree with the House that there should be a proper coulance regime. We need to keep a close watch on this, because it's not gonna do us any good if the CBR goes out of business. This does not solve the problems for those who urgently need a driving licence. We'll keep our finger on the pulse here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u49	Then I'm gonna move on to... No?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mrs Kröger has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u51	I was waiting for the speed limit to be dealt with. Perhaps the Minister, who here and in writing stated in the coalition agreement that the maximum speed would not be reduced...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u52	Shall we do that in the block? I think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u53	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u54	And this isn't one of the eight, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u55	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u56	Then I'll do the management and maintenance block first, Mr. Chairman. As I said in the introduction, the basis must of course remain in order, because our infrastructure is also the foundation of a thriving economy. In 2020, I will pay EUR 3 billion for construction, management and maintenance of roads. Because car traffic is still growing rapidly and trucks are becoming increasingly heavily taxed and increasingly full. That is good in itself, but it also brings with it challenges for infrastructure. As we have discussed before, a very large part of the bridges, tunnels, roads and viaducts from the 1950s and 1960s stem from the bridges, tunnels, roads and viaducts. They all need a refreshment in a short period of time to stay safe and reachable. In addition, of course, we also have new challenges. We want to make it more sustainable. We have the challenges surrounding cybersecurity, which weren't there in the 1950s and 1960s, but we do now. And we strive for maximum maintenance efficiency. Mr Dijkstra has asked: can smart techniques, better procurement, innovation and sustainable asphalt be included in the procurement process? The standard method is to give space to new, smart techniques and sustainability and innovation. They should contribute to the objectives of IenW. It must, of course, also fit within the resources and capacity available; that makes sense. The procurement policy is already being used for innovation. I do not see Mr Schonis right now, but we have often talked about the fact that Rijkswaterstaat as a launching customer can also achieve a great deal because they have such a large part of the projects to spend. If Rijkswaterstaat prescribes something, it is soon worth investing in it for companies. For sustainability, the green deal for sustainable soil, road and water construction can also be considered, whereby we buy with the CO ladder and include environmental costs in the scoring for procurement. A good example, which you yourself mentioned, is the sustainable asphalt. Within my department, also in the framework of launching customer, we are working on substantial sustainability gains through innovations for asphalt and concrete. For example, in the 28 countries, for example, I do not need to explain this to you, but perhaps for the people who follow this debate elsewhere: this is very open asphalt concrete concrete. In addition, we have also launched a competition for asphalt innovations that go much further in terms of sustainability and save even more CO2. It also accelerates and validates sustainable asphalt in test subjects on a limited scale. Testing is, of course, also a necessary step before we can apply innovations in a structural way, because also for road safety I'm going back to the previous topic of course it's important that the asphalt stays safe, that it retains the right roughness and so on. Accelerating the testing of that asphalt concrete means that more durable variants can also become available more quickly. We have already informed you about this through the Kamerbrief about the progress of sustainable transitions and launching customership on 14 October. Mrs Van Brenk specifically asked about the cybersecurity of the vital waterworks. Does the Council of State's PAS statement also have an impact on water safety? The Court of Auditors noted this spring that, although Rijkswaterstaat has done a lot of work on the cybersecurity of these vital waterworks, a number of improvements are still needed. I also informed you in the debate we had on this subject that I am taking over all the recommendations. These actions have been launched, and some of the measures have already been implemented. In accordance with the motion tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Geurts, I will evaluate the recommendations for the summer of 2020 and, of course, forward the results to you. Vital waterworks are not affected by the Council of State's PAS statement, because necessary improvements and adjustments to these vital objects can simply be carried out as planned. On Monday, I was allowed to give the start of the grand maintenance operation in Noord-Holland. One of these projects concerns, for example, a meal, which ensures that a large part of North Holland does not run under water. Of course, our entire safety, the ability to keep dry feet, cannot be put at risk. Safety must not therefore be at stake, because it goes for everything. You also asked about the maintenance of the infrastructure. How are we going to deal with this table of contents, if we know that at Rijkswaterstaat, too, the number of employees will be under pressure as a result of the natural outflow? There too, of course, an ageing population plays a role. Fortunately, for the short term, we have sufficiently well-trained staff at Rijkswaterstaat. I indicated to you in the letter on conservation last June that for the longer term I will also have an examination of what is needed to ensure that management and maintenance are properly carried out. Of course, the necessary human capacity is an important part of this. The term 'Human Capital Agenda' has been used for this purpose, but of course it is simply a good staff policy, also towards the future. I remember you were excited about a work visit you made there. Mr Stoffer, who always tells us with a lot of fire and enthusiasm about his time at Rijkswaterstaat, is our representative. I think we should continue to radiate that in order to get people excited about it. If you are interested in technology, choose Rijkswaterstaat or one of the other partners. Moreover, when you talk about meaning, you have a very important task and contribute to the future of your country. I think that's a very beautiful combination, and everyone should want to work there. Mr. Chairman. That was the block of management and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u57	I'll take a look at the members to see if there are any questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u58	Two more dots, though. Perhaps I am incomplete or not well informed, but I do get stories that the CO-neutral asphalt, which can currently be supplied by one firm, is not used, because it can only be delivered by one company. With that you would think that anyone who innovates something new will think: why should I do it, because Rijkswaterstaat will not go with us anyway. I would like an answer to that. And I think that the Minister is getting over my point slightly lightly that the builders have actually said: I do not know if I still want these invitations to tender from Rijkswaterstaat, because the risks are being placed very unilaterally with us. That's really a big concern. If those two points can still be addressed, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u59	The first point Mrs Van Brenk makes is actually a chicken egg story. As long as the offer is not available, Rijkswaterstaat cannot prescribe it by default, and as long as Rijkswaterstaat does not prescribe it by default, all contractors will not invest in it. We are also in agreement with the sector on this. We are trying to stimulate what is all about innovations with even fewer CO emissions as much as possible. We are also expressly in agreement with the markets on how to ensure that what we prescribe is realistic and can be delivered. As soon as we can, we also really want to make choices so that it gets mass and it pays to invest in it. The other point you mention has to do with the risks. Luckily, we can say that this problem with a lot of projects, let's say 80% of projects, that's just a rough estimate of what's going on here, because it's all about more or less standard work in terms of management and maintenance. The risks are simply sufficient in the picture, and they are also fully registered. The problem lies mainly in the very large, complex projects, the risks of which are much less well-assessed. We also discussed this with the market on the basis of the McKinsey report, which you also know. We are now choosing to run these tenders in two stages. We will first go much further together, so that much better is in the picture what the risks are and we will be able to determine in a good risk analysis which part of the risks is for the Empire and which part for the builder. We're really working on that in a different way now. We'll have to see how that develops. That's a little learning by doing, too. But we've moved away from the credo "we're gonna spend the problem and the market is gonna sign up with a solution," because that's just not the right way for these big, complex projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u60	Just one more point. The minister calls it chicken egg; I call it "what the farmer doesn't know, he doesn't eat." But I am concerned that those companies that stick their necks out, which have beautiful new innovations and develop beautiful things, the forerunners, will also have a real chance. So my question to the Minister is once again: does she have the idea that that is sufficiently secure and between the ears is at Rijkswaterstaat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u61	I am overwhelmed that this is really between the ears at Rijkswaterstaat, but I will draw attention to that again, because that is really the stake. That is also what the Secretary of State has to do, because of course it has everything to do with the circular economy. We're all in this together. When I opened a circular viaduct, but couldn't at the last minute, the Secretary of State took over seamlessly. We are also fully interchangeable on that subject and both have the same drive. This applies not only to RWS, but also to ProRail, of course. We are looking at how we can stimulate sustainability and circularity in all sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u62	The VVD would like to solve the problems we have, or in the future to know much more about mobility. I am pleased to read that capacity analyses and cost-benefit analyses remain leading. I also see a huge opportunity in the investment fund, with which R&D, innovation and artificial intelligence but also infra are really promising. I hope you are committed to this. There is, however, something that I read in the answer, have questions about and are reluctant about. It is rightly stated that physical infrastructure, of course, rail or road transport, is not always the solution. It's partly about behavior, but I'm really afraid that we're going to bet our money on "Better Benutten"-like applications in which you don't get anything tangible back and you don't see anything and everything ends when the project stops, so that the files are back. I think we should continue to invest, including in those hard asphalt, hard rail connections and everything, and be careful that we do all kinds of projects that sound fun and are very innovative but the effect of which is simply limited. Does the Minister share that opinion with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u63	You can be assured that both the Secretary of State and I still have sufficient wishes for new projects and that we will really be sitting on the box as far as the new fund is concerned. If we see any chance of getting our projects that we would like into them, we are, of course, at the forefront. On the other hand, it also makes sense that you have to make sure that what you have remains in good condition. That's what it starts with. We are now also fully committed to ensuring that the basics are in order, because if it leads to disturbances in bridges and so on, it also causes a lot of congestion and a lot of social and economic damage. That's what it starts with. In addition, of course, we do a lot of things that you may not see and which you say: what good is it? Let me mention just one thing: we have the salvagers in a strategic position, which, in the event of an accident or an accident, leads to obstacles being faster off the road. You may not see that, but that is of course also something you can put under Better Benutten. Also the fact that more boas can now issue fines at Rijkswaterstaat, so you hope that people no longer drive under red crosses, should promote the flow. These are all measures in the sphere of Better Benutten, which are not directly related to the construction of new infrastructure. So it really is an en-en-en commitment: both on the roads and on the waterways as well as on the track we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u64	It's a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yeah, we're gonna get to the block. I think that's a very natural transition now. Almost all Members of Parliament have mentioned it: traffic jams are increasing, even outside rush hour and even if there are no protests. Mr Van Aalst and Mr Dijkstra, among others, have spoken about this. We are also investing heavily to absorb this growth. I call the Blankenburg connection, the A16 and the A1 Apeldoorn-Azelo. I'm not going to list them all, but those are a number of appealing projects. Next year the Gaasperdammer tunnel will be completed. I look forward to that. This is an iconic project, in the middle of Amsterdam-Zuidoost, a wider road across urban areas, in a tunnel and on top of that a beautiful large city park. Not only are we going to combine many functions; we are going to make it much more beautiful there than it was. The problem of nitrogen naturally also affects road construction. Among other things, Mrs Kröger has asked questions about this. We are currently mapping the consequences of this. I will inform your Chamber about this next month, because we will meet on Monday, November 25th, at the MIRT notary meeting. Of course, at the end of the afternoon, we will also discuss the problem of nitrogen in a broader sense with Mr Schouten and Mr Knops. With regard to the measures against congestion, we are, of course, also working on faster measures which will have to give more air in the short term. I just mentioned all the salvagers and the road inspectors who clear the road faster after an accident. But I also call you the new generation of traffic lights, which we install so that traffic can move on and off the highways. We are also taking action against lorries that unnecessarily stop and frustrate by driving into a tunnel when they are actually too high for that. Mr Van Aalst asked a specific question on this: is the Minister going to implement the adopted motion on the N35? I just mentioned all the notebook meeting MIRT. The same notation consultation last year has led to discussions with the province on the updated Route N35, as it is called. I will inform you more about the outcome and the follow-up steps before the next MIRT note meeting next month. Mr President, there is very little in this block, I see. So this was the block of roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u66	But that's where we'd be dealing with speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u67	Yes. I need to see if I have any of that at all. Well, I didn't. Then I'll do it as l'improviste. The questions you have asked about the speed limit are, of course, aimed at bringing them down. We agreed in the government agreement that these speeds remain what they are, taking into account road safety and the environment. In my reply in writing, I believe that nitrogen is, of course, part of the environment. So we're going to take that into account. In the general letter that we sent from the cabinet, I thought on 4 October, we also indicated that, under the leadership of the state's lords, we would look at what this means for the various Natura 2000 sites for the roads passing through them or passing through them and what measures for nitrogen should be taken. But I cannot anticipate that at the moment, because we do not even have the sovereigns working yet. So as soon as we can report on its progress, I will come back to you. But at the moment, the main line is to look at where it can help the nitrogen problem of the various Natura 2000 sites. If that's the case, we're gonna see how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yes, this is exactly the problem I wanted to outline yesterday, namely that this minister will not go beyond a sentence from the coalition agreement and will not move along with a social change. Think of a PAS statement, the fact that we are not achieving the Urgenda targets, the fact that the number of fatalities on the highways is increasing, and the fact that there is a growing social call for the maximum speed to be adjusted generically. I would therefore ask the Minister to identify the benefits of a generic reduction in the maximum speed for climate, road safety and the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u69	I don't recognize myself at all that I'm just holding on to the past. You have also seen that we have reversed the speed increase in a number of places on the Veluwe because of this problem. The example of the A2 is also known to you. And we state in the letter that we are going to see where it may be necessary to reduce this speed along Natura 2000 sites, or in some cases through them. Then that's what we're gonna do. So I don't know why I wouldn't go along with social developments. At the time, in the generic speed increase to 130 we made a broad picture of all the effects. They are, I see now, shared with the Chamber on December 5, 2011. We can also send you a specific reference to the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u70	Again, we have an Urgenda trial. We're not gonna make it to those targets. This cabinet isn't gonna make it to those targets. A generic speed reduction would, according to calculations, account for 1.5 megatons of CO. We have a growing number of road deaths on the highways and we have the PAS problem, and the Minister refers to a 2011 study on increasing the speed limit to 130. I would ask the Minister whether she would like to identify the benefits of a generic reduction in the maximum speed, so that we can then have a debate on whether we consider this desirable. Let's just figure that out real good for once. Each traffic expert learns in class one in traffic science that the best efficiency on the roads is achieved when driving around 90 km/h. I would like to ask this Minister: map the social benefits of a generic reduction in speed limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u71	I have just indicated to Mrs Kröger that, at the time of the increase in speed, of course, the differences between the different speeds were also weighed. That is why the coalition agreement confirmed once again that road safety is the most important criterion in this respect, as well as the environment. Now we have an extra assignment for nitrogen. So we're taking it with us. This may lead to a reduction in speed on certain roads, but for the rest, there has been no sudden change in the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u73	Then I come to the block of maritime and inland waterway transport. Many Members of Parliament have rightly called for attention to be paid to the maritime sector. In fact, you have all expressed your concerns about inland navigation and the threat of reverse modal shift. I'm just gonna explain this to you anyway. This means that instead of what we all want, which is a lot of transport from the road to the water and the railroad, in this case it is about the water, which is precisely going to see shippers trick it again, as it is called, and let the cargo go by the road again. I very much agree with Mr Van Aalst and Mr Laçin, among others, who are calling for vigilance. Water transport is important and deserves all the attention. Mrs. De Pater said that being a skipper is not only a job, but also a way of life. Our country is intertwined with water and, of course, inland waterway transport has a very special role to play in this. In fact, you can actually tell the history of our country on the basis of one inland waterway ship. I don't know if you all know Corine Nijenhuis' book. I'd like to recommend that. The book is called a woman of steel. That's a wonderful biography of the 100-year-old Henriëtte ship. If you read that book, you'll see the country change. The ship then changes gradually to survive. At some point the sails were ironed and an engine was built in. In the next phase, you can see that the ship was extended by 3 meters. It got a new head and a new ass, as the skipper says. You can see it was a ship with nine lives. Actually, it has a lot more lessons for us. For the history of that ship shows that it is a beautiful profession, which is exercised with great love and devotion. It also shows how important innovation is and how difficult it is to make those kind of decisions on your own, especially in times when there is more stress than load. The most important lesson is that going on at the same pace is a loss game. You always need adjustments to the time and new forms of entrepreneurship. Inland waterway transport will continue to do so in the future. In addition, I have taken note of the many emails and messages I have received from the skippers about failures and shortcomings on the waterway network. The General Court of Auditors has, of course, also warned against this. That's why I brought out 100 million from the Infrafonds for a big extra investment in the Dutch waterways. We are going to tackle major bottlenecks, such as the old lock Weurts on the Maas-Waalkanaal and various locks on the main waterway Lemmer-Delfzijl. Money also goes to the docks of the ferry services on the Wadden Sea. One of the great goals of the coalition agreement was a green deal with this sector. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked questions about this, and I also remember Mr Schonis and Mr Stoffer. We had to pull it together, but there is a result with concrete agreements, quantities, names and numbers. This concerns the arrival of inland waterway vessels with zero emission in 2030, the government as launching customer, also here, and a green energy label for ships. Five new business cases for shore power are also being developed in seaports. That is what Mr Paternotte asked for, for example. In addition, in the green deal with the other governments, we are also working on a good infrastructure for alternative, sustainable fuels. That was my introduction to this point. I now have a number of questions to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u74	Perhaps Mr Van Aalst would like to wait for that. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u75	Yeah? Mr Schonis' question was about inland waterway vessels. They often do not get a loan from the bank for a sustainable engine. Doesn't the Minister want to talk to the financial sector to change that? Of course, I have been asked whether I am prepared to make more money available to make inland waterway transport more sustainable. Of course, I am ready to talk to the financial sector, because the ambition of 150 sustainable inland waterway vessels in 2030 is a shared ambition of the parties in the green deal. One of the signatory parties to the green deal is the banking sector. We wanted to involve the financiers in advance, because we also saw the same thing as Mr Schonis pointed out, namely that it is very complicated for a inland waterway shipper to get a loan if he just goes to an individual bank. So it's good that they're on board. The ambition is based on the expectation that the number of zero-emission ships will actually grow steadily in the coming years. This expectation is also based on the fact that market players are increasingly rolling out projects with zero emission ships. You can see that market is really moving. This concerns, for example, the roll-out of electric propulsion based on interchangeable battery containers. One of the containers is the battery complex. But you're also seeing developments with hydrogen fuel cells. As part of the green deal, a subsidy scheme will be available next year to accelerate the sustainability of inland waterway transport. We have EUR 15 million available for this. Whether more money is needed or whether I can make that available, I cannot say at the moment. Let's see how it goes with the 15 million. Then we can always come back to it afterwards. Moreover, it is also clear that a more structural solution is needed to make the entire inland waterway fleet more sustainable. That is why I am committed to the creation of a European sustainability fund for inland waterway transport at international level. I would also like to discuss later with the new Commissioner for Transport on how we can push that off the table. A feasibility study is already under way. It will be completed in the third quarter of next year. Mrs De Pater asked if the Minister could consult with the inland waterway sector in order to create more good berths. I certainly endorse the importance of those good berths. Therefore, there are several studies in the MIRT to address the well-known places where there is a shortage of berths. On the Waal we recently renewed the overnight port near Tuindorp, Lobith. There is also an additional port provided there. On the Merwedes, the Lek and the IJssel there will also be an extension of berths in the coming years. There are also many berths, on the Meuse near Lemmer, on the Rhine-Schelde connection and on the Amsterdam-Rhine Canal. The current projects are now a priority. That is what we always agree with the industry organisations. So we keep an eye on it and continue to talk to them about where and when exactly additional berths are needed. Not everything can be done at the same time, but it is constantly being worked on. Then Mr Paternotte asked questions about cruise ships.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u76	Perhaps it would be wise first to ask Mrs De Pater-Postma a question about this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u77	Yeah, all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'm glad there's attention to those good berths. I am glad to hear that the Minister really sees that inland waterway transport is more of a way of life than anything you do from nine to five. Can the Minister ensure that there is no such sign at those berths with 3x24? So that means you're only allowed to be there for three days. Can the Minister also ensure that there is simply a good opportunity at those berths to dispose of your household waste and that there is also shore power? In addition to a physical place, it is also really a place where you can lie down with pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u79	The problem of this 3x24 is well known. It's a little double. On the one hand, you want to make sure that berths are not taken unnecessarily long, but I also know the rather poignant situations that make someone sick. Then how do you deal with it? So let's just say that I'm going to look at this issue in a little more detail and we're going to inform you about it for the AO Maritime. Well, that seems like the best way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr. Paternotte, I think your question is about to be answered. No? You already know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u81	In any case, it is about the cruise ships, but it is about the previous answer about the green deal and the inland waterway vessels. The Minister says nice things. I also see that she would like to take steps on this: accelerate the 15 million subsidy scheme, work towards a European sustainability fund. That's very nice. Of course, for inland waterway vessels, they want to see this sustainability easier very quickly. It is always difficult to achieve this in the short term with a subsidy scheme. That's why these banks are so important. The Minister has a shopping list for Mr Grapperhaus, but she also speaks quite often, of course, to Mr Hoekstra. Will the Minister include on that shopping list that he also addresses them in his consultation with the banks? It would be nice if the inland waterway vessels were to see a rapid change in this respect. The second question I would like to ask is whether it is possible, from the budget we now have for the sustainability of ships, to prepare the green deal further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u82	I am always happy to discuss the interests of inland waterway transport and the sustainability of inland waterway transport with colleagues. Again, the banks also signed the green deal. Of course, we are going to follow closely whether they are taking action and actually thinking along and making this possible. I would like to ask for a broader focus on this. I'm just gonna stick with the cruise ships and Mr. Paternotte. How long do these polluting cruise ships stay in the inner city and should they not be standard on shore power? That is a very good question, because cruise ships often dock in the inner cities because they are at the tourist attractions. This in itself has advantages, because that prevents a lot of bus transport and so on in the city. The exact place where they are allowed to build is, of course, a responsibility of the municipality. However, I very much agree with Mr Paternotte that shore power can drastically reduce the emissions of those cruise ships. That is why this subject is also part of the green deal. We're gonna work out those five business cases. The ports of Amsterdam and Rotterdam are very explicit examples. I was in front of the Global Center on Adaptation in Miami, because I was very pleased that mayor Suarez of that city has declared himself willing to open a local office there as Republican, yet very much a member of the Global Center on Adaptation. I was toured in Miami and there you see big cruise ships. I said we're on shore power for cruise ships, so that's where they already have it. Then you think, "That's Trump's land, and we're ahead." Well, we're behind. I really think that we, the Netherlands, should ensure that cruise ships in the Netherlands can simply get shore power. I was really embarrassed that I had to confess that there. I also think it is very good that we are working on these five business cases. In the direction of Mrs De Pater, who said that it also applies, of course, along the inland waterway routes, I say that we really need to ensure that we manage that shore flow. Mr Stoffer asked how the Minister is going to speed up the greening fund and what she is going to do to prevent noise from killing small ships. Mr Laçin and Mr Van Aalst have also said a great deal about this. Together with the other CCNR countries, the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine, I have contracted out a major study of the financing needs and possibilities for improving the sustainability of inland waterway transport. Such a wide-ranging action can only be taken at international level in the context of level playing field and equal opportunities. Those studies will be completed in the middle of next year. Then we know exactly what the need for funding is and what instruments are suitable for it. In the second half of next year, we can follow up on this in a European context. In recent years, the international noise requirements for existing ships prior to 1976 have been relaxed on the Dutch initiative. These ships cannot meet the same requirements as new ships. Therefore, existing ships may exceed the standards for living and sleeping spaces by 5 to 10 dB(A) if measures are taken which are reasonably within the scope. In consultation with the industry organisations, the ILT is now looking at how you could implement this in practice. I expect that agreement to be reached by the end of the year. I suggest I inform you about this for the AO Maritime. Mr Laçin had put a question to it: is the Minister going to work with a workable hardness clause that provides certainty for the skippers? The CCNR and the EU have a hardness clause that all ships can use, not just the small ships but all of them. In addition to that normal hardness clause, there was indeed in the past a simpler version, the so-called crisis hardness clause, adopted by the CCNR in 2008. Schippers were able to get a seven-year delay in investment, with the aim of overcoming the crisis by postponing the investment obligation. The ASV has now asked me for a new, simple arrangement for existing small ships. In the meantime, of course, they can rely on the normal hardness clause. I promised them I'd help them do that. At the moment we are talking to the ASV about, so to speak with retroactive effect, a kind of dummy case: how could it have worked? In the meantime, I am also trying to get the European colleagues to do so. I wrote them all a letter asking: we do not want this category to be able to survive, so can I get your approval for a simpler hardness clause à la crisis hardness clause or in a different form, so that we can give the small ships the opportunity to continue anyway? Not only can I decide that, but I have good hope that I can convince the European colleagues, because it is not in their interests that the small ships disappear. For example, look at the French waterway network. Many waterways are only accessible by small ships. I also expect support from the Belgian inland waterway sector. So I have good hope that I can get a step further, but that's still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u83	Now it's time to intervene. I hear the Minister talking about modal shift and saying that she is afraid of a reverse modal shift, that inland waterway transport should be there and that she is so happy with the green deal. Then I wonder, where does it go wrong? So that's where things go wrong, talking to the real skippers, who didn't sign up for the green deal because it brings them nothing and they can't make it. We can go and yell about finances by the end of the year, but before the end of the year, those people have to do it. Otherwise, it's just done. We've been working on this for years. We've been talking about this all along. There is a cold clean-up of the small inland waterway vessels. It's a way of life for them. You take those people's homes, their lives. So I ask the Minister to settle this before the end of the year. And yes, the Netherlands can do this alone. Let the rest follow us! Maybe you can learn something from Trump in that respect. Slap the fist firmly on the table. We are behind our inland waterway vessels. We need them as much as we can. I now expect the Minister to act, not to let her ears hang on to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u84	This concerns the Rhine Commission and the European Union. I am very motivated to try to understand a workable hardness clause among my fellow Members. I can also see that there is far too much red tape in the current hardness clause. I get it doesn't work. That is why we have also offered to think along: let's see how that should be done on paper. Where are the feet and clamps? How do you achieve a hardness clause that is a bit workable? What can we learn from this crisis-hardness clause? Once again, I am really keen to understand it with colleagues so that we can change this. But I can't break iron with my hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u85	I have already indicated in the first term that I wish to make a motion. Those people are running out of time. The water is on the lips of inland waterway transport. They want action from this minister. Let me put it this way: I will come up with a motion in second place in which I call on the Minister to find a solution at least before the end of the year for these inland waterway vessels so that they do not just fall over by 1 January. I hope that the Minister will give us a positive opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u87	I would like to respond to Mr Van Aalst, President. I very much agree with him and I will do everything in my power to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you. I will go a little further on Mr Van Aalst's line. In her introduction, the Minister spoke of a threatening modal shift. It's not a threatening modal shift, it's a reality. That reverse modal shift is already running. The restructuring of the inland waterway fleet is already under way. Not only the ASV and the skippers, but also the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine, the CCNR itself. The inland waterway fleet is shrinking and diversity is declining. In France and Belgium, this restructuring has gone much faster than here. The Minister cited the examples. We have two and a half months until January 1st. The skippers are running out of time, as Mr Van Aalst says. The current hardness clause does not work because it offers far too little security to the skippers after they have had to invest a great deal. There has to be that certainty and then the skippers are really willing to make investments. But they must be feasible. TNO concludes that almost no ship from before 1976 can meet the requirements, even though the skippers make those investments. I am glad to hear that the Minister has sent a letter to all the CCNR countries and that she has good hope. When does she expect a response? When can we finally decide on this? Can we do that before the AO Maritime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u89	I'd like to do my utmost to do that. Of course, I do not know when which European colleague will respond. Mr Laçin says that reverse modal shift is already in progress. This is true of the number of ships, but the amount of cargo has increased. I count my blessings that the restructuring in the Netherlands is less strong than in Belgium and France. You can see that in a positive light. I'll do everything I can to keep them on top of the water and get through it, but I can only repeat that I can't force that on my own. We are really going to try to change that, because I agree with you that the current hardness clause is not applicable in practice. I hope to convince the European colleagues that it really needs to be better, because it is not in their best interest if we actually make this category of ships impossible to operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u90	I do not think it is a blessing at all that the restructuring of the inland waterway fleet here is less rapid than in France and Belgium, because it is also happening here. It's not just a few companies, it's people's lives. It's been said: it's a way of life. People live and work. The ship is often their life. If they've lost their ship, they've lost a lot, not just a certain income, but really their lives. That is why we must prevent it. This clean-up has got to stop. I see it as a commitment from this minister to inform us at least before the AO Maritime about the reaction of other countries. If there is no confirmation, then I'd like to hear what we're going to do to say to the inland waterway fleet before 31 December, before the end of the year: boys, you can go on and we're going to make sure that you can go on for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mr Laçin takes it as an undertaking that I will let the Chamber know what the reaction of European colleagues is to this. I can confirm that. If they don't respond, I'm really gonna reappear to that and make sure there's a reaction with the same commitment as yours, which is that we need to find a solution to it. So that's what I'm gonna do for the AO Maritime. Mr President, I come to the aviation block. Someone's leaving right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u92	Everyone sit up again!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr. Chairman. We are also building the future in aviation. We do that carefully, one step at a time. The key words are safe and sustainable. Mr Paternotte, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan also spoke about this. Safety always comes first here, too. At the end of this year, I will send you the draft air transport note, in which I will outline the lines for the future in consultation with all the parties. You also know that I am working on the medium-term development of Schiphol. I confirm only one more time yesterday it was also called "a real trend break": first less nuisance, and for what hears. We have to deliver first and only then can we grow. In the summer of next year, Secretary of State Visser and I will take a decision on the design of the reclassification of airspace, something you have been waiting for for years and what is really coming into view. That project is going well on schedule. It is, of course, also very important for the climate and for the environment that we use airspace as efficiently as possible and that no unnecessary detours are flown. It is also important that we manage the increasing pressure and reduce the nuisance as much as possible. We also want, of course, to give wings to international rail traffic, as Mrs Kröger so beautifully said. I would also like to add that we want to put aviation innovation well on track. This only shows that the Secretary of State and I are very much united in this. Then perhaps I should clear up a very big misunderstanding. A sort of concept, an official finger exercise, of an aviation note has appeared somewhere. I can tell you that I have also taken note with great surprise of everything I would find, because I have never seen that whole text before. These are really official finger exercises, and I would say: just throw it in the trash and just wait until the real concept of air traffic note comes to you. Mrs Van Brenk made a comment about it, and Mr Paternotte said 'what a crazy text about an airport at sea'. These are just official finger exercises. I've never seen the whole piece in that shape. It doesn't have any status. Forget it. I can't make it any prettier. A while ago, we saw something like this. There was also an official concept at the time. Then, suddenly, in Maastricht, I was going to allow all night freight flights. That was in a similar context: in the Aviation Note you picture all the extremes and then all kinds of scenarios come along. That was not the case at the time either. So I wouldn't let this upset me. Mr Amhaouch asked if I would be willing to commit myself at European level to innovation in aviation and to the sustainability of fuel. In particular, the Minister wants to work for the biokerosin, he asked. That is a very important point for Mr Amhaouch. During the ICAO Assembly in Montreal, I agreed with my Swedish colleague to form a leading group of European countries to come up with an ambitious approach to reducing CO emissions in aviation. In the meantime, we also see that several countries in Europe, including Spain, France, Sweden, Germany and Finland, are developing policies to stimulate the use of sustainable fuel. I liked the fact that a Finnish company that deals with biokerosin and starts working with a German airline for that purpose, nevertheless chooses to settle in the Netherlands and not in Germany, because they have the impression that the innovation and sustainability of aviation is being strengthened in the Netherlands. Perhaps you have been given this in the media recently. I thought it was a nice compliment for our commitment to opt for the Netherlands, because they think that the sustainability of aviation is really being done here. With all the countries I have just mentioned, we are also talking about sharing policy initiatives and discussing them with each other, so that in the Netherlands we come to structural production and reduction, not in the sense of reduction, but in the sense of selling sustainable fuel. We have also made concrete agreements for this at the Sustainable Aviation Table. Among other things, it was agreed that by 2030 at least 14% of kerosene in the Netherlands should be sustainable kerosene. I am also currently examining the desirability of an obligation to mix renewable fuels for aviation. It is my intention to inform you of this before the end of this year. Mr Paternotte and Mr Amhaouch have asked how the Netherlands takes all the opportunities. When do we stop talking about electric taxiing and just do it? What role can the pilots play in this? I offered your Chamber the draft agreement of the Sustainable Aviation Table with my letter of 27 March last on climate policy for aviation. In that letter I have already indicated that I really see the draft agreement as an interim result that reflects the state of play at the Sustainable Aviation Table. In the meantime, work is being carried out at this table on the preparation and implementation of the draft agreement. So at the end of the year, I expect to be able to offer you the draft aviation note. I would like to mention, among other things, how I look at the follow-up process of the Sustainable Aviation Table and the draft agreement and how I will inform your Chamber about this in the future. They also asked about the role that the NRL pilots can play in electric taxiing. And am I willing to invest in knowledge and skills to stimulate electric and hybrid flying and innovation? With the action programme for hybrid and electric flying, I really want to contribute to Dutch knowledge and skills in this area. In this programme, knowledge and research institutions, the market and the government are joining forces to develop new innovations. Electric taxiing is in that action programme. I expect that action programme to be completed by the end of this year together with the partners at the Sustainable Aviation Table. Proposals are now being developed for investigations and pilots with an aircraft built-in system and a TaxiBot, a self-driving tractor that allows aircraft to be pulled forward. We've shared more often that a big Boeing like this burns 200,000 gallons of kerosene in one year. So if we can electrify that, there is really substantial profit to be made. I will look to the right, because, of course, with the Secretary of State, I will continue to look closely at the charging infrastructure needed to get this electrification in order. We work on this with various parties in the sector: Schiphol, KLM, easyJet, LNVL, but also the NLR in terms of the knowledge and skills behind it. The results of these studies and pilots should show how ambitious our action programme can be. As stated in those draft agreements, it is my ambition that electric taxiing should at least be the standard procedure by 2030, but, of course, preferably sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr President, if I may, I would like to put two questions in one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u95	You just did, and I noticed, so move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u96	That's right. I'm gonna keep going in that line. The draft agreement on Sustainable Aviation came last March. It is good that new steps have been taken in the draft air transport note, but there was six months between the draft climate agreement and the final agreement. It is now about six months since the draft agreement on sustainable air transport was signed. I hope you will be able to say something about when you expect this effect, and if that is complicated, you will give the sector the whip if necessary to ensure that we get it done. I wonder how it is possible that Lufthansa in Frankfurt is already doing that electric taxiing with that wheeltug. If we say that we want that everywhere by 2030, that actually sounds a long way away when it is already technically possible for Boeing 737's and A320's. Can we not buy all those devices they have in Frankfurt if necessary, so that we can start at least in the short term? What about the pilots the NLR is running?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u97	The aim is therefore to include this explicitly in the action programme. That's why we want to start the pilots with the TaxiBots used in Frankfurt. We are in agreement with the sector on this. I hope to finish that at the Sustainable Aviation Table before the end of the year. If there is such an action programme, we will, of course, inform you about it. In the broad sense, of course, it is important in the Aviation Note how we want to deal with the sustainability of aviation, wider than just the electric taxiing. You will have that concept by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u98	Can you answer my first question as well? 'Cause that didn't work out anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u99	Could you repeat that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u100	The question was when do you expect the impact of the Sustainable Aviation Agreement from the climate table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u101	That's what I was trying to tell you, but apparently it didn't come across clearly. We take these results within the framework of the draft Air Transport Note, because the sustainability of aviation is an important part of the future of aviation in the Netherlands. You're gonna find it in that frame. It will also take into account how we intend to inform you in the future about developments regarding the sustainability of aviation. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u102	The Minister had almost ignored, as far as I am concerned, one of the most exciting subjects in this debate, namely the fact that we have five airports operating without a natural permit, without a permit under the Nature Management Act. I asked questions about this yesterday and I get an answer to that that, if I may sum up, is an incredible piece of Schiphol. The Minister outlined that in 2003, an EIA was drawn up in 2002 which outlined what nitrogen emissions would be, not the deposition. European legislation on the protection of Natura 2000 sites was subsequently adopted. Then we just grew up. In 2008, the decision was taken to grow to 500,000 flight movements. An EIA was launched in 2015, but no adequate assessment of the impacts on Natura 2000 sites has been made. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u103	In that sense, I cannot add anything to the answers I have already given you in writing. I have outlined to you that LNV's colleague is the competent authority when it comes to nature permits. There are enforcement requests. She is asking for views on this. This is being dealt with in accordance with the normal procedure and I cannot go into that at the moment. We'll wait and see. I have just outlined the process as it has gone. It is now up to LNV to judge those enforcement requests. I wrote to you in the same letter how we deal with the new situation that we can no longer use the PAS as an underlying system and that everything is sorted out at both Schiphol and Lelystad Airport. What about it? Which numbers exactly are we talking about in that deposition? Which Natura 2000 sites are we talking about? Which habitats play a role there that are nitrogen-sensitive? That is all being mapped out at the moment. I don't have the results yet, so I can't share them with you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u104	Well, maybe that's where the weird role-sharing is going to be right away. I understand that the Minister of LNV is responsible for the enforcement request, but, as the Minister explains here, she has a role to play in identifying which Natura 2000 sites are affected by aviation nitrogen deposition. So that's not done. That hasn't been done for a long time. There, since 2003, there has been a strong growth of 100,000 flights, with no clear impact on Natura 2000 sites. How is that possible? When was it clear to the Ministry that there was no insight into the effects on Natura 2000 sites and that this was contrary to European rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mrs Kröger now paints the picture that there was no insight into it in any way. As you have also read in the written reply, this was, of course, the case, because all environmental impact assessments and other obligations have always taken account of them and have also looked at nitrogen. Only at that time, for example at Lelystad, it was found that it was of such a small size that a notification could be sufficient. Well, you can't right now. Then you need to see how you can make an appropriate assessment. So you just have to develop a new approach to that. At the moment everything is being mapped out in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mrs Kröger, this is the same point as the third interruption, isn't it? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u107	I am fully aware of that. However, for the situation around Schiphol in 2002, it is true that there was a picture of growth, that the European Habitats Directive was then adopted, that a decision was taken in 2008 on growth of up to 500,000 and then on the construction of the H-Pier, and that no appropriate assessment was made at any time of its impact on Natura 2000 sites. When did the Minister realize this huge hole fell?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u108	Again, I do not recognise that all environmental impacts have never been taken seriously into account. It's done. Action was taken in accordance with the normal application of the environmental impact assessments. Things are also getting mixed up now, because you also mention the construction of a pier, for example, for which the municipality is the competent authority. I do not think it is wise to have all kinds of detailed discussions about this now, while there is an enforcement request with LNV's colleague. I want to follow that process neatly. Anyone can submit their views to that. LNV is just going to follow that procedure carefully. It is not wise for me, as an aviation minister, to make statements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mrs Kröger, this is the fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u110	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. But perhaps very simple: is it true that there has never been an appropriate assessment for the growth of flight movements and their impact on Natura 2000 areas around Schiphol? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u111	Of course, all the interests that had to be taken into account have always been taken into account, in accordance with the legal requirements of environmental impact assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u112	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u113	Well, that's your conclusion. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u114	That is also my conclusion, because this minister says that everything is now going to be mixed up, while she is diving here herself. On the very simple and clear question of whether these permits have ever been applied for, the Minister says: yes, it has been looked at. There have just been no applications for permits since 2003, out of my mind, when I should have. It's as simple as that. This has not happened, while Schiphol has grown, Rotterdam has grown and Eindhoven has grown. The only airport that does have a licence is Eelde. Why Eelde did and the other five didn't? I just want the Minister to give a clear answer and not dig behind'municipal authority' and 'everything runs through each other'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u115	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u116	Are those permits there? There aren't any. Why aren't they here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u117	I can only repeat that this is on the subject of LNV's colleague. It is the competent authority for nature permits. All interests are well weighed. Well, I can't enter into that ruling at what time the permit must have been applied for. I can only do that for the permits that are on my property. For the rest, we really need to wait for the outcome of the enforcement requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u119	The question of whether it had been necessary at the time or not has to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u120	That question has already been answered. It just had to be. It is good that this Minister wants to wait for her colleague, and we already know the answer. But what this minister forgets, which she misses, is that her colleague from LNV is indeed about nature, but that this minister is about aviation. It deals with those airports that should have applied for a permit. They didn't, they left it. They've grown further. What has this minister done to address those airports that are covered by this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u121	Well, Mr. Chairman. Mr Laçin has already drawn conclusions on procedures that are still in progress, but I do not. I'll wait for that properly. What has this minister done? This Minister has always ensured that the environmental impact assessments required at the various airports have been properly carried out. We followed that very closely for Lelystad Airport. The independent Commission for the M.e.r. Confirmed that all went well. That is what this Minister has done and will continue to do in the future. Of course, we will also ensure that this will be done by LNV's colleague, who will monitor that nature interests are well weighed, whether they are nitrogen or all other emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u122	Mr Laçin, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u123	I'm not going to repeat myself. I really believe that this Minister is diving for her responsibility with regard to all those airports that have just grown tremendously. I asked this Minister yesterday whether she would like to explain this to all those who have to apply for a permit for a rooftop or parking, while one of the biggest polluters in our country can continue to grow quietly. Following on from what the Minister says: she shifts everything off to her colleague of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u124	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u125	Here I come. She shifts everything on this file to her colleague from LNV. LNV's colleague said that we are not going to make any decisions about aviation until Remkes comes up with his second opinion, in April/May 2020. Nevertheless, this Minister continues research and decision-making on Lelystad Airport despite everything that has happened on this dossier. That doesn't go together, does it? This minister says that everything is at LNV, but she is going on with Lelystad Airport. So stop doing that, confirm here that this minister is going to wait for Remkes' second advice on Lelystad, and then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u126	Well, Mr Laçin has drawn a lot of conclusions here. A. I do not transfer everything to LNV's colleague. I really don't see it that way, because we're just taking on our own responsibilities. From our ministry of course, at Lelystad Airport, which you are referring to, you will see what the new appropriate assessment should be. Agreements have just been made with your Chamber on the conditions to be met before you want to discuss them as a Chamber. 'Cause you're in charge of the front suspension procedure. Well, I recently informed you that the traffic distribution rule was given the green light. That is a new fact, about which you have been informed. And I hope that you will be able to get that very soon in the written reply to Mr Dijkstra I have informed you of the research that still had to do with the effects of the market approach and the vvr on selectivity policy. Well, I hope I can send that to you in a month. Then I still simply carry out my mission to make all the preparations so that, when the House of Representatives decides on Lelystad Airport, it can start as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u127	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u128	The Minister is now tying all sorts of things together. I am not going to comment on the traffic distribution rule here, because what I think of it is well known. But what I find very strange, which in my opinion is really wrong, is that the minister here about Lelystad Airport says that the appropriate assessment lies with her. But if we ask questions about Schiphol Airport, you're gonna slide it to LNV very quickly. Surely one can't be with LNV and the other with this minister? It's either one or the other. That is what you must be consistent in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u129	Let me make it very clear: LNV's colleague is the competent authority, and she may or may not grant that authorisation. But to get that permit, of course, we need to do research. The same applies to an individual road project. In doing so, of course, research is carried out from our ministry in the context of the MIRT process. Moreover, the officials do not do so themselves; they hire ecologists and biologists to map all of this properly and to do so. Then it is up to LNV's colleague to make an assessment. That's how it's done. So it's not like we're doing nothing. We have a lot of preparatory work to do on all these MIRT projects. If there is to be an ADC test, as we have for example at the Blankenburg connection, we will have to ensure that there is proper compensation and so on. That's just what we do. But with LNV's colleague the final assessment is whether there is a nature permit to be granted. Of course, the Council of State will also give its opinion, for example on an ADC test, on whether it is sufficient or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u130	The Minister makes it very clear. The Ministry of IenW has to prepare all this, do proper research and make sure it's all well mapped out. It's called making an appropriate assessment. Therefore, again my question to the Minister: is it true that this appropriate assessment was never made by the Ministry of IenW for Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u131	Then I refer again to the environmental impact assessments: the word 'environment' is there for a reason in the words 'environment' in which all the relevant aspects are taken into account. In addition, you also have other licensing routes, including other competent authorities, which can also play a role. You mentioned the example of the pier; that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u132	The question of whether there is a lawful or non-legal authorisation now lies with the Ministry of LNV. There's an enforcement request there, I understand. But we have seen in the case of nitrogen that, after a ruling by the European Court of Justice, the cabinet looked like a rabbit in the light box for seven months. My question to the Minister is whether she is preparing scenarios within her ministry in case it appears that the permits have been unlawfully granted. Are we not at risk here that the whole thing will be locked up or that there will be serious problems with aviation? So they're looking at a plan "A," a plan "B" and a plan "C"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u133	Then with my initials I tend to think of a plan C, but that aside. Of course, we always try to foresee all kinds of scenarios, but at the moment there is no reason to develop very large plans for that. We are just waiting carefully to see how the view procedure is going with LNV. There are no very long deadlines beyond that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u134	The Minister referred to the 2003 environmental impact report as to whether the nature permit for Schiphol was indeed not necessary at the time. Of course, that EIA complied with all the EIA legislation in force at the time. You say that these are the environmental effects. But these EIA regulations have changed at the time, and the Birds and Habitats Directives are from then on. Could it be that nitrogen emissions were included in the 2003 EIA, but not the deposition? And question two: which of the two, the emissions or deposition, is relevant to whether we comply with the Birds and Habitats Directives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u135	I think that is too detailed a question at the moment. I can't judge that like that. But the answers will have to be given in the coming period, because that is, of course, exactly the level of detail that LNV will have to respond to, because these questions are part of the question of whether the enforcement request is justified or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u136	Yeah, I get that. At the same time, it is also a relatively simple question: was it about emissions at the time or about deposition? Of course, we always have discussions here about the deposition. There have also been discussions about the question: is aviation emissions so low, or is the deposition especially low compared to all other sources of nitrogen deposition? So this seems to me to be a detailed, but also a relatively simple question: has emissions or deposition been included in the 2003 EIA? When would the Minister be able to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u137	Let me come back to that in the second term and see how detailed I can now say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u138	Of course, there has been an important debate about the situation and the problems we have today, but I would also like to move on to Plan A: how are we going to look to the future? It is good to hear that, for example, a Finnish company is coming to the Netherlands because there is innovation there and that, while KLM and Schiphol are working on sustainable fuels, the Spanish and the French are also working on it. However, as I have also indicated in my speech, I would like us to make good reference to the national innovation agenda for aviation, but also, in fact, to the railways. Because innovation is happening in many places, as the Minister has just explained, but what are the key points that we want to implement in the short term or in the medium term? This includes certain legislation, and this includes resources. Apart from contributions, we also have resources, such as Invest-NL, and there may be an investment fund. I would like to see that again: how do we make the aviation sector, which provides jobs and bread for hundreds of thousands of people, competitive and sustainable? For that, I believe we need a good national innovation plan. There is, of course, a great deal about the sustainability agreement with the sector, but the sector, the public authorities and the knowledge institutions must sit together and indicate what I call it the most important short-term and medium-term brilliants and that we are going to use them. Of course, there are a lot of other things that happen, but in these areas a certain implementation time is sought. Can the Minister make a commitment to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u139	I am as motivated as Mr Amhaouch to take real steps in this and to be very ambitious in this. I also really want to try to make the ambition document of that sustainable aviation table as concrete as possible. And you are absolutely right about the investments and looking at how you can increase your earning capacity as a country in the future. If we in the Netherlands manage, for example, to find the solution with the experiments with synthetic kerosene, which Schiphol is working on with Rotterdam The Hague Airport, and if we can start producing synthetic kerosene, you will solve a huge global problem in aviation and at the same time have a fantastic export article in your hands. So I very much agree with Mr Amhaouch that we need to try to really take those growth-brilliants out of there and not get a shot at them, but try to really stimulate the most promising parts of the innovation in aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u140	Then there's the last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u141	Yeah, I'm gonna join the other category. Mr Dijkstra asked whether the policy freedom for municipalities to reduce car mobility has not gone too far, for example in environmental areas, differentiation of parking rates and car-free days. Let's do all that, or should we make rules about it? Of course, there are also limits to municipal policy freedom in relation to traffic. General frameworks are, as you know, laid down in the Road Traffic Act. This concerns, for example, the frameworks for road signs and traffic decisions. Municipalities do indeed have the freedom to set environmental zones, to differentiate parking rates and also to allow possibly carless Sundays. These are matters of a municipal nature. Of course, the General Administrative Law applies. It follows that municipalities must take public decisions which must always be open to appeal and appeal. I would like to ask the question about the willingness to embrace a carless Sunday. As far as I'm concerned, there's not going to be an embrace from the Empire of a carless Sunday. I think everyone should have the freedom to go on the road by car whenever they want and when they need it, but of course Dutch municipalities are all free to come up with their own initiatives. Every municipality is therefore free to join initiatives in any other world city. I do not see that there are obstacles to this either, because municipalities can regulate all this by means of a local regulation. That happens in some places, by the way. In Nijmegen last year they organized a picnic on the Waalbrug during the European carless Sunday. The municipalities that want to do so can do so. It doesn't apply so much to the national road network either, because you can't do that on a highway. So I think it is really something for local drivers to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u142	It is good that the Minister confirms that this is local policy freedom and that municipalities are basically not in the way of organizing a carless Sunday. I think that's a lot of profit. I also see a lot of municipalities that are just really positive about this. At the same time, the Minister says: we do not want to embrace it from the Empire. Nor was it my intention to have the whole country organise a carless Sunday. But at some point, of course, a municipality can say: we need some support from the Empire. Or: we have questions about how to organise this. Can they call on the Empire to provide support in any way? I can't really see the situation right now, but perhaps it's about support in communication or otherwise just practical support to make such an event possible. Is that something the Minister is open to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u143	No, I really don't see any role for the Empire in this. It's really something one municipality might want. I mentioned to you the example of Nijmegen, and another municipality says: absolutely not. That's up to them. So I see no role for the Empire in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u144	I do regret that the Minister says so, because we can support municipalities on request without organising a car-free Sunday for the whole country. Of course, the primary responsibility lies with municipalities, but I can imagine that at some point there will be a call to the ministry asking: what exactly is this or that? And: can the ministry think along with us in this or in that? I am just very sorry if the Minister closes the door to that too, because then perhaps there are municipalities that want to take the step, but they can't do it practically because they have questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u145	I do not believe that the problem is so much that municipalities do not know what to do. Of course, the Ministry is always willing to answer questions from municipalities about traffic decisions or whatever. That applies to all subjects. I do not think this is a priority for the Empire, given all the tasks that our administration has to carry out. We really do have other things that we need our commitment for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u146	I'm really sorry. I had actually also hoped for a reaction from the Secretary of State on an approach to seduce people to leave the car a bit more often and then to cycle, walk or go with it, also in view of the Clean Air Agreement. That would be very nice. I fully understand that this is a decision that lies with the municipalities, but I think it is a matter of saying as a government: we think this is a good initiative, we think it is positive and we are open to help where necessary and where possible. I think it's about sending out the signal that the carless Sunday is really a day when you're celebrating the alternative on the car together. That is why I made this proposal, together with the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u147	You can think about that in different ways; it turns out. The Secretary of State and I are working hard on the Clean Air Agreement. Of course, we also promote the use of bicycles and public transport wherever possible. Not only does that to the Secretary of State, but so do I. We have all kinds of pilots. I really think that is a task at the level of the Empire. And whether or not people want to crayons in the middle of the street and make a party out of it, it's all really up to the local authorities. They have to make a choice in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u149	Then I have Mr Schonis' question as to whether it will be possible to send the preparatory research for payment to use to the Chamber next spring. The Climate Agreement has agreed that at least three variants will be examined. It is a subject for which much remains to be worked out. That must also be done carefully. The lead for this research lies with the Ministry of Finance, partly because of its relationship with taxation, but I work very well with Mr Snel. Both departments consider themselves jointly responsible for the quality of content and also for the progress you are so afraid of. Mr Snel also told me that there will be a letter this autumn, which will also outline the approach to research. It will therefore give an idea of when this can be completed. That is what you can expect from us this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u150	Just a little more specific. So this autumn we get a letter with a timetable for the introduction of charging... I'm sorry. I'm sorry about the check-in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u151	About the studies on the three pilots on payment for use, described in the Climate Agreement, you will receive a letter with the plan of approach et cetera this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u152	I know that Mr Snel has quickly been able to introduce a flight tax. I am therefore confident that this subject too is in good hands with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u153	I have nothing to add to that. Working with Mr Snel is indeed very enjoyable, so I can confirm that. Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman. Oh, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u154	You thought so, but that is not entirely the case. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u155	I had asked a number of questions and they were answered in writing, but not entirely satisfactory. And I still have all my interruptions, so I'm gonna use the first one of them. The first one is about the musk rats. I was talking about the fight. I had also asked a number of questions. The Minister refers to the European regulation invasive exotics, but there is much more in it. Waterboards are not required to kill muskrats, but to prevent damage as much as possible. I have just looked at the European regulation on invasive exotics, which says that non-lethal substances should be explicitly considered. That didn't happen here. The regulation also states in Article 25 that the measures should not have a negative impact on indigenous species. Beavers end up in those traps, too. Finally, I would like to refer to Article 26, which states that Member States should, in particular, take remedial measures to improve ecosystems. So you need to improve biodiversity. A strong ecosystem is also a kind of weapon against invasive exotics. That has not happened, because the Netherlands is one of the European countries with the least biodiversity. Therefore, Articles 25 and 26 of that European Regulation are not complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u156	That's a very comprehensive question. You know that the fight against the muskrat is carried out by the various waterboards. They do, because the muskrats are gonna undermine our dikes if we don't fight them. And then our water safety is compromised and we don't keep dry feet in the Netherlands. That's why this is being done. The muskrat is not being fought for nothing. The Union of Water Boards and all waterboards have been doing so for a very long time. They have good experiences with that. They have also done extensive research on this, because it is known that the various people who are active in the various waterboards have already asked a lot of questions about this in recent years. When I was still active in the Provincial States of Brabant that was a long time ago this subject was already on the agenda. Gradually, a practice has been developed in which people say: this is the most animal-friendly way of doing this. It's just that we have to make sure that we keep our feet dry. In recent years, there has been a very extensive re-examination led by the Union of Water Councils. I have every confidence that that has led to the best way to do this, no matter how bad it is that you have to kill those bugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u157	That is also a very long answer, but I understand that this is a little because of my question. The minister says we have to keep dry feet and the muskrats are undermining the dikes. As far as I know, a dike has never been broken because muskrats have started working there, but dikes have broken through due to late maintenance, extreme drought or a combination of different factors. In the first place, I think you need to put a lot more effort into protecting, repairing and maintaining the dikes. I do not hear the Minister commenting on Articles 25 and 26 of the European regulation. Moreover, that regulation says that you must avoid fear, pain and suffering as much as possible, if all non-lethal medicines do not help and you are going to fight. Those musk rats are drowning. They are drowned in cages or in clamps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr. Wassenberg, a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u159	That's not animal-friendly. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u160	You say that's never broken a dike before. Yeah, but that's because this is being followed very closely. Research has shown that musk rats I don't know how many corridors dig, which is why there are great risks for the dikes if you have many musk rats. That's exactly why there are so many rat-catchers active. They must prevent them from really undermining the dikes in such a way that the dike will collapse. And then there's animal friendliness. I understand that you would prefer it not to happen at all, but it has been looked at very carefully for years. All waterboards together do not come to a better alternative than this. So that's what we're gonna have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u161	That is exactly what this European regulation says. We don't have any biodiversity at all. If you have good biodiversity, those muskrats have natural enemies. Moreover, if you use non-lethal means, such as the reinforcement of dikes, that muskrat can't nest there at all. Then you have that problem much less. So much more needs to be devoted to these non-lethal means. That is not what the Party for Animals wants, that is what that regulation requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u162	Let me try to agree with Mr Wassenberg on one point, namely that we need to work on biodiversity. Of course, you are right: if biodiversity increases and the muskrat is simply eaten by natural enemies, then we will no longer have to catch them. In this way, we will try not to need it anymore, because biodiversity will then provide a solution. Maybe we'll find each other there in the future. But as long as there are no natural enemies, we will have to solve it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr Wassenberg, I have been whispered that there is also a WHO Water scheduled on November 11th, from 11.00 am to 7 pm. There you may be able to raise this subject again. Do you have another question on another subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u164	I have another question on another subject. I'm getting a little from the cabinet to the wall idea. I have already put this question to the Agriculture budget. Then it was said that I should be in the budget of IenW. I am fine with doing it in the WHO later, but it is going to come up in all the meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u165	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u166	Excellent. Then I will. I had also asked a question about balloons to the Minister. I've pleaded for a balloon-panel ban. The minister said that this is up to the municipalities and that this can be set up in the APV. A quarter of the municipalities have done so. That doesn't mean three-quarters. It's really a citywide... The Secretary of State is looking at the Secretary of State. Should I be with the Secretary of State? I'll just leave this one alone. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u167	It's a good word for gallows. It's a ban on balloons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u168	I think there's another question from the PVV. I get it: it's that notorious melon Mr. Dijkstra couldn't swallow, that truck tax. But I think I asked a question about it in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u169	Yes, Mr Van Aalst's position on the truck tax is well known. But he also knows how we work with it. You will soon receive new information on how we proceed with the truck tax. There's been a consultation. Further work is being done. The legislative process is still on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u170	I think the minister's gonna think I'm gonna start on that ban on freight on Sunday, but I'm not. It is now about the tachograph cards. I have asked written questions about the report and given that an answer will be given in two weeks' time. Then the report comes to us. But the second important question was about the price reduction. In the written reply, I see that the starting point is to apply charges that are cost-effective. My first curious question is whether it is going towards price reductions. Or is the conclusion that, in order to cover the costs, we will still remain at this towering rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u171	No, Mr Stoffer can draw the conclusion that the tariff will have to go down on tachograph cards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u172	I asked in my speech whether the mobility agenda is still the right answer to the future. There should be no scale jump in rail transport, among other things. The Secretary of State will answer that. I have also read about a growing gap between town and country. That is not something that happens exclusively in the Netherlands. This is happening in Europe. As you can see, a number of infra-projects in rural areas are always underlining, including with the National Market and Capacity Analysis System. I named the railroad to Delfzijl. With that system, it would never be built these days. With relatively limited resources, you can greatly improve the quality of life and accessibility of rural areas. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to adjust the mobility agenda in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u173	I can answer that very generously. We're going to talk about the Mobility Fund soon. We are going from the Infrastructure Fund to the Mobility Fund, where we are going to make that integrated assessment and there is one very important change in the National Market and Capacity Analysis. The Secretary of State and I expressly choose to do so across borders, so that the model does not end at the border. Many of the rural areas are in Belgium or Germany. If you are not allowed to count one half of the potential, your project will never come up. So we're explicitly gonna change that, too. It takes place across borders, both for rail and for roads and waterways. We really want to see you do justice to the potential, even on the other side of the border, and take it with you. Mr Moorlag is quite right that you should take this with you in a realistic way. You can see in other countries that there is a danger of depopulation from the countryside. The Secretary of State will also comment on the MaaS pilots. We are also explicitly looking at new ways of thinking and new ways of public transport, and how we can worry about the issue of transport poverty is what Members of Parliament are talking about, that people in rural areas also remain mobile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u174	I welcome the fact that the Minister is so keen on this. Wim Kok once said that the Netherlands is too small for the periphery. You can see that the spatial pressure in the outskirts of town is building up and that people in rural areas feel not only physically, but also mentally more and more remotely. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to exchange views with the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on this subject, as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also points out. Infrastructure is not just a matter of engineers, asphalt and concrete. Infrastructure also has a socio-cultural dimension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u175	Sure. The Secretary of State's nodding too. I think it is very nice that we do this together once. That's a good proposal. The Secretary of State is whispering to me that she will be happy to say something about this herself in the context of transport poverty. Then I'm sure you can count on it. Well, that's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thank you. Before we listen to the Secretary of State's reply, I would like to suspend until 1.25 p.m. Then we have votes and a short settlement. Then we will continue with this budget debate.
