ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u1	The next item is the European Economic and Social Committee/Ecofin Council. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Commission has presented a proposal to introduce taxation for digital companies, tech companies. This is going to be called the "digitals." This proposal has been killed. There was no unanimity. I have previously called for the European proposal not to be chosen because we did not think it was good enough, but rather to prepare legislation ourselves. Now that the proposal has really been stranded, I repeat this call in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission's proposal for a uniform digital service tax cannot count on the necessary unanimity, even in the form of a temporary digital advertising tax;]] [[noting that many European Member States have introduced a national measure to tax digital companies or have measures in preparation;]] [[believes that the Netherlands should also tax digital companies, since they currently pay too little profit tax worldwide;]] [[calls on the Government, possibly in cooperation with other European countries, to draw up a tax measure allowing the Dutch tax authorities to tax the turnover of digital companies in the Netherlands and to submit them to the Chamber as soon as possible, but certainly to the 2020 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Disturbing reports about Germany's two largest banks in recent times in the media. These banks are in danger of merging. We have had many debates in this Chamber on too big to fail banks, including in the European Union. The PvdA Group is very concerned about this. Both banks don't look good. If you throw together two poorly capitalized banks with a lot of problems because you think that is a solution, then those problems may get bigger, even bigger than for Germany alone and skip to Europe. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank are talking about a merger;]] [[whereas both banks are in a bad position;]] [[Whereas, following a possible merger, a huge system bank would emerge, which may still be very weak underneath;]] [[Whereas banks can still be "too big to fail" and there is still a risk that the risks of such banks will be passed on to ordinary people;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent banks becoming too big to fail on a European scale and to do everything it can to prevent risks from being passed on to others other than shareholders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1585]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u4	I think it's a good motion and I expect to support her. I have asked the Minister several times in writing what he thinks of the plea for European banks. That would fit well with the so-loved banking union. We should certainly enter into the debate with the Minister on this. I would ask Mr Nijboer to join the debate next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u5	Well, I've been to many debates on upcoming Eurogroup meetings. That's about every three weeks. Fortunately, the themes do not change every three weeks. This is a topical issue on which I have tabled a motion. I can always be questioned at all the debates on upcoming euro groups. This wasn't on the agenda at the time. This has become topical in the German Government over the past week. I was in Berlin last Thursday and Friday. I spoke to the Minister of Finance who's from the SPD house. It is simply a very topical issue that may be raised in the next week and margin. I'll make a motion on that. This was not yet on the agenda of the Eurogroup. I do not therefore feel called upon by Mrs Leijten to do so. I've considered it. I don't have the habit of being with a VAO when I wasn't with the AA. But given this theme and this subject, I think it fits here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u6	I think it's been topical for a long time. That is why I asked written questions about it. There is certainly a huge plea for European banks in Germany. The Minister has not really had an opinion on this every time, so it is more than right for us as a Chamber to express our opinion on this. I would like to point out that the euro group has already been there. We planned this VAO right now, after it ended, because I wanted to know what happened to those digitals. It is a good thing that we have this motion and that we vote on it so that the Minister can be asked about it in the next eurogroup.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u7	All the more reason to explain this clearly here. Moreover, I should like to pay tribute to Mr Koolmees, who made this a major point at the time, in his capacity as spokesman for the Treasury of D66, of the mergers of banks. So it has been going on for a long time, but it's really getting concrete now. Those banks have simply announced that they will enter into these talks, and I think that is the moment that we can find some of them again. I also expect support from Mrs Leijten. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u8	Thank you. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u9	Mr President, I do not want to talk through the pleasant conversation. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Government has repeatedly asked for transparency on the Commission's calculations of the Italian budget. The Commission has approved the Italian budget, although the budget surplus is increasing and although the Italian Government has announced an early retirement measure, I am looking at Mr Van Rooijen who does not even propose 50PLUS here, namely that anyone with 63 with a state pension may be allowed in Italy if he has sufficient years of service. That costs more than 40 billion in the coming years. Italy has also slipped into recession. This means that there is a risk that Italy will need ESM aid or other aid to pay early pensions to its own population and that it will then be paid with money from, for example, the Netherlands, where we will not even do those early pensions anymore. That's unsellable and very undesirable. Now it seems logical that when the European Commission takes decisions of this kind, it also makes the calculations public, but it does not. So citizens should not be aware of this. The European Treaty, Article 4 (3), provides for the possibility of asking each other for documents in the framework of good cooperation between the institutions, such as the parliaments and the Commission. I would ask the government to write a letter to the Commission in the coming week and to publish it in which it is asking for this document to be made public on the basis of Article 4 (3) so that we all know what it is based on. And not only for Italy, but also for France. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u10	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u11	Mr. Chairman. In the AO Eurogroup/Ecofin Council I stated the following last time. Other euro area countries have hardly any pension assets, and so they have hardly any problem with the low interest rate. That's good to remember. They do have a high calculus rate, but no power. The whole of the calculation rate debate is hardly there, but they do have a huge, often excessive, public debt, which they can finance and even increase thanks to our ability to afford. Our pensions have been bleeding for ten years to keep the interest burden on the huge public debt of Italy, France and Greece affordable. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the manifestation of the trade unions "A good pension is a matter of decency" has brought many thousands of people to life throughout the country;]] [[whereas the Prime Minister has already stated at an earlier stage that these reductions will be avoided if agreement is reached on the points of discussion;]] [[Whereas, when the climate agreement was passed on, this cabinet also made policy adjustments to facilitate the principles of a broadly supported agreement;]] [[whereas negotiations on a new pension system have been going on for much longer than the negotiations on the climate agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a proposal that does not reduce accrued pension rights to be passed on by pension funds on the basis of the loss of the minimum required own funds with a consecutive five-year period, while the coverage rate is higher than 100%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1586]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u12	I'm looking at the Secretary of State. A few minutes? I'll suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u13	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u14	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions before me and one question from Mr Omtzigt. I'll make the motions first and then I'll get to the question. First of all, I shall begin with Mrs Leijten's motion on the digital advertising tax or the digitaks, as we mentioned earlier. Indeed, it is true that last week we in the Ecofin Council were unable to reach an agreement in Europe on a European digitaks. The proposal has not been completely fired off, but at least it has entered into the refrigerator, or freezer if you like. I indicated that I thought that was a missed opportunity, because we were close to an agreement. In the end, some four Member States were against it. As you know and as I mentioned earlier in the Chamber, I find this typically a problem that deserves a global solution. In fact, almost all countries have a preference for this, and at the same time we also know that it is not so one-two-three when you have to come out with the whole world somewhere. That is why we say: we are trying to do it first in Europe. It is also true that the OECD, which would then be the leader in this global process, is keen to speed things up. They will present an interim report in June this year. This will have to show whether we have the strength to do so on a global scale. One of the reasons given by the OECD, and which we have also mentioned earlier, is that we would like companies not to have to deal with another digitaks in 186 countries in the world. Administratively, that's not pleasant. That is why we are still in favour of finding a solution with as many countries as possible at the same time. We are still not looking forward to the idea that we might be able to do so through the OECD. We have undertaken to participate internationally in these talks. And although I can follow the line of thought, namely "but if it takes too long, why don't you do it nationally?" I think it is too early for such a solution. So that's why I'm going to dissuade this motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u15	There is no guarantee of progress in the OECD. It's gonna be years anyway. We know that France is introducing a retroactive digitaks. There are several countries that already have him or have him in preparation. I wonder about the argument 'we want these tech companies to pay taxes as well', but then we hide behind an international trail. We don't do that on climate, I'll tell the Secretary of State. On climate we even form a leading group. Why is he not prepared, for example, to join France, to see how they do it, and at least to ensure that by 2020 we will simply pay taxes on these companies, which will be rich from our data! And don't pay taxes on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u16	We do not disagree on the objective. You can blame me for this: I still believe that the solution should not be that every country does the same. At the same time, I agree with you. There is a time when you say: yes, but if that really does not work out, then you have to move to a European or perhaps an enhanced cooperation, enhanced cooperation with a number of countries in Europe, for example, in accordance with the directive, as initially proposed in the Franco-German proposal. Those are all possibilities. I am just saying that I think it is too early to do so, because I still have hope, also in view of the last discussion we have had, that we are going to get out of this with a large group of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u17	It could be and-and, couldn't it? If you don't get out, at least you've prepared something that you can submit to the Chamber, so that we'll have that tax by 2020. And then you hope that it will succeed internationally, but that can also be a dragging journey of years. We are not doing this on climate grounds; we are going to work with those countries that just want to do it as well. I don't understand why the Secretary of State can't walk those two paths. If you can do it in France and in other countries, you can do it here. Then I have to conclude that it is unwilling, because the Secretary of State does not say when his own measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u18	It's definitely not a component. I have just said that in June, so within three months, there will be a comprehensive interim report from the OECD. If it's okay, that could give us the lines through which we can continue to work. If it turns out that this is also a method which has very little success, then we can always engage in such a discussion. Only, right now, the motion is really early and I'm not ready for it. By the way, I would also like to add to this, but I do not want to go into this too much at this point: any suggestion that we could introduce such a new tax in a Tax Plan 2020 is not real. As you know, new taxes will be subject to a system change and will take longer. For example, we have always stated in the European debate that this would not be possible before 2022. And by the way, we also had a 2025 horizon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u19	Mrs. Leijten, you've already had twice the chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u20	Yes, I know, Mr. Chairman. But then there's another new argument, that the tax authorities can't handle it...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u21	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u22	... and that's also the argument not to lower the energy bill. You can't keep hiding behind a tax authority that can't handle system changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u24	Mr. Chairman. It had nothing to do with that. This is what this is all about. If you are to make new tax legislation, you must take the time to do so and, of course, an implementation test must also be provided. And every time I make an argument, linking it to that I can't hide behind the IRS, I don't think it's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u25	So that first motion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u26	Yeah, dissuade it. The second motion was a motion by Mr Nijboer on the merger of two major German banks. Indeed, it is true that last weekend the Deutsche Bank and the Commerzbank made public that they are talking about a possible merger. Moreover, these two German banks are currently complying with their requirements. It is absolutely true that we agree that they also certainly have structural challenges, including their high operational costs. I think that's one of the biggest problems both banks face. Therefore, this is demonstrated by their low profitability. The German government has also suggested that it would be good to continue following these talks, I understand. Together, banks could become a significantly larger player in the European market. The main aim seems to be to enable the banks to cut costs together and then operate more efficiently. That's how I understood it. That actually brings me to the content of the motion, namely: what can the government do to stop it? In fact, I come to the conclusion quite quickly that we are not doing so much about it. The Dutch Government has no role in these talks and in the proposed merger. And the Dutch government will not test this either, because for that we have a supervisor, in this case the ECB because they are two European system banks. The ECB will assess, inter alia, the reputation, sound and prudent conduct of business, the financial soundness of the proposed merger or acquisition, and whether banks can comply with all laws and regulations imposed on them, such as anti-money laundering provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u27	Mr. Chairman. What I'm so worried about is "too big to fail." We have had the Wijffels Committee, which has advised on the Dutch banking sector. That really is a huge problem. And what I am really afraid of is that there will be more and more huge conglomerates in Europe, now supported by the German Government. Well, they are going to be so great that the risk of support from the European authorities will actually increase, because that will not only be for the Germans'.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This motion is not recommended, as I have already tasted. But does the Cabinet share those concerns? 'Cause this has happened before. The previous cabinet has really assumed in several euro groups that this is really a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u28	That's right. We have also indicated that if banks become larger and more complex, the requirements we impose on these banks must be stricter. For example, we are asking more for European system banks when it comes to their leverage ratio and capital requirements than for other banks. So there is definitely attention to that. At the same time, the scope as such is not yet a formal test point in the assessment of the proposed merger. So indeed, Mr Nijboer had already seen it coming. It's not like we don't understand his concerns. Once again, we have included a number of rules for this. Think of the TLAC buffers, for example. Nevertheless, I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u29	The second motion is not recommended. The third motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u30	Then we come to the motion of member Van Rooijen. I just wanted to read it a little more precisely. I would almost say that, as usual, there is a fine amount of retirement technology in there. Of course, that makes us all very happy. But the request to the government that I read in the last paragraph is not the policy that this government has in mind, nor is it in line with the rules that we are now complying with. For that reason, I do not think this is the way the government will go. We will therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u31	The motion in part No. 1586 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u32	It's a sad file. The ECB has artificially and manipulated reduced interest rates. This has a major impact on the level of coverage. That's why there's discounts. And what happened last week? In the climate debate with the Prime Minister and Minister Wiebes, I pointed out to the Cabinet that the Plan Bureau for the Environment report states that climate investment is counted for a social discount rate of 3%. These are more targeted investments, for certain purposes. The investment of pension funds is global and very broad. They don't have that limit. Can you explain to me why climate investment with a social discount rate of 3% can be counted, while pension funds are subject to 1.5%? This is also caused by the ECB, which artificially manipulated it downwards. 3% would therefore be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u33	This speech has four points of departure, I think. Think of social return versus the way you use a discount rate to settle your pension obligations. I understand the idea that the climate is for the future, that this also applies to pensions, and that is why you should do the same. But they are not that easy to throw together, I say to Mr Van Rooijen. I still think it is wise to pay pensions at the rate we have. That's what we agreed on. I still think those appointments are good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u34	Can the Secretary of State answer the following question? This motion says: if the coverage rate is 100% or more, but below 104%, there must be a reduction according to the rules. But at 100%, pension funds will be able to meet all obligations for the coming decades. With a coverage rate of 100% or more, you can meet all obligations for a long time. Does the Secretary of State find it logical, as is stated in this motion, not to shorten it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u35	That's what it looks like. At some point you can cover everything you think you need, but at the same time the world around you can change. That's why we use buffers in the pension sector. One of the reasons for saying that they cannot pay out in advance if they do not meet a certain minimum, which is more than 100%, is because we consider that to be unwise. That's the government line. It is different from the line Mr Van Rooijen wants. I know. Nevertheless, the proposal does not seem to me to be a good policy, i.e. the level of coverage above 100% for five years and then not shortening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u36	Mr. Van Rooijen, we are not going to have a full debate here. So very briefly. This is the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u37	I'm talking about my own motion. My fellow Members have also had the opportunity to intervene three times. I'm ready for my third now. If you'll allow me, I'll ask you again. The coverage rate of 100% is at a manipulated calculation rate of 1.5%. At a slightly higher arithmetic rate, 0.5% or 1% more, there is already no reduction. So my point is: if the coverage rate is 100% even at a very low arithmetic rate, are you going to cut it? Because normally 100% is actually 120%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u38	In the final analysis, this very eloquence is a request that I have received from Mr Van Rooijen on many occasions, namely whether I would like to adjust the rate of calculation. The answer to that is: no, we think it is an unwise plan to do so now. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u39	The motion in part No. 1586 is not recommended. Then there is Mr Omtzigt's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u40	Yes, Mr Omtzigt's question. If I understand him correctly, his request is for the government to send a letter to the Commission asking for more openness and transparency on the reports. The basis below is then Article 4.3. As far as I understand, that is exactly what our Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have already given to the Commission orally. I therefore believe that a further request through a letter will not lead to a great willingness on the part of the Commission to do so or not. The oral request has really been put forward in a solid manner. We therefore agree with the underlying idea, but think that a letter does not add much to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u41	So far, the Commission's replies are not public either. If the Dutch Government writes a letter, there will also be an answer, which must at least be public, with the grounds for acceptance or rejection. I am referring now to an article from the European Treaty. That is why I would ask the government to reconsider this, to formally write that letter for the next 24 hours in order to strengthen it, and to share that letter and the answer with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u42	So Mr Omtzigt's request remains the same. Once again, this has already been transferred to the Commission at the highest possible level. We also have concerns about transparency. At the same time, it is not always up to us to decide. The request has been transferred. It would be almost strange if you did so again with a letter, as if the oral question had had no value. I don't think it adds much, but in the end I won't be the signatory to the letter. Perhaps it would help if I presented this same request to the Minister again, if I saw him later today. But my idea is that this doesn't add too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u43	I appreciate this to the Minister or to the Minister. The Prime Minister, who is going to the European Summit on Thursday, is being presented and we will hear before Thursday morning whether that letter is being written, because we have a VSO on Thursday morning about the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u44	I'll pass on the request, including the deadline that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u45	Very well, thank you very much. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-35.u46	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
