ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	We continue in one smooth movement with the treatment of the Law centralizing interpretation facilities auditorily restricted living and working domain, listening lines and trust work youth (35070). We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. We also have a scoop, because there is a real deaf interpreter in the gallery today, which is going to make clear what we are all saying here. That's the nice gentleman standing there with his back to us. That's the way it is. Mr De Jonge had eleven minutes left to make his joke, but he will only be speaking again shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Hijink of the SP Group. He has ten minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The real question is, of course, whether the Minister will succeed in wishing everyone a good afternoon. Maybe he could prepare himself for that. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a legislative change, a change to the Wmo, the Participation Act and the Youth Act. This law makes some good changes, if it is up to the SP, for example when it comes to organising the Child Phone nationwide and the Listening Lines for young people and adults. But there are also great concerns, especially among people who depend on an interpreter, for example because they are deaf or hearing impaired. The UWV has been appointed by the government to organise a sufficient number of interpreters. Not entirely wrong there are quite a few doubts about whether this is in good hands with the UWV. For in the past few months the UWV didn't really come into the news in a positive way. There are major problems in checking for fraudulent applications for benefits. It is lagging behind in the approval of people with disability benefits. Unemployment benefits are claimed without ensuring that people have been dismissed. It's a bit messed up internally, too. Some employees are frustrated because they sent signals years ago about benefit fraud, which were ignored. Does the Minister understand the concerns of people who depend on a good interpreter? Can they be confident that the UWV will implement the interpretation system properly, even if there are still so many abuses in this organisation? The SP wonders whether the Minister takes the concerns about this sufficiently seriously. Where the UWV already bears the responsibility for interpretation in the context of disability, there are already the necessary complaints, for example about long waiting times and the lack of expertise with the target group. I ask the Minister to respond to these complaints and to indicate how he will deal with them. How is contact with the target group improved and how does the Minister ensure that the knowledge and skills acquired by other interpretation organisations, which are not now covered by the tender, are not lost? Mr. Chairman. If I read the explanatory memorandum to this law correctly, people are not made very easy to use an interpreter. Not only do they have to deal with the UWV, which makes the application, the decision and the payment to the interpreter, but also with an external service provider, who will take over the mediation between interpreter and interpreter. That doesn't exactly sound like a very convenient solution to me. If the UWV as a whole becomes responsible for interpreting, what is more obvious than starting to employ a lot of interpreters, so that we can skip all that unnecessary bureaucracy and unnecessary procurement? Why does the Minister choose to award contracts? Were there really no other options? I'd like to get a reaction to that. The Minister is optimistic. He writes in the explanatory statement that users will in practice mainly have to deal with a party with a lot of expertise in the field of interpretation and interpretation users. The question is whether the Minister can live up to that promise, because the tender has now been awarded to Interkcontact, but it has just been said that Interknet will not participate in this tender. I would ask the Minister to respond to the criticism made by Tolknet. Does he understand that it is a serious problem for this organisation that the tender runs for eight years, but that you can be done after two years? It seems to me very problematic that you do not have that determination: you get the assignment, which basically applies for eight years, but after two years the UWV can already say: todeledokie, we go with another in the sea. I don't think that's the certainty they need. For example, Interknet also indicates that a substantial investment is needed, but that the rates are inadequate and that the investments will only be recovered if the eight-year period can actually be completed. Does the Minister consider it realistic that the UWV should demand that the mediator succeed in making contact between interpreter and user in 98% of the cases? That's the percentage that I've seen. I ask the Minister whether that percentage is correct and whether he considers that realistic. And would he then find it right that, if that percentage is not met, sanctions should be applied immediately? And what about organisations of interpreters who are now out of business? Can the UWV still enable these organizations? I would like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, because I really am not going to complete the ten minutes, I do not think there is much discussion about the need to organise the offer of interpretation nationally. But if the procurement rules lead to unrealisticly low prices and nonsense of bureaucracy, which happens quite often when we go to procurement, then this minister should come up with other solutions, because this is the minister who wants to get rid of bureaucracy and of procurement in the care sector. Then let him begin the interpretation and organise it as a public task. I'd like to hear if he's willing to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you. Then Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Quite a few public services have been transferred to municipalities in recent years, because they are closer to residents, which also means that help and care are closer; that is the underlying idea. This debate discusses a legislative amendment which centralises a number of provisions. Listening lines, to which people can call when they need a listening ear, interpretation facilities, to which people with auditory disabilities can therefore claim a hearing limitation and confidence work in the youth are also centrally regulated by this law. Mr Hijink has already asked a number of nice questions about interpretation facilities. We are happy to support that. For GroenLinks too, it is very important that these facilities remain accessible to everyone. Mr. Chairman. In practice, there is not so much change, because these facilities are largely centrally regulated. As the Minister himself points out, it is a formalization of the current working method. GroenLinks is in favour of this, because it saves a lot of bureaucracy if not all 355 municipalities have to conclude contracts with central services or have to provide their own. It is good to lay down this course of action by law as well. But that's not all that's being treated today. An important change brought about by the change in the law is a change in the definition and requirements of the trusted person working in youth care. It is good to talk about this, because trusted people in the youth care sector are doing extremely important work. When children are admitted to a youth support institution, it is important that they have access to a trusted person, because they or they can inform children about their rights and help them with complaints and with all the questions and concerns that exist. Parents and caregivers involved in youth assistance can also contact confidential persons with their questions. Currently, trusted persons are trained and provided by the AKJ, an organisation that operates independently and is independent of youth aid organisations, the Children's Protection Board, foster care organisations and youth and neighbourhood teams. This is important, because a trusted person can only work 100% for a child if he or she is completely independent. On December 6, 2018, the AKJ came out with worrying news. It argued that the amendment would ensure that a trusted person no longer has to work with an independent legal entity. We also find this worrying, as more parties would then be allowed to participate in the field of trust work, which would remove the independence of legal persons. We have already asked the Minister about this. He then stated that he thought that the AKJ was particularly opposed to the possibility of other confidential persons working outside the AKJ. But the Minister did say that he wanted to add in the definition of "confidence" that a trusted person should be independent of a municipality, a youth support institution, a certified institution or the Safe Home organisation with which the young or the parents then have to deal. Of course this sounds very nice, but in a second letter from the AKJ, which we received at the end of January, there is another story. The AKJ states that the amendment not only amends the definition of "confidence person," but also removes the second paragraph of Article 2.6 altogether. That Member states precisely that a trusted person must be employed by an independent legal person. Together with the AKJ, GroenLinks is concerned that the proposal that that member should expire would mean that a trusted person would no longer have to work with an independent legal entity. If everyone is allowed to carry out confidence-building work, then legal inequality arises for clients within the Youth Act, then the independence of the legal person disappears, also by allowing bodies themselves to put forward trusted persons. The difference between trusted people is also greater. The AKJ has a standardized training course, with many training and quality requirements to maintain the skills of trusted persons. In doing so, the Chamber loses the national monitor about complaints in youth care. The AKJ reports annually to the Ministry of Social Affairs, which loses its value if other parties were allowed to participate in trust work in the youth care sector. Mr President, I think you understand that I have a number of questions. Looking at the consequences of the removal of that Member, I do not understand why the Minister wants to delete it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a number of questions. The first question is: what is the justification for dropping the member guaranteeing that a trusted person has to work with an independent legal entity? Does the Minister wish to waive the expiry of this paragraph, given the consequences I have just outlined? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. A subject that fits in with this is the accessibility of children in youth assistance to trusted people. I've asked about that before. It was specifically about children who had to deal with freedom-limiting measures. Think of children in an institution who have to spend much of their time in their rooms, or children who sometimes end up in solitary confinement. Where should these children go when asking questions or complaints, or just for a listening ear? In the ideal case, of course, this is your own supervisor. But sometimes the relationship is very complex or the situation is not good enough. Then, of course, there's always a confidant. In principle, the AKJ visits institutions every few weeks to inform children of their rights, but before I understood from young people with a past in youth care that these conversations sometimes only take place in group or in the presence of the supervisor. Mr. Chairman. I think we can all imagine that these young people, who often have very complex problems and are in a very difficult situation, cannot discuss everything in a group or in the presence of a supervisor. I think they need a listening ear from someone who is there specifically for them, a person to whom they can present their problems and, if necessary, to whom they can also submit complaints about the institution or about the supervisor. That is why we tabled an amendment to the law this morning to ensure that young people always have access to a trusted person who works independently and is not associated with the institution. We think it is important that young people, especially when they are in a closed institution, should always be able to talk one-on-one to that trusted person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	A question from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	D66 is very much in favour of Mrs Westerveld's speech. When I look at her amendment, I understand that she says in the article of the law that it should be possible to do so, and that we entirely share that young people are in contact with a trusted person without the intervention of third parties. Agreed! But when we read the explanatory statement, it seems as if it is no longer allowed to have that contact with the intervention of a third party. The second paragraph states: "This amendment ensures that the law lays down that the involvement of others in the contact between client and trusted person is not permitted." I would like to ask Mrs Westerveld if she can look again at the explanatory statement. Once again, we can fully imagine the reason and purpose behind it, but it cannot be the case that the intervention of a third party should never again be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	I have the explanation with me, too. I understand how Mrs Bergkamp reads it. That is expressly not the intention, because sometimes it can be that a young person wants to talk to a confidential person together with the supervisor. In any case, it is up to us not to ask permission first, if a young person needs it. There must therefore always be access to the trusted person without the intervention of a third party, whether that is a counselor or whether it is the parents. That's the point. I am certainly prepared to take a look at the explanatory statement and see whether we should adapt it. For it is not intended that this is expressly not allowed. Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday we received a report from Defence for Children. It confirms the image I just painted. The conversations they have also show that children sometimes find it difficult to make appointments with or submit complaints to a trusted person, because in some institutions they are only allowed to do so through a mentor or group leader. This is undesirable and remarkable, because the Youth Act also states that the youth aid provider and the certified institution should allow a trusted person to carry out his duties. So for the confidant, that is well regulated in the law. It's also nice that this is on paper. But we do not think it is good enough, as I said just now, because access to a trusted person is, of course, made more difficult when a child is allowed to speak only in a group or in the presence of a counselor, or when a child is only allowed to approach a trusted person with his or her mentor's approval. Mr. Chairman. I told you, a child must be able to have contact with a trusted person without the intervention of others. This also contributes to the well-being of children and ensures that trust work is not made more difficult. It is this group that benefits enormously from access to a trusted person who is really only there for him. For this reason, I also hope that the Minister is positive about our amendment, which ensures that children can contact the trusted person independently and independently. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to inform you and the Minister of the concerns of the YOUR Parental Platform. This is a foundation that helps parents with their questions about the support their child receives in the care. Given the complexity of the matter, it can also be very complicated for individual parents to find answers to their questions. The YOUR Parental Platform is concerned that in the past year it was no longer possible for parents with disciplinary complaints to switch on trust because the budget is up and this is not seen as a primary task. They also state in the letter that in practice there is little support for parents and that in some situations parents spend six months or sometimes longer answering their questions. They also argue that sometimes work is done without aid plans, that they are not informed of their rights and that sometimes there is a lack of consent and exchange of very sensitive information. In view of this considerable criticism, I would ask the Minister if he knows and shares these concerns. If so, what does the Minister intend to do about these problems? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. I am curious to hear the Minister's response to our questions. GroenLinks believes it is extremely important that people with confidence in youth care remain independent and that children have access to these persons without the intervention of their mentors, supervisors or other individuals. I hope that the Minister agrees with us that young people should always be able to call on someone who is specific to them. We just have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Then Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. "How you communicate is less important than how you understand each other." This is a passage from the book So I hear, in which parents tell me what it's like to have a child with auditory limitations. An interpreter is incredibly important. They make sure that people with auditory limitations can participate in our society and that we can understand each other, whether at school, at work or visiting the doctor. But for each domain the interpretation was arranged differently. We therefore welcome the fact that people with auditory limitations are now dealing with only one implementation organisation. That is why we are in favour of this proposal. Mr. Chairman. I do have a number of questions, first of all about the greater role of the UWV. The interest groups, both those with auditory limitations and those of the interpreters themselves, are not really ecstatic about this, to say the least. Is the UWV ready for these new tasks at the entry date of 1 July 2019? That's what we're worried about. The UWV concluded in the execution test that it is feasible, provided that the procurement procedure was completed in good time. The aim of this tender was to find an external organisation that will implement the interpretation provision in the field of mediation, information and invoicing on behalf of the UWV. The organization was found in Berengroep. The question now is whether this tender has been timely. So can the UWV carry out the new tasks properly as of 1 July and also meet, also important, the statutory payment deadlines? The Minister states that the introduction on 1 July 2019 may be accompanied by inconvenience for the interpreter users, such as delay in processing the applications. It is then, the minister says, to the UWV and the Berengroup to communicate on this in good time and in good time. I don't think that's very strong. I think we should assume that if a date is agreed, it will be well arranged from that date. Otherwise, we're gonna have to see if there's another date. But I don't think the users should suffer. I therefore hope that this Minister will be reassured that he is going to be okay. Mr. Chairman. There are situations where an interpreter is needed quickly. This is not necessarily about the provision of interpretation, but about police, justice, youth care, for example. At the moment, Interpreting Interpreters in this kind of situation. My question to the Minister is whether the Berengroup will soon take over this mediation. Or who's gonna take over? According to our group, there is now a gap there. It is therefore important to clarify this in this debate. Mr. Chairman. Once someone has a statement from the general practitioner or a medical specialist indicating that someone has been referred to the interpretation services, someone can apply to the UWV. However, it sometimes takes up to eight weeks for an interpretation application to be approved. Those are eight weeks in which someone simply has to wait and can't participate in education, work and you name it all. I find this kind of lead times really long. What is the average application time? How often is the legal deadline exceeded? Does the Minister find that acceptable and if not, what is he going to do about it? Of course, there's a reason. I myself asked written questions about it in 2017, because at that time there were more than 1,700 invoices in which the legal payment period of 30 days was exceeded. This means that many interpreters were not paid for the valuable work they do. An interpreter can then file a claim with the UWV by submitting a custom declaration, which is increased by legal interest, but that is of course the reverse world. If an organisation fails to comply with the legal payment deadline, we expect it to automatically send a custom invoice with a correction and not that the interpreter should then act. Does the Minister agree? A simple yes or no would reassure my group. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll talk about the bulletin board of the Interpreter. I had made a call on Twitter to see if there are any important topics that play. Well, my mailbox was flooded over that bulletin board from Tolknet. For D66 the freedom of choice in care is important, even when it comes to an interpreter. I say that explicitly to this minister. An interpreter is so much more than just someone to communicate with or through. That freedom of choice was well secured in the so-called bulletin board of Tolknet. When someone needed an interpreter, someone could post a message with the interpreter situation. Interpreters could respond, people could present themselves, sometimes even movies were spread, after which the person could make a choice. This way of working is of course useful both for those who are deaf or hearing impaired and for the interpreter. However, Interpreter contact, the Berengroep system, simply became: "with which interpreter? Well the closest and who comes first, gets the first." So my question to the Minister is whether you can still choose your interpreter when it comes to interpretation facilities. And if so, isn't that also important when it comes to the freedom of choice of people who are deaf or hearing impaired? It is sometimes possible to stress this for a moment: very personal situations, a visit to a general practitioner or the presence at a cremation. Then it makes sense that you want to know who the interpreter is and that you can personally see if there is a click. I realize that most deaf and hearing impaired know their way around and have all kinds of interpreters in their addresses, but when I look at the bulletin board of Tolknet, there are more than 6,000 people who posted a message on it in 2018, half of which was about the world of life. So there are a lot of people who need it. That is why I hope that I am extremely pleased that there is also an interpreter here today who is going to do more than a few gestures, but also says that he is taking this into account in the implementation and that he is guaranteeing freedom of choice. Mr President, nothing about us "without us." In the run-up to this debate, I received an e-mail from the core group on harmonisation interpretation, in which they said, and that is a compliment to the Minister that they were always closely involved in the development process of this bill. That's really good to hear. I also hope that the Minister can promise that when it comes to the whole process, the people we are talking about will remain firmly involved in this process, because we are not quite there yet. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the interpretation facilities, two centralizations are introduced in the law. First of all, the listening lines, which offer a listening ear with a team of 1,500 volunteers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. I would also like to express my deep appreciation from here on for these people who are doing this important work, for example for callers when it comes to loneliness or mental problems. D66 is positive in relation to that centralization. After all, costs cannot be reduced to municipalities and such a listening line should simply be accessible 24 hours a day, for everyone, regardless of any municipality. So I am also pleased with this decision. The Minister also wants to centralise the independent trusted person in the Youth Act, but as my colleague Mr Westerveld pointed out, this is accompanied by a change in its definition. For example, all people who have a valid explanation of the behaviour and perform the trusted work professionally or non-incidentally voluntarily can soon act as a trusted person. In itself, I can imagine that you do not want to limit it, but concerns have been expressed that this would result in some kind of legal inequality. So I'd like another coloring of that by the Minister. However, my colleague also gave this to Mr O'Brien we no longer have the national information on how that goes. Surely that is very useful information, for example: how am I to be treated, what are the problems? So I hope that there is a solution to that, that as a Chamber we can carry out our audit task and that we can get that information. How does the Minister look at this and how do we ensure that we do not lose the overview? We are talking about valuable information, such as those for which the trusted persons are used, which also helps us to strengthen national policies through local policies, because that is, of course, where the responsibility lies. Finally, I try to teach my little girl a little sign language sometimes. She sometimes understands that more than the word. It's very nice no matter how kids react to sign language. I'm not gonna imitate the minister here. I have one gesture I dare to make: the gesture for "thank you." We were meant to understand each other through gestures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	But you're making a neck-cut gesture towards the minister. We usually do that with motions of mistrust. It's 12:15 in the afternoon. I call Mr Kerstens of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill that was announced by the previous cabinet with a very long name, even if you use the short version. The Law centralize interpretation facilities auditively limited living and working domains, listening lines and trust work youth. I have to do it with that, because the abbreviation is also not: the WCTABLLEVJ. Not a very good name perhaps, but a good law, as far as the Labour Party is concerned and an important one. For people who are deaf or hearing impaired, who, of course, like all of us, want to participate fully in and in our society, but who need a little more, and sometimes a lot more, help in doing so. For people, children too, who are looking for someone to talk to, for a listening ear especially. If you don't see it anymore, for example, or if you don't see the forest through the trees. And for people, young people with parents or foster parents who, because of the circumstances, need an independent confidant, someone to whom they can turn up when faced with problems, when there are questions about youth aid. The importance of a provision like this is beyond question to me. Low-threshold, personal, with someone next to you instead of in front of you, someone who doesn't judge, who isn't convicted, but who is there for you. From here on in the first place a heartfelt word of thanks and appreciation to all those interpreters and all those people, volunteers often, who are on the Children's Phone for example or on the Wmo Listening Line. And, of course, to the professional youth counsellors. Hats off, you're all doing an extremely important job! Then the law. The law that centralizes all the important issues that are at stake here, because it is better for the people who ultimately are or should be involved. I therefore agree with the movement formalised by this law, with the laying down of responsibility with the Empire, with the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, and no longer with municipalities, if only because they are more than full of all other tasks under the Youth Act, the Social Support Act and the Participation Act. It would be a bad thing if these important facilities were to suffer, especially because these facilities should provide support to the people concerned. Think, for example, of people who are deaf or hearing impaired and who can participate in our society through study or work. For them, good interpretation is vital. In this respect, on the one hand, I think it is logical that the facilities should be invested in the UWV. At the same time, I understand the scepticism about the UWV in people who are dependent on it and in interpreters all too well. From my previous period in the Chamber I can remember that the UWV once thought it was a good idea to advise deaf and hearing impaired people to make a phone call in case of questions. I'm afraid that's not a joke. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister has chosen to involve the interests of the deaf and the hearing impaired and of interpreters closely and to keep an eye on them himself. This does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury, for example because there is still a lot to be done in the field of ICT. By the way, I do have a suggestion to increase confidence in the UWV. My suggestion is that this legislative amendment should also be used to strengthen the scope of interpretation in the field of work, as it is called, that the purpose of this provision is to promote the participation of deaf and hearing impaired people in education and the labour market, and that this should therefore be a guiding principle. I say this because people want to take training more often, the chances of getting into the labour market are greater and the jobs that people aspire to are more varied compared to the time when the rules on interpretation were created. If I were the minister, I would, together with, for example, Deafship or an extremely enthusiastic club like Grow2Work, which exclusively focuses on strengthening the position of deaf and hearing impaired people in the labour market, and with the UWV, identify and tackle bottlenecks in this area by offering more customization when it comes to tolling at work, for example forzzp'ers, or when doing a follow-up course, a second master's degree or something. Then the UWV is seen more as part of the solution than as part of the problem. By the way, the UWV has outsourced some of the matters relating to interpretation facilities. The question remains whether, if there is any discussion about these tasks, complaints about them should be submitted to that organisation or to the UWV. I also agree with the comments made by Mr Hijink, among others, on the tendering procedure, the duration of the contract and so on. Mr. Chairman. As I said, when it comes to the Wmo Listening Line, the Children's Phone and the Trusters, I welcome the centralisation that this proposal is putting in place, including the deletion of its own contribution, within the meaning of the additional call charges levied until 1 January of this year. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the great importance of good performance, both in terms of form, content and tone, for the target groups, of communication on what is going to change when.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. Then Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Actually, it's pretty clear. What a municipality can arrange, the municipality arranges. What a municipality can't arrange, you arrange by region. And what cannot be arranged regionally, you arrange nationwide. That's how it's gotta be. But it's not always like that. Look at The Child Phone." That's what I wrote in spring 2017. I also wrote: "The Child Phone is a good thing. Kids who have something to worry about can make a phone call. And they're being helped anonymously. That's low-threshold. That's useful. And it's been for years. So the Child's Phone has to stay. Almost everyone agrees on that. Until recently, De Kindertelephone was arranged nationwide. That was nice and practical and clear. And as far as I know, there was no one complaining about that. But then someone got an idea." So that's what I wrote in 2017. I also wrote: "If municipalities are responsible for youth care, then they have to buy care themselves. Even if they all want to buy the same product as with The Child Phone. Why is that a good idea? No one can tell me. For what problem is that a solution? No one can tell me. Then why do we do that? No one can tell me. For me it is so obvious: what the municipality can arrange, the municipality regulates. What the municipality can't arrange, you arrange by region. What you can't arrange by region, you arrange nationally. If you do not, you make things unnecessarily complicated and bureaucratic, and I don't think anyone wants that at all. Having a national service such as the Child's Phone shop locally is not a decentralisation; that is a dispersal. So don't do it." Mr. Chairman. It took some effort, but in the end Secretary of State Van Rijn agreed with the CDA. It wasn't a good plan. It was a job offer. A solution has been found, which has become final with this bill. That's what the CDA's happy about. The same applies, of course, to the deaf interpreter. Every municipality needs such a provision. I think Mr Kerstens has told us very well how important it is to have a deaf interpreter. Everyone needs that provision and it is therefore crazy not to buy this centrally. However, the CDA still has a number of questions to the Minister. Why was it chosen to place that interpretation facility at the UWV? After all, the largest group of users of the interpreting facility uses it for the real estate and not necessarily for the work domain. Have any other options been considered? I'd like a response from the Minister. The Government states in the explanatory statement that there is one process and one window at the level of implementation, but that the four different laws on education, work, WIA, Wajong, Participation Law.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Can the Minister explain this? for the user, this means that the application for interpretation services for different domains cannot always be combined. Or does the CDA see that wrong? The largest group of users of the interpreting facility, as mentioned above, uses it not for the work, but for the habitat, a domain of which the CDA wonders whether the UWV has eaten cheese from it. Does the government also see this lack of knowledge of the employees of the UWV as a problem? Can the UWV hire additional employees who have this expertise in their home? How does the Minister at least take care of that soft landing? There have already been other parties who have asked questions about the implementation capacity of the UWV in this regard. Does the Minister foresee implementation problems at the UWV? During the consultation round, it became clear that interest groups would like to support the transition to the UWV, but would like to keep a finger on the pulse in terms of the practical implementation of the UWV. Can the Minister explain how this finger can be organized on the wrist? Can the Minister very well monitor that everything is indeed going as hoped and inform the Chamber about it? Finally, can the Minister indicate how the target group will be informed that all interpreting facilities will be carried out via the UWV in terms of application? So much for my first-term contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. Then Mrs Tielen of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. When I was a little girl, it already existed and my mother actively referred to it when I was angry with my parents or dissatisfied with their decisions. "Then you'll be on the phone with the Child's Phone, won't you? Surely there is someone there who will listen to you." The Child Phone is a good and effective tool for children and young people. With 1.4 million unique website visitors and almost 200,000 phone and chat conversations a widely known and used means, nationally available and relevant for children, whether they live in Amsterdam, Bronkhorst or Cuijk. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Child Phone is organised nationwide and we are discussing today a legislative proposal that is also legally anchoring this provision. This is true for the Child's Phone and the Listening Line, which is actually a kind of Child's Phone for large people, but also for the interpretation and independent confidants. The VVD is positive about the proposed law, because it now regulates what actually works well in today's practice. I told you, almost 200,000 children and young people speak or chat with the Child Phone in a year. The Listening Line offers a listening ear to about 300,000 adults with questions and problems. A lot of people who are auditively limited use interpreters. The independent Youth Trust Person has proved to be a support and departure for more than 10,000 people involved. Compliment and appreciation for all those people with listening ears. Let me use this debate to ask the Minister a few more questions that can contribute to further improving this support function. I would like to talk about the familiarity and approachability of the youth confidants, the abuse of listening lines and the service provided by UWV with regard to interpretation facilities. The VVD was not the only party to ask questions about the expectations of the UWV in terms of interpretation facilities. The VVD acknowledges that the UWV already has experience in this field and understands the Minister's choice of setting up a one-stop shop with the UWV for deaf and hearing impaired people who need an interpreter to arrange care, education and the so-called habitat. That is of course especially convenient and pleasant for them. At the same time, we are keen that the UWV provides excellent services for both the interpreters and the other stakeholders, such as the interpreters themselves, customer-friendly, easy, without too much red tape and waiting times, and guaranteeing your privacy. How can the Minister ensure that UWV can also meet these high expectations? The VVD would like to see the Minister monitoring the service, so that he can adjust in good time if necessary. I'd like a response. On our questions about the expiry of the own contribution for the listening lines................................................................................................................................................ The Minister gave clear answers to the VVD. The abuse is already very low and the Minister also evaluates the effects of the expiry of that contribution during this year. We look forward with him to the hopefully few surprising results of that and ask that, if there are any surprises, we watch them with us. Then the confidants youth. The existence and role of these people is very important. For many parents and children, for many families and young people, the emotional domain of youth aid and protection often produces feelings of uncertainty and impotence. It's unclear if you're with the right counselor. There is incomprehension and anger about decisions. An independent person who looks with you from a distance is absolutely necessary for a lot of people involved. If we put it that way, it is quite surprising that despite the sharp increase in the number of youth aid seekers, the number of people who turn to the people who trust them has remained stable. Over the past few years, it's been moving around 10,000. It may be that independent customer supporters may already be able to capture questions and concerns at an earlier stage. To be sure, we could ask the VNG to get that straight. But quite frankly, that is not the signal I receive from practice. I suspect that a large proportion of young people and their parents are not familiar at all with the possibility of approaching an independent confidential person. My question to the Minister is therefore whatever explanation he sees. What can and will he do to ensure that all young people and parents involved in youth aid and youth protection who need it are really aware of the possibility of an independent listening ear, a trusted person. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Enough said, I think by the other parties as well. For now, as far as I am concerned, with this bill, we are ensuring that at least there is a listening ear for all those parents and children, for all people with auditory limitations. That ear was already there, but let's just settle it right now. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will propose to my group to support the Minister's proposals, and I agree with the questions that have been raised. For the rest, I had to say these meaningless sentences, otherwise I would not be allowed to take part in the rest of the debate, should a further question arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u19	Those are nice words. Not a word too much, I say, and as chairman I always appreciate pointiness. I'll suspend for 15 minutes. Then the Minister's gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u20	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Chairman. The break between the first term of the Chamber and the first term of the Cabinet lasted a little longer, but that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u22	Because you're gonna do everything in sign language?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u23	... because I really wanted to do the first rules in sign language. So now I'm saying he-le goe-de-mid-day. Then I'll start with the bill. The legislative proposal envisages the centralisation of a number of provisions. De facto, as Mrs Tielen said, of course, the implementation of this is already centralised, but it was not properly regulated by law. That is the reason for this bill, even when deployed under my predecessor. A number of questions have been asked and I would like to answer them in the following blocks. One, the interpretation facilities. Two, confidence-building youth. Three, listening ear. Four, the Child Phone and then, because that's tradition, five, the block of varia. Then you'd think, "Was there something for it in the block of varia?" You will notice that: yes, there was indeed; beware.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u24	That is what Mrs Van Bijsterveldt started, the cup of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yeah, and do you know who worked for her back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u26	We don't want to know anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u27	It wakes me up sometimes, suddenly, in the middle of the night. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Before I go too private, I think I'm just going to have to deal with the law now, starting with the block of interpretation services. Interpreting, and this is true of all the provisions contained in this law, is vital and extremely important for the people who make use of it. The same applies to interpretation facilities. So I can also very well imagine that there are concerns, although of course we have taken all kinds of steps to regulate it as precisely as possible and as carefully as possible, especially with the target group, as Mrs Bergkamp said. Those who have been concerned, I notice, lately a bit to do with the three-letter combination UWV. And although I understand that, I would like to examine with you the way in which we have come to that conclusion and why I really think that is the best choice. Why did we choose to place those interpretation facilities at the UWV? We did not do this in splendid isolation, but together with the ministries of Social Affairs and OCW, and with the interest organisations. We have looked at how we could reach an executive across these domains. Not only the working domain and the educational domain are now at the UWV. This would also bring the habitat to the UWV. That is why we considered the UWV to be the most appropriate organisation. First, because taking a decision on an application for a provision has legal effects on the applicant. That means you can't just invest that job with a private party. It has to be with a public party. It's gotta be an administrative board. In addition, we wanted an integration of the performers, i.e. one performer for all interpretation facilities, of all three domains. The UWV is already carrying out that domain of work and education. By adding the realm to it, that starting point is really achieved. It had to be an administrative body, but with any other administrative body it would have been necessary to remove work and education from the UWV and then transfer it there. That would actually only give more hassle in the transition over the coming time. An additional and not insignificant advantage is that the implementation costs for users and interpreters can be reduced because it is one working process for all three domains. For example, you only have to provide proof once that you have an auditory limitation. On the question of why people have to prove time and time again that they have a restriction, we have the debate here very often. Well, that's gonna have to be a lot less here. That helps. Still, I understand that there are concerns. That is why we must ensure that we keep our finger on each other's wrists. So let me meet with your Chamber, Mrs Tielen asked that we let you know just after 1 July, keep that finger on the wrist for the coming year and let you know in a year's time how it's going. A lot of specific questions have been asked. I'm gonna walk it one-on-one now. Is the UWV ready for the date of 1 July? Mrs Bergkamp asked me to. The answer is yes, anyway, because they are already implementing that field of work and education. That's one. Two, there's a private party on time that helps the UWV. The grant does the UWV itself, but the mediation and billing does the Berengroep mentioned by you. It came out of that tender. It's completed in time. There is no reason to think that now, but if there are any unexpected problems with the implementation, then the UWV as an emergency scenario can simply continue the current way of working. Interpreters and interpreters must not be hindered by this. Nor should it be if we look at what has been set up for this purpose. Then there was a question about the availability on an application. There's a legal deadline of eight weeks for that. If it is exceeded, Mrs Bergkamp's question was. We have checked this, but the deadline has always proved to be ample, is our information. There are situations, for example, where there is a need for an interpreter quickly. That was also a question from Mrs Bergkamp. Will the Berengroep take over from TolkenNet? Yeah, that's part of the assignment to the Berengroep. I've been talking about the eight weeks. How is the current complaints handled? We are actually not aware of any complaints at the moment. Two years ago there were problems with the payment of the interpreters. That's what Mrs Bergkamp said. I understand that with a new system of self-billing, which I heard for the first time, that has come to a solution. Fortunately, the complaints about payment are something of a past tense. At least that's our information about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u28	I asked a specific question about that. Hopefully, in the occasional situation where the deadline is exceeded, statutory interest is levied on it, an increase. In the past, the interpreter had to send a custom declaration to the UWV himself. Can I assume that the UWV is in the lead in the current ICT system to ensure payment plus interest and information towards interpreter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u29	Now you're going very far into the depths. I'm just looking for my answer. That self-billing system is that interpreters themselves put the necessary data into that system and draw up an invoice. The invoice is made by the system where the interpreters themselves fill in their data. The invoices are then paid automatically, three to five days after their introduction. In short, the system prevents late payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u30	This means that this legal interest will never have to be applied again, because it will always be paid within the legal time limit. That certainty can now be given to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u31	Following the situation in 2017, a new system of invoicing has been introduced. I understand that's called self-billing. That was something new for me, so you learn something. In doing so, the interpreters themselves shall enter their data. An agreement is requested from the interpreter and when that agreement is in place, the payment is automated three to five days later. This does not actually prevent late payment, unless there is no agreement from the interpreter, but then something else is going on. In that case, the conciliation procedure should be initiated in any case. But that's an exception. Mr. Chairman. Why does the Minister actually opt for procurement and is not everyone hired? Why isn't it organized as a public task? Part of this task is precisely a public task, because it is about having and having to be done by an administrative body as part of the government. In addition, there are two tasks assigned to the successful tenderer. One is handling the billing and the other is doing the mediation. The interpreters are often self-employed. They're not on the payroll of a tendered party or anything. This is only about a mediation service and about billing. I would think that, on its own, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u32	I don't know if that's okay. It's a choice you make. You can also make another choice. The Minister says on all fronts that it would be good if we were to contract less and if we could give people more and more a good job. I happen to know a few people who work as an interpreter, and that's not a big deal in general. It could, of course, help if the UWV, which regularly has to employ interpreters, had a large number of interpreters. Then you can just offer these people a decent job, a good pension and normal working conditions. I don't see the problem in that. I do see a problem that now arises with an extra layer in between that can create bureaucracy and unnecessary costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u33	I generally agree with this type of plea, but I think there is really a misunderstanding here. The interpreters simply remain what they are, namely simply interpreting. They're often independent. That's not going to be tendered here either. What is happening here is that, by law, a number of services are centralised and invested in the government. That is what Mr Hijink has to say, and that is what I am talking about: less market. However, Mr Hijink suspects that this bill also deals with the procurement of the interpreter himself. That is not the case. The only thing that is tendered is not what we do but the UWV is a certain part of the service, namely mediation and invoicing. The interpreters are therefore not involved in the tender. We set the rates ourselves. I hope that reassures you. That's not part of a tender or anything. Interpreting rates are set centrally at VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u34	I understand what's happening. I also understand that the tender is about the mediator. I understand that very well. That wasn't my question either. My question is: if the government needs an x-number of interpreters to help people, what would be against the government's own organization? Then you can offer people who are now forced to work as an interpreter as azzp'er perhaps a very decent and good job instead of that uncertain existence they now have. I'm not saying that should apply to everyone. It is up to you, but it is up to you to decide whether you should always opt for a tender and whether you should organise the hiring of interpreters by means of a call for tenders. You could also say: the UWV needs an x-number of interpreters and we're just gonna take them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u35	I'm a little worried that we're discussing a problem here that doesn't exist. Those interpreters are just there, even now. They're just doing their job, their wonderful work. They'd love to. We're not gonna change anything about that. The only thing that changes here is: where do you position the access to that interpreter? You position them at the UWW and the UWV then says: for a part of the service we do a tender. By the way, nothing really changes for the interpreters. The only thing that changes, the only thing that concerns this tender, is a part of the service that is invested in UWV by law, per this legislation. You also asked whether the invitation to tender for interpretation would lead to a reduction in interpretation fees. Of this, I say no, only the interpretation mediation services are tendered, and that has nothing to do with the compensation that interpreters get for work and travel expenses. I set the rates myself, in consultation with relevant organisations, and they are indexed every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u36	Just an afterburner on the mediation. I am not talking about interpretation, I am talking about justice, police and youth services. The minister says it was part of the tender. Eventually, Berengroep won it. So bear group's gonna run it. Is that right? I just wanted to check that out just to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u37	Yes, yes. Then another question from Mr Hijink: how do you deal with the criticism of Tokknet? I am a little hesitant to go into that very deeply, because it has simply been part of the procurement process. There's been a tender. Of these, the parties can say that they are or are not going to subscribe to it. I understand that Tolknet said, "We're not going to sign up for that." I cannot support the claim that it takes so many years to recoup an investment. The possibility of terminating a contract seems to me to be useful in principle. If you put out a contract for eight years and don't take out such a provision, you can't get rid of each other if you're unhappy. It seems to me to be taken on its own... I now have to look into the minds of the contracting authority that made this call for tender. I don't think it's such a curious provision that you say: if it's all disappointing, then you should be able to get rid of each other. That's what happens in more calls for tenders. I do not wish to go into too much detail. One has made the choice not to participate and that is allowed; equally good friends. Then it became the Berengroep. By the way, the Berengroep already did the habitat for VWS. It is now housed at VWS for a year; perhaps a bit curious positioning, but it was the only possibility last year. That mediation is already done by the Berengroep and has now won the tender at the UWV. In any case, we know that we have a good party to carry out the mediation. We have had excellent experience of it over the past year. Mr Hijink also asked to what extent it was realistic that 98% of the intercessions between the interpreter and the user should succeed. In practice, it appears that in 90% of cases the user brings his own interpreter. So, in fact, only 10% of the cases require mediation. In this context, I believe that 98% should be a viable map. But by monitoring, the UWV checks whether it can do so. This is part of the contractual arrangements. Then the bulletin board function of Tokknet and thus the freedom for the users. Maybe in the light of that 90%. So 90% of the people bring an interpreter with them themselves. I would say to Mrs Bergkamp that they have freedom of choice in optima forma. For 10%, it seems that mediation is necessary. It looks at a substantive match, but it also looks at travel distance. That doesn't seem so illogical to me either. If you live in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, where I was of the week and the interpreter has to come from North Groningen, where I am Monday... That's quite a long journey. At the same time, if there is no content match, if there is no click, that is important in tollable language. But taking no account of that travel distance seems so clumsy to me. I think it's actually quite logical, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u38	Of course the travel distance is also important. The number of kilometres has been maximized and an interpreter will, of course, see how far he has to travel, looking at how many hours he will eventually be interpreting. So that consideration makes the interpreter himself. We can say here: we think everything is going to be okay. But I've had a lot of reactions about the bulletin board, so I think it's a little too easy to say: I just think it's a good approach and method of working. I'm kind of sorry about that. In the end, there is also freedom of choice for that 10%. Those are the people who may have a smaller network and who may need to be helped a little more. The current system looks very closely at the interpreter's place of residence, but that interpreter can also work elsewhere at some point. Then it might be much more convenient and efficient to arrange it differently. So I urge the Minister to consult for once, because the process has gone so well, including with the interest groups; have been taken into account with the UWV and the interest groups to see if there really is no omission there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u39	Exactly. Then give me the opportunity to have a little talk. Suddenly saying that we have to go to a system where distance no longer counts, seems to me to be the other extreme. Let me enter into consultation, including with the interest groups, because we are often on the table with each other. Then we can see if this has been dealt with in the best way and with the best match. Then we'll see if we can take care of it. If I could make that promise to you, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u40	I like that commitment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u41	We've had the payment of the interpreter. I'll come back to the concerns at UWV, which we were just talking about. In particular, Mr Peters asks: did the UWV actually eat cheese from that habitat? I don't know if those were the words you used, perhaps I paraphrase you disrespectfully, Mr. Peters. Mr. Peters also asks: does the government see the chance to remove the knowledge deficit? In the field of education and work, this experience is already available at the UWV. And the UWV naturally wants to maintain or bring the quality of service to the same level as what is currently the case for the current domain, but also realizes that it is about a new domain. That is why the UWV has been working with interest organisations for some time to get the expertise of employees on that domain to a good level. There have been numerous meetings between UWV staff, interpretation users and interpreters in the framework of expertise promotion. That is also just being continued, because it is necessary. So I understand your concern. The UWV actually understands your concern, and is therefore working precisely in this way to ensure that that expertise is well secured. In doing so, the preparation of the front office for the three domains takes into account at the same time the expertise needed for that domain. As far as mediation and invoicing are concerned, the same party that is already doing so becomes the new party for UWV. So with that the expertise is secured and in that sum we ensure a soft landing. Then there is Mr Peters and Mrs Tielen's question on the wrist. On this point, I would like to say to you that this finger on the wrist is simply maintained by the interest groups. There is a sounding board set by the UWV. It provides that users and interpreters can share their concerns and concerns with the UWV. That sounding board group has actually been involved from the beginning, in the programme of procurement requirements, in the promotion of expertise for the staff, so what I just explained and in the preparation of all communication products. The representatives of these organisations have also visited the front office of the UWV in order to actually take an early look at what this implementation will look like. The UWV will also continue to involve interest groups in a structural manner. In the direction of your Chamber, I have promised that I will explain shortly after 1 July how this transfer actually went. We will keep our finger on the pulse, we will also continue to talk to the interest groups and in a year's time I will inform you whether it has actually landed properly. Then Mr Kerstens' question was: are there any overlapping tasks? We believe that this is actually a fairly separate part of the work process: invoicing and mediation are on the one hand and the granting of the right is on the other. At the same time, of course, there must be constant contact to ensure that this implementation is going well. Our image is that there's a lot of reason to just have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u42	I wasn't even so concerned about whether there were overlapping tasks. There are tasks laid down by two different organisations, ultimately under the responsibility of the UWV, I suppose. My specific question was as follows. Suppose you are not so satisfied with the way the task is carried out, not by the UWV, but by the other organization, by Berengroep. Where are you supposed to be if you want to file a complaint?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u43	At the UWV. Then the UWV has to ensure that it is executed properly, because the UWV is the client of the hiring party of this part of the work process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u44	I think that this is an ordinary procedure under the General Administrative Law Act, when it comes to objections, appeals, deadlines and so on. Does that mean that someone is also informed in writing in their contacts with the other organisation that they are entitled to appeal and appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u45	I'm not ready to do that; I need to check. But that makes sense to me. I would think that the right to appeal and appeal should be open, because this task has been deliberately laid down by an administrative body. So I'd think I'd have to agree with you. I'll check that out. Then Mr Peters asked about the interpretation. He asked if people now know about all the changes, that it's going to run through the UWV and so on. Interest groups are very well communicated to their own supporters. I therefore think that we are now very well aware of this. There has also been a question to the UWV to draw up a communication plan together with Berengroep. That's what they're gonna do. Of course, the organisations of users and interpreters are also involved. It's really important that everyone knows how it's gonna work from July 1st. Mr. Chairman. In my view, these were the answers to the questions that were asked about the interpretation. Then the next block, the confidence-building youth. That's of great value. Several speakers have said that, but I think that Mrs Westerveld has put forward that most pregnantly. It is of great value to everyone in the youth care system that there is access to trust work. That's about a lot of users, a lot of clients and a lot of questions. The number of questions is also increasing. It is important that young people in the youth care sector have effective access to the trusted person, even without the intervention of third parties. Then I shall come straight to the amendment, because that was a bit of Mrs Westerveld's pièce de résistance on this point. I share the need to have contact with a trusted person without the intervention of third parties, but the question is whether the amendment is the best answer. The first argument for this is that it is currently regulated in an AMvB. It's not gonna be any different, not even with this bill. So it's settled. The right to direct access without the intervention of third parties is governed by the AMvB. Then Mrs Westerveld will say: yes, but I do come across a situation in which this does not happen in practice. But then the first question we have to answer is of course: is it then the solution to write it down again in the law? Because a law and an AMvB have the same effect on implementation practice. So I don't think that's the answer. I think it's gonna take something else. I'll get back to you on that. The second argument for not being so enthusiastic about this amendment is that this amendment is actually narrower than the current AMvB. It says here: "The youth aid providers and the certified institution ensure that young people can have independent contact with the trusted person without the intervention of third parties." So here are Safe Home and the neighborhood teams not mentioned. They are mentioned in the AMvBs in the various sectoral laws, i.e. in the Decision Youth Act and in the Implementing Decision Wmo. That is why I honestly believe that in the current situation it is tighter, better and more complete than if we adopt this amendment. If we were to adopt this amendment, it would be a bit fuzzy, because it would stand for part of direct access in the law and for another part of direct access in the AMvBs. It's already in the AMvBs. This does not make the implementation practice perfect. I'll get back to you in a minute what we'll have to do. But I would think that this amendment is not going to help us very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u46	Of course, it is not our intention to submit something that has already been arranged and to narrow it down, but we have, of course, had contact with a lot of people in the preparation. We've also looked into what's been arranged now. Then we see that several AMvBs and decisions do provide for the trusted person to have access to institutions and that the trusted person can go independently to young people, but that it is precisely for the young person to have access to the trusted person not regulated. If what the Minister is saying is true, then I am very curious to know where it is and where, above all, the young person's right to go to a trusted person is precisely regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u47	This has to do with the level of wording, but there is nothing else that this amendment regulates in relation to the current possibilities. Having a confidant means you have access to it. Next, it is necessary that the trusted person also has free access to, for example, the buildings of either the youth aid provider or the municipality and that the young person does not need permission from another person to talk to a trusted person. As far as I can see, the AMvB currently has more complete arrangements than would have been the case with the amendment. I am looking again at the lodge, but I think that at the moment in the AMvB it is actually just tighter, better and more complete than in this amendment. I know what you mean, and I share what you mean. It's about having free access to that trusted person. I believe that free access is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u48	We hear from practice that this is not the case. This was also the result of the report of Defence for Children, but the decision of the Youth Act now states, among other things: "The trusted person has free access to the buildings" and "The trusted person does not need the permission of third parties to speak with a young person." It is very nice that this has been arranged, but we are concerned that the young person also does not need permission to speak with that confidant and that especially young people who are "closed" can go to a confidant at any time and therefore do not have to consult with the mentor first or even ask permission to do so alone in a group. So we really care about the young. Once again, as far as we have been able to find it, it is not now settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u49	I think we are on the same track: free access must be regulated and guaranteed. As I see it at the moment, that is guaranteed in a good way in that AMvB, by the way, under different laws. It is also more widely guaranteed, because the amendment would only apply to youth aid providers and GIs, while it should also be about Safe Home and district teams, but I think Mrs Westerveld agrees with me; yes, exactly. I'm still checking this out in full precision. We'll have a second term later. I can make two more minutes between the first time and the second time, in the suspension. I can't do that live, but I'd like to do that in a moment. In any case, let us establish that, although it may be regulated by law, you are obviously not yet there as far as implementation is concerned. In my view, the examples and concerns raised by Mrs Westerveld are precisely about implementation practice, for example in family homes. In the conversation with the family homes we also looked at where there is still a way to improve, also in order to create a quality framework for family homes. This includes, among other things, the issue of free access. The same applies, for example, to closed youth care, where free access to a trusted person is so very important. There too, of course, we are working on a plan of action to improve that closed youth care and here too this is a subject of discussion. So I'll check the exact legislative design with you. If that fails before the second deadline, I will at least inform you about it before the vote. But let us at least agree that, where we see that free access is not yet sufficiently guaranteed, we have work to do with each other in the implementation practice. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go to that other question about the confidential person, which is that the obligation for that trusted person to work with an independent legal person has expired. The bill now before us provides that the trusted person is independent of the municipality, the youth support provider, certified institution or Safe Home. That is actually better than the obligation as it existed, namely that the trusted person should be employed by a legal person who is independent of all those bodies. We know that the one legal entity we've appointed with each other is the AKJ. But that could prevent someone from having a person of trust and actually trusting that person, because that is, of course, at the heart of the matter. It is someone who is fully capable of doing so, but you would not be able to ask them, or they would not be able to help that youthful because they are not employed by the AKJ. Then you're actually shorting the client who has a right of access to that trusted person. Now I get the other side of the problem. Apparently, there is a concern at AKJ: what if that is going to take a huge flight, are we still able to keep our organization going? That's, uh, a little short-sightedly, which seems to be the concern. Frankly, I am not so afraid of that, because what your Chamber does do with this, if you agree with this bill, is to say: we have a trust institution and that is the AKJ. It is precisely because of the information position, a concern that Mrs Bergkamp raised in particular, but certainly also because of the guarantee of quality that you should not let that shred completely. We're just creating one organization that's gonna do that for us all over the country. No market forces, I say in the direction of Mr Hijink, but just one organisation that does that beautiful, important work for us. That's the AKJ, and that's what we're paying for. So with that they already have a huge advantage on any other person who would raise his finger and say "I will do so." This is without prejudice to the fact that, as a client, a young person would say, "I want it as a person of trust because I really trust it', then the mere fact that the person is not employed by the AKJ should not be the reason why he cannot be regarded as a person of trust. That is the reason for this design. I have actually answered the question about the provision of information, so that brings me to the end of my trust work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u50	As the Minister explains now, I can quite agree that sometimes you have to make an exception because a young person, or someone else, simply trusts a trusted person and wants to work with that person. At the same time, there are, of course, more disadvantages that I mentioned, for example, that there is legal inequality, but also because now national monitoring may disappear when confidence work becomes much more fragmented than it is now. Would the Minister care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u51	If you have heard that expectation from the AKJ, I simply do not share that expectation. If there were any legal inequality, you could say that from other providers who might also be able to shape it. Because the AKJ has a legal status, the AKJ gets what is it 7.7 million I believe paid to do this beautiful work and other providers do not, because they do not have that legal status and not that guaranteed income. So yes, you could indeed argue from a legal point of view: "yes but also other providers," but with this bill we prefer to avoid shredding it by designating one provider as the provider for doing that trust work. Is it possible that it's gonna shred very badly? No, because of that legal position, I honestly don't think so. The other side is also true. For that reason, should you deny a young person who can also use another trusted person? No, I'm not okay with that. So I think there's really a nice balance here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u52	The most important point, of course, was that confidential persons should always be independent. There is also a concern of the AKJ which I would like to present to the Minister. Could it be that if we delete that whole article of the law, then institutions themselves will put forward trusted persons who may not be independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u53	It shouldn't be. As far as independence is concerned, the AKJ certainly had a point. Later on, we added by letter of amendment that the trusted person should be truly independent. So that's legally secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u54	I understand that the Minister is at the end of his life as confidants and youth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u56	I was surprised that the number of youth aid questions has only increased, while the number of people in trust has remained the same. I had asked how the Minister sees this and whether there might still be a shortage of information and awareness of this possibility for a whole lot of families and young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u57	The latter could be. Whether that is related to the increase in the number of confidential persons, I honestly dare not say. I believe that there has been a slight increase in the demand for trusted persons. I know, at least, that we have increased the subsidy slightly, but that could have been an indexing. It is important to continue to emphasise the importance of access to the AKJ. I also said in the direction of Mrs Westerveld: it is true that there are sometimes concerns about closed youth care and about access to trust there. It is true that there is also concern and existed about, for example, the family homes. In practice, therefore, we need to look at whether access to the trust work is actually guaranteed. Apart from that, I share that concern with Mrs Tielen. The increase in the number of youth aid providers is also linked to the chosen purchasing structures, I say in the direction of Mr Hijink with a reference to our previous debate. In particular "open house"-like purchasing structures make the bar to get in and to join sometimes very low. They also make the possibility of making real demands on new suppliers very small, because if they are too selective and too discriminatory, then that is questionable for a judge. The research we are doing now is related to the increase in the number of young people involved in youth care. Then it's a volume check. We would also do a benchmark at about thirty municipalities. Those investigations are currently under way. I hope that they will give us some answer to the question: what exactly has this development been? I remember a conversation in the north of the country where municipalities said they lost a lot more money to youth care, and the standard youth care providers said: well, it doesn't end up with us, so who does? So you would suspect that the conclusion should be that it ends up with a lot of smaller providers, all of whom have a limited number of clients. Whether they are all aware of the existence of the AKJ and whether all of them point out that to their clients, I certainly do not dare to put my hand in the fire for that. So we certainly need to keep a close eye on the practical situations and, wherever we can, we need to strengthen the positioning of the independent confidants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u58	With the Minister, I am very curious about those research results. His last remark is very clear. Then how are we gonna make sure? Because in practice I find a lot of people who have no idea where they can go with these kinds of questions. I believe that it is the trusted ones who are the solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u59	Then let's do it differently. Let me talk not only with the AKJ but also with municipalities about the question: how can we further strengthen and further increase the awareness of and access to the trust work, even in the future? I would like to come back to that in one of the progress reports on Youth Care, I say in the direction of Mrs Tielen. Mr. Chairman. Then to the Listening Line, the listening ear. I share the view that it is an incredibly beautiful organisation and that a lot of beautiful work is being done at the Listening Line, including with so many people who are committed to it. In 2017, for example, 450,000 calls were received. That's really very impressive, especially when you see how meaningful that has been. I can only see that the answer to the question put by Mrs Tielen is not in the pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u60	If you want to make a gesture to an official, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u61	I just did. I've looked admonishingly, and I think that's well understood. So I'll come back to that in the second term. Then it's about the extent to which abuse can be reduced and so on. The fame is pretty good, I think honestly, especially when you look at the number of calls. I also think that Sensor's name change helps in Listening Line. Sensor was always a bit mystically: what was that? At that time, there was actually quite a lot of calls. But the name change is definitely gonna help. We are going to embed that completely in the approach of loneliness. You can see that they also play a wonderful role in this. I have the impression that it's coming right or coming up with the Listening Line. On the question of abuse, I will come back in second term. Then the Child's Phone. That is what this question was about, so I shall come back to that. I have not heard any additional questions. Then I have one more varia point. That is a point that came not so much from the Chamber, but from ourselves. During the preparation of this plenary session, a minor legislative error was discovered in the legislative proposal. The bill wrongly assumes that Article 2.5 of the Youth Act currently has several article members. We cannot, of course, allow that to happen, so we must correct that with a letter of amendment. If we did not do so, we would run the risk that the legislative banks will not properly process the substantive amendment of Article 2.5 which we are aiming at with this bill. That would be terrible, of course. So I'm going to correct that omission before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u62	So we receive a letter of amendment from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u63	An ini-mini letter of amendment, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u64	Just before the other paperwork: do you think the amendment is deceiving you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u65	I do not recommend this, but I have promised Mrs Westerveld that, in the suspension between the second term of the Chamber and the second term of the Cabinet, I will come back to the legislative point, namely: is the current wording in the AMvB really adequate in the light of what Mrs Westerveld and myself are aiming at? Or should it indeed be advisable to amend it with an amendment? I'll come back to that in precision. But for the time being I would think: the current design in the AMvBs is actually broader than the amendment, so I would advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u66	I saw the Minister closing his folder, and I thought, "This is the moment when I can still remind him of a suggestion I made. That was a suggestion to possibly increase the confidence in the UWV. The suggestion was to consider whether there are any bottlenecks around the interpretation facilities. Fortunately, the economy is running well, so that more people with auditory limitations follow a study or follow a follow-up study. They are more often employed and therefore participate more often in the labour market. More often than in the past also as a zzp'er. But that also means that it may not always work with the rules that we have so far established around the interpretation facilities. So my question was: let some parties now take stock of whether there are any bottlenecks, and if so, whether they can be solved. All with the great aim of increasing the participation of the people we are talking about here, and those sitting there in the gallery, in society, in the labour market and in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u67	My view is that these bottlenecks are self-evident, because, of course, we are talking very intensively with all the interest groups. The UWV has also set up a sounding board for this. It is precisely because of the centralisation of interpretation that this also means that at that time a fairly complete picture will be created of the bottlenecks encountered. I think what you're asking is what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u68	I should hope so, but I didn't make that up from the pieces. I believe that the sounding board group sees a number of other issues, particularly on the administrative side of these changes, as centralization. Would the Minister say: if there are real problems, I will say again if necessary that the sounding board group can also look at them? Is he prepared to do so, and I think we should do so together with the colleague from Social Affairs and Employment, in order to see if we can also eliminate these bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u69	When I hear you now, you mean something else or something more than the implementation of the current regime. Do you also mean to ask whether the laws in which that legal law was designed are sufficient? Is that what you mean? Because then your question will indeed be broader than what I have just explained to Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u70	That's the last of it. I just indicated that there is more and more involvement, because the labour market attracts and we now also have a Participation Act, which means that more and more employers, fortunately, also look at people they have overlooked in the past when they looked at how they could fill vacancies. But there is sometimes a greater need for interpretation support, and I think that might well be reflected in that inventory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u71	Let me say that there is no definition of what this sounding board group should or should not have an opinion on. There is no such definition, so it could well be that this type of problem arises there too. That's one. The second is that in the report I think it is significant that we are making this bill on the basis of which it was also stated that it is best to achieve improvements in the context of the current legal design. Access is still shaped in four laws. This legislative proposal does not change anything, only one point of contact is made in the implementation practice. But that report also says, and I said in my response, that I would like to look at it, indeed together with my fellow Members, that it would be possible for the future to achieve harmonisation, including those legal regulations. That's what I'm looking into, along with my colleagues. We've got those two things. We keep thinking and we're not done after today; we know that. So we need to see whether further harmonisation of laws and regulations could actually lead to an improvement for the people who depend on an interpretation facility. That's one. And two is: that sounding board group as it currently exists is not held to limitations on our part in which they may or may not have an opinion. They can have an opinion on anything. So I think I will meet Mr Kerstens fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u72	This was the first term of the cabinet, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u73	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u74	Then I'll think about the lunch break, because we also need to have lunch. I propose that we now do the second term of the Chamber and then perhaps suspend it for lunch, because the Minister would also like something, I think. And he's got some things to look up and waterboard an official, I think. Let's do the second term of office. Mrs Westerveld has something to say. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mr. Chairman. I would appreciate it if we could also do the second term of the Chamber after lunch, because after the Minister's answers I am also thinking about possible motions or any amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-5.u76	Okay. Then let's do lunch now. Let's have lunch now.
