ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the own-initiative proposal 34558, the Proposal for a Act of Members Koopmans and Van Helvert laying down rules for the deployment of armed private maritime guards on board Dutch merchant ships, i.e. the Act for the Protection of Merchant Shipping.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u2	Mr. Koopmans, Mr. Van Helvert, which of you can I give the floor first? Mr Koopmans, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u3	Madam President, thank you very much. It's been about 25 years since you taught me how to make a legal plea in Leiden. Of course, it's a great privilege and a great pleasure to be here. It's twice as much for you if something good comes out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u4	Even if it goes wrong, I'm sure. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u5	Then it's all your fault, Mr. Chairman. Apart from the fact that I am pleased that we are seeing each other again in this way, I am also very pleased that my predecessor as foreign spokesperson of the VVD Group, Mr Han ten Broeke, can appear in the public gallery at any time. He initiated this bill, along with Secretary of State Knops, who is not coming. I say that through you, Mr. Chairman, to the minister sitting next to me. He has put this bill in the hands of my good colleague Mr Van Helvert. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Boon, Mr Serphos and Mr Wiegmans, who have worked very hard on this bill, including the reply. Mr President, on a point of order. We are, of course, in the old Chamber of the States of Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u6	And West Friesland. Always add it to the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that not much has changed since 25 years ago. One of the largest members was of course Hugo de Groot. His name has already been mentioned. What has not yet been mentioned is that in 1604 he was commissioned to write the work De iure praedae, about the rightful spoilt, about the way in which the government under conditions could give private navigators the right to use force at sea. And yes, it has been mentioned: the book that came from it is Mare liberum, about the international law of the sea. It was the legal basis for the Dutch merchant navy and thus also for a large part of our prosperity. The rich decoration of this room bears witness to that. The same shipping is now threatened by piracy. That's what we're talking about today. With your permission, President, I will address the questions that have been asked about the need for this bill, about the monopoly of violence and the relationship with the De Wijkerslooth report and about the principle of 'VPD, unless'. I will deal with the deployment and size of the VPDs, the cost of private security, the right to self-defense and the question whether this is sufficient. I will address questions about the relationship between the captain and the team leader, about the reporting obligations of that captain and team leader and, finally, about evidence gathering and the place in the potential conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u8	We'll be done by noon, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u9	I've already had most of it, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert will discuss the operation of the right to self-defense, the use of bodycams, the use of force, supervision and justice in other countries and the AMvB and any other subjects. Many have asked questions about the need for this bill. I would like to say that piracy is increasing again. The 2018 figures show that 201 ships have been victims, compared to 180 in the previous year. 143 ships have been boarded. There's been 18 shellings. 241 times there has been violence against crew members and there have been 141 hostages and 83 kidnappings. This also affects Dutch ships. It has already been recalled by Mr Dercksen: last year a ship with our flag was attacked in Nigeria and eleven people were kidnapped. It was only after a month that they were released. So piracy is increasing and spreading. The danger is not limited to only Somalia and East Africa, but the danger is now also greater off the coast of Nigeria, on the other side of Africa, on Indonesia, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Venezuela and in many other places. Mr Kuiper asked whether this bill is now specifically aimed at Somalia and that neighborhood. No, it's comprehensive as far as it can be. That is why it is very flexible. However, the need for this law has been given, regardless of wave movements in global piracy. Some of us, as the Netherlands, could perhaps be less affected. Mrs Vlietstra spoke about this, for example, because there are anti-piracy missions in a particular area or because other countries do have private security guards and pirates are deterred. It may also be because ships simply no longer fly our flag. In any case, this is a permanent threat to our Dutch ships and primarily our sailors, who are at great risk. But think also of the home front, which lives in fear and worries about the safe return of their father, their mother, their family. Think also of terrorism financed by this piracy and destabilising the local environment. Of course, think also of the damage to free shipping, to our trading fleet, to its position in the world economy and to our country's central position in maritime transport so far. Questions have been asked about Mr Kuiper's reflagging, but also by Mrs Vlietstra and others. Due to these dangers, many ships have been flagged. We know that at least 30 ships have been flagged out in five recent years, but we will never know which new ships have never been flying a Dutch flag because this law does not yet exist. Mr Ruers has asked how the economic damage can be estimated and where we get the figures. Of course, the first is the human damage to the passengers and the home front, but it is also about the economic damage. The World Bank calculated in 2013 that in that period the world economy lost 18 million euros annually due to piracy. What the precise damage is for the Dutch merchant, we cannot know. It is not possible to estimate what assignments might have been given if this law, which is good protection, had already been in place. It is also too easy to say that shipowners have to go around or leave an assignment. It is often not a single assignment, but a whole series of assignments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u10	Mr Koopmans just spoke about 40 ships being flagged. Can he indicate its relevance in this debate? Is there a causal relationship between the current legislation and the flagging? In what way can he further back that up? I have also mentioned some other factors in my contribution that play a role in this. I would like to explain this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u11	I'd love to. For the record, I said at least 30 ships, so a little less than Mrs Strik mentioned. The basis of that information is the KVNR, the association of shipowners. This covers the period 2011-2016. In 2016, Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Knops started drafting this bill, but that is after the government found that there was insufficient security in 2015 and that something had to be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u12	That wasn't exactly my question. Mr. Koopmans does not mention these figures for nothing in the context of defending this bill. My question was: to what extent can Mr Koopmans support, or what can he support, I assume that his assumption is that this flagging is the result of the current legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u13	The KVNR has based these figures on voluntary declarations by shipowners on ships that they have flagged and on the reasons they have given. But those declarations were entirely voluntary. That happened with mention that there was piracy and that this was a reason to seek another flag. Of course there are always a lot of factors, but on the other hand there are probably other cases that have not been reported. But we don't have those figures, because this doesn't have to be given up by everyone. There's no obligation whatsoever. This is, of course, a whole set of reasons. But I would like to reiterate that this is a dynamic market. Of course, we can never know how many ships that are now on the market have not applied for the Dutch flag at all, but because of the lack of this legislation went elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u14	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u15	All these different factors, numbers or unknown figures indicate that it is very difficult to establish a direct causal relationship. That's so hard because there are so many factors. I think it is good to note that here, so that we do not take this kind of assumptions too quickly. Moreover, if this legislation is adopted, it does not mean that it will stop flagging. But maybe we'll come back to that later. After all, we are still dealing with legislation from other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u16	I have one supplementary question. Hasn't there been any reason in recent years to do some more thorough research, either by the applicants or by the Royal Society of Dutch Shippers? The preparation of this bill has been going on for a number of years. So there has been an opportunity to do some more serious research on this, so that we wouldn't talk about supposed assumptions now, but we could talk a little more on the basis of hard data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u17	I should like to start by replying to Mrs Strik's question, but this question by Mrs Vlietstra overlaps with her question. Let me try to do it in one go. Firstly, this bill is not based on the mere fact that ships have been reflagged. We know that it has happened and at least 30 ships have, therefore, done so explicitly during this period because of the lack of this legislation. But of course that's not the reason. The reason I mentioned here is primarily that insecurity. We are therefore abandoning Dutch ships without adequate protection. That means that people were kidnapped because they weren't protected; we just called it. That's extremely serious, isn't it? That means there was a home front that just didn't know if people were coming home. That is extremely serious and that is what this is about. And then this also has consequences for the flag that ships have, and so it also has economic consequences and consequences for Dutch shipping. But it is primarily about the danger to the people we have there, and the fact that there is now no legislation that gives those people the security they are entitled to. That's the point. Mrs Vlietstra asks: why didn't you take a more serious look at that? I'd really like to reject that. My predecessors have looked very seriously at this for a very long time. The current government and the previous government have also looked into it. They have all said: there are horrible figures, bad things are happening and we need to introduce that security. Now I'm going to mention those 30 ships over that period. We also have a lot of figures on all the incidents that have occurred. We have done a great deal of research into all the legislation in all the countries, at least the gentlemen I have mentioned have done so. These are countries which do have this legislation and which are now able to provide that security. So I really want to reject the fact that we did not take this seriously. We've just looked at it, and that's why it's so painful that we're just talking about it now. Mr. Chairman. If I may, I would like to comment briefly on that. In 2017, the maritime cluster provided jobs to 260,000 people. That is almost 3% of the Dutch workforce. The added value to our GNP amounts to more than EUR 18 billion, plus another 5 billion in indirect contributions. So there is also an economic argument. But again, it's primarily about safety. Therefore, this bill is also supported by both the shipowners, the KVNR, and the Association of Captains as well as by the Nautilus trade union and the Association Maritime Family Contact of the Home Front. It is therefore supported by all those sectors and by all those stakeholders. Security is not here now, despite the existence of the Vessel Protection Detachments that come from the Ministry of Defence. Mr Backer quite rightly mentioned the three complications in the employability of these VPDs. He rightly states that such a unit of eleven does not fit small ships and that the supply is often not congruent with demand. Those ships often have maximum occupancy and it just doesn't fit in. He is also right to say that the speed of availability is a problem. This is due, among other things, to the travel time and the necessary diplomatic permission for Defence personnel, because that's what it is. So that's different if you have a private person, because they can arrange it in advance. Thirdly, Mr Backer rightly says that the costs of a VPD can be prohibitively high, precisely in view of the obstacles he himself mentioned. It is also true, as Mr Backer rightly said, that all other European seafaring nations now have legislation in this area. The Netherlands is failing internationally: it is lagging behind. 400 years after Hugo de Groot, can it not be that we, as the only European seafaring country, are unable or unwilling to provide our sailors with the necessary protection? Providing that security is the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u18	Mr Koopmans mentions all kinds of shortcomings in the current system of the VPD. There is a lack of flexibility, there is the large capacity to be hired et cetera et cetera. Have the initiators also considered the possibility of increasing availability and flexibility in order to promote safety in this way, in view of the need for a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u19	Sure. I see that Mr Ten Broeke has now come in. Together with Mr Knops and his successor, Mr Van Helvert, he has tried for a long time to increase the flexibility of the VPD. Couldn't that group of 11 men be a little smaller? Couldn't that be more flexible? There has been a great deal of consultation with the Ministry of Defence. I understand that previous ministers have also looked very seriously at this, but that there is a clear concept that is not being discussed. I will come back to this later, but I would like to say that Mr Van Helvert and I have just spoken to the Minister of Defence. In addition to its support for this bill, it has promised to continue to assess this and to continue to consider whether it could ultimately be more flexible. She is therefore very pleased with the evaluation clause that we have, which states that in three years' time we will be looking at the lessons we have learned. That is therefore Dutch experience and we can then consider whether we can have a more flexible concept. So that's definitely what we've been looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u20	Thank you. I will also ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u21	Mr Koopmans made three points: cost, pace and availability. But he did it in a slightly different setting than I asked them to. I have done that analysis with the underlying question of whether these are immutable quantities. You say that you have spoken with the Minister of Defence about the points of composition and the pace and costs. If they are variable quantities, then perhaps the discrepancy and the inconsistency I find are to be eliminated. And then the necessity becomes less. So would you like to go into that more specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u22	Sure, I'd love to. First, let me anticipate the composition of that VPD. Why is that 11 guys? I think that will also provide a better answer to Mr Backer's questions. I understand that a VPD is a kind of independent concept, in which everyone in that military detachment should finally be able to perform all the tasks together. So one does all the observations within that VPD and all communication must exist within that VPD. There must always be a doctor, a completely separate medical professional, within that team. Because of the whole concept of the VPD actually having to exist autarkically, as a unit through a military definition, it has not been discussed so far. But we have asked whether this can be assessed. The Minister has said what I have just indicated. But then I get to those three points, starting with the speed. If the evaluation is completed in three years, hopefully if this is implemented, and it appears that the VPDs can be smaller, more flexible and more compact, then there would be more room for this. But then, of course, there is still the need for this bill. 'Cause that assumes a VPD, unless. So the bill isn't a plea for private security, the bill is a plea for the VPD. And if you can't do it, then private security. We would like the VPD to be much more flexible. Because our concerns relate primarily to safety, which cannot now be offered with the VPD what is now in place. As far as speed is concerned: if it can be reduced, it may be possible on more ships. That's one of the points. Whether it can be done faster is even more difficult, because the speed is also dependent, not on the number of people, but on the diplomatic clearances to be given by the recipient countries. Because you have to fly from the Netherlands to say Sri Lanka. We need to approve that, and we need to take weapons with us. That's not gonna happen. The third point is costs. If it can be reduced, then maybe those costs can be reduced. So you'd have more room for VPDs. But that does not mean that the bill is not necessary, because there will always be possible cases where a ship is too small, because there is too much haste or because the costs for some reason are too high. Then you still have to be able to offer that security. That is why all European countries actually do that. That's why it would be good if we did it. My final point concerns the De Roon motion mentioned by Mr Dercksen. When the motion was put to the vote, this bill was already under development. But I think it is very good that Mr De Roon has drawn attention to this. I thank Mr Dercksen for that. Then I come to the issue of the monopoly of violence and the relationship with the report of the De Wijkerslooth Committee. Mrs Lokin-Sassen, Mrs Strik and Mr Backer have asked questions about this. This bill does not break through the violence monopoly. As the De Wijkerslooth Committee, following the example of many legal scholars, wrote, this concept implies that the government determines under which conditions a person is entitled to use force. The monopoly of violence does not therefore mean that under all circumstances only the government can do anything. The government also has a duty to ensure safety. Where it cannot be fully complied with, where there is insecurity in practice, this can be permitted on the basis of rules laid down by the government. These must therefore also be careful rules, and careful checks must also be carried out. That is precisely what the bill is trying to provide for. The cabinet itself found that it was unable to comply with its duty of care for all categories of transport by Dutch ships. According to the De Wijkerslooth Committee, armed self-protection can be allowed if there is a duty of care of the government which cannot be sufficiently complied with. This was a quote. That is clearly the case. In addition, the committee wrote in 2011 to attach great importance to the developments that were going on in the neighbouring countries. In this context, I would like to inform you that all seafaring European nations are now allowing such private security, sometimes under very strict conditions as we propose, sometimes much more flexible. But that development has taken place since the report of the De Wijkerslooth committee, which said at that time: this must be possible if necessary. Thus, this legislative proposal is also an elaboration of an option given by Mr De Wijkerslooth: the controlled and very careful hiring of private security officers under clear conditions laid down by the government. That brings me to the principle of VPD unless, of which many Members have also asked questions. I'll shorten it, because I've just said it. The starting point is: in principle military of Defense. Only if they are not available, if they really cannot come, or if the circumstances, which we clearly specify, are so unreasonable that we cannot ask them, can there be private security guards and only if they meet very strict criteria, which can then also be tested very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u23	At the risk of Mr Koopmans pointing me right at once, in the sense that I could have read that in the documents: is it really a mandatory order in the design he mentions? No private security hire is possible except after the request has been made and it cannot be adequately filled in. Is that indeed how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u24	That's exactly what it is. I think it is an important point. I would like to underline this. There are a number of steps. I won't go through them all. The basis is that providers all have to be certified. This is done on the basis of criteria that will be very careful and very testable. Certified, accredited: you know the terms. That's separate from every application. That means no one's traveling yet. Only if a shipowner has an assignment, provides for a transport, can he make a request to the Minister for that specific transport and ask: can I get security for my transport? That question is always: can I have security guards from DOD, can I have a VPD? Sometimes it's obvious it can't be, because they don't fit the ship, but that's the mechanism. If the minister says it can't be done, the minister will test if it meets the criteria. Then it's about the costs, the detour, the security criteria. Only then will there be a possibility for the Minister to say: in this particular case, you may hire people from these already approved security guards for that particular route. I hope that I have answered enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u25	I would like to ask the initiator whether he has already answered the question of costs, or whether he will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u26	No. You will. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u27	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u28	It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u29	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u30	I'd like to do it now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u31	I'll wait for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u32	It is strongly linked to the commitment, size and flexibility of these VPDs. I've already discussed, I thought, how a VPD can be more flexible because it's not an autarctic unit. In addition, it is of course also important to mention that there are companies that offer these services that have a lot of experience. There is a company in the Netherlands. There's a company in Britain that's certified and does a lot of these things. These are people with experience who can be flexible on that basis. Again, they don't get their turn until the state really can't. I come to the point of cost. How much does it cost? How much does private security cost? I would remind you of questions from Mrs Vlietstra, Mr Kuiper and Mr Ruers. The cost of private security depends on many factors, such as the size of the ship, the duration of the voyage, the risk profile and also where it takes place. What is travel time, for example? It is very important that it depends on the measures required by the insurer. That is why it is unfortunately not possible to give the desired clear and clear picture of the costs, simply because there are so many different factors. But, of course, we've done a lot of work on this. The KVNR, the shipowners' association, also confirms this. While the costs of a VPD, i.e. military security, are clear and clear, partly because of the substantial subsidy from the Ministry of Defence, which says "we finance it to a certain level," there are a lot of variables in hiring private security. The shipowners do indicate that a VPD can often be as expensive as a private team on large ships. This is why it is expected that the introduction of this bill will also allow larger ships and specialist transports to continue to opt for a VPD. So that's also being subsidised by the Defense Department, let me remind you again - because we'd rather have a VPD do this than private security if we can. But those costs actually depend heavily on you. They depend on the quality requirements that the Netherlands is going to set. As we see it in front of us, these are very high quality standards. This will increase the costs for those private security guards than may be the case in other places. For this, I refer to the discussion that will be held on the AMvB when it is pending. Mr. Chairman. I see that Mrs Vlietstra is coming to the interrupting microphone, but I would like to finish this point. It is obvious that this will be the largest private security companies with the most experience. I already mentioned a Dutch company and a British company. I won't mention any names, but I can do that if you want me to. Those companies are likely to be more expensive than a security company somewhere far away, where the standards are lower. But we are concerned with securing Dutch shipping and we are therefore relying on Dutch quality standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u33	I am not concerned with the average 40 ships that are now protected annually by a VPD. You have already stated in the written reply that these are often very special transports and that they are expected to remain around the number, because they are complex transports and the costs are likely to play a less significant role. But I can imagine that with all the knowledge that exists in other countries, you have looked at a number of scenarios. What is the cost of the security of a ship of a certain size with a certain transport in the neighbouring countries and what would that cost in the Dutch situation? I'd really like to be able to make an assessment. How does that relate to that 20%? Will the situation not be that private security is always cheaper than a VPD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u34	I can very well imagine that Mrs Vlietstra would like to know. I can also tell her that I would like to know at least as much, because I would have a very simple story here for you. But I also understand why that simple answer is unfortunately not available, despite the years of efforts by the proposers and the good support. Firstly, this depends on many different factors. I just mentioned them, too. It is not easy to do that, even after six years, or in this case I will not exaggerate, after four years. Another point is that, of course, we will not allow this in the Netherlands. That's why we have this bill. This means that we would request business-sensitive information from private parties who are not Dutch. We did, but I can also imagine that they wouldn't want to give it so easily. So this is simply very complicated information that is not available to us. But we would have been very happy to. I would like to add one more important thing. Mrs Vlietstra mentioned that 20%. I assume she recalls the mention that was ever made at the very beginning of this journey, that that might be a limit, saying: okay, if the cost of a VPD were so much higher than what you could get elsewhere, then perhaps it should be allowed. But that 20% isn't there. The Council of State once said that it is not wise to include this in the law, because it is so dependent on the circumstances of the case that it is much better left to the Minister, to the lower legislation, the AMvB, to establish this, also because there are many different situations. Perhaps it is quite different in the region around Venezuela than in the region around Somalia. So those criteria are not in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u35	That's right. I have also read that you think it is wise not to include that in it but to leave it to the Minister. In his written reply, the Minister indicated that he intends to include that 20% in the AMvB. That is precisely why I call that 20%, because I assume that the Minister did not say that for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u36	I fully understand that and I fully understand Mrs Vlietstra's question. We are all curious how that will work in the end. However, I think we all recognise that the problems of piracy exist and are very flexible throughout the world. The use of security guards must therefore also depend very much on which ship there is and what the circumstances are. There are so many different factors that the authors of this bill did not want to pretend that they could already foresee it. We would very much like to submit some more secret market data, but unfortunately that is not possible. I have a bit of an understanding for that. Then I come to Mr Schouwenaar's question as to whether the right to self-defense is simply sufficient. Now, of course, anyone who commits violence, and I quote from the law, 'which is provided by the necessary defence of one's own body, honorability or good against immediately unlawful sexual assault', is not punishable. That's the right to self-defense. But this law is trying to go a little further. The crew of a merchant ship that violently resists a pirate attack can rely on that storm. This means that they may not be punishable, even if they are using a weapon that should not have been on board. But it is not enough to use that profession. We are talking here about the anticipating effect, the anticipating defence against potential violence. So not the moment that burglar comes into your house. You're going to sail in an area where you know there's a risk. We want this to happen, and I hear that in the Chamber too. We want all the conditions and conditions arranged and discussed in advance as much as possible. That's why we're talking about certification, about quality standards, about that regulation, about the agreements between captain and team leader, all that sort of thing. That is why we are going a little further than just the right to self-defense, although it is always essential for the safety of people. I hope I have answered that. I'd like to hear it if I have to explain it further. I'm pretty good at the end. I come to the relationship between the captain and the team leader and the decision-making power. Mrs Lokin-Sassen and Mrs Strik, among others, have asked questions about this. Is it true that the team leader ultimately has the decision-making power? The answer to that is absolutely no. The captain has the transcendent decision-making power. There's only one captain on the ship. That should always be clear. By the way, the relationship between the captain and the team leader, as this bill is trying to lay down, is exactly the same as the relationship that already exists between the captain and the leader of the VPD. It's an exact copy. We are not trying to change that in any way. Probably a plethora: primary responsibility for the use of violence lies with the team leader of the security team. The team leader is in command, not the captain. But the captain always keeps that transcendent decision-making power, the overriding authority, as stated in the SOLAS Convention. That means that if the captain and the team leader disagree, the captain always has the last word. So basically, after consulting the captain, the team leader has the right to decide; after consulting the captain. For the sake of clarity, if such consultation is not possible, in an extreme situation, the team leader may act directly. That's why he came aboard. But the captain remains the boss. If he does not want the security team to take action, or if he thinks, for example, that there is excessive violence at the time when the action is already taking place, then the captain can say so and the team leader will have to accept it, because there is always only one captain on the ship. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the reporting obligations. Among other things, Mrs Lokin-Sassen asked for that. It is true that there are quite a lot of reporting obligations. This is necessary to monitor. The precise obligations are set out in Article 12 of the bill. The captain and the team leader each make a report after each transport and send it to the minister. In those reports, they shall indicate whether violence has been used. If that is the case, they also send images and sound material. In addition, there is a reporting obligation for the master, because at the time of use of force at least, as soon as possible thereafter, the master must report the use of force to the Public Prosecutor's Office. So at that moment we are still sailing in pirate territory. Those images and sound recordings will also be included. By the way, we, the initiators, did not come up with that on our own. A similar reporting obligation already applies to all offences committed on board a ship. That is stated in Article 439h of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Let me say a few words about the recordings of images and sounds. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether this would not be a mandatory contribution to his own conviction. The answer to that is "no." This is a targeted application of the usual observation. The use of images and sound recordings also takes place in other professions where violence can be used. I am thinking of F-16 pilots, who are also always recording images and sounds, and of some police officers, who, in certain circumstances, are recording them. Under Article 11 (5) of the bill, there will be an AMvB at least, if you vote in favour, which further elaborates the rules for the use of those cameras and the meaning of that material.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u37	Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u38	Sorry, I was just crossing the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u39	Oh, okay, you're just gonna walk by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u40	I think this is the right time to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Van Helvert, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u41	I will not allow you to do that, because the President will give the floor to someone else. So you can't pass it on; that's what I'm doing. I suspected you'd make that mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u42	You know me too well, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u43	You may stand still, because Mrs Strik has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u44	Mr. Koopmans states that it must all be done carefully and that there must be safeguards for proportionate violence and that sort of thing. I wonder why the initiators have chosen to have so much taken care of at AMvB, especially crucial things such as proportionality. Article 8 indicates that the designated means of violence and the storage of such designated means of violence are also determined in the AMvB. Why not in the law, as has happened in other countries? Especially since it is an initiative proposal, Mr Koopmans could have put it better in the law if he wanted to guarantee quality. Now we just have to wait and see what it's gonna look like. It also makes it difficult for us to test it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u45	I share Mrs. Strik's concern, but perhaps not her analysis. If violence is used in extreme necessity, we all want it to be done in an extremely responsible and proportionate way and only by people we can trust. There must also be a very good method of checking and, if it turns out to be wrong, there must be very severe penalties. All those things I mentioned are listed in this bill. Only, when it comes to which weapons may be used, is it true that in Belgium, if I am right, people have specifically said that this weapon is and that weapon is not. But that is a problem for Belgium. If pirates are going to use new weapons and suddenly start flying drones, then maybe you should have weapons that aren't in the law yet. So you must have the flexibility that legislation cannot provide. It just takes a lot of time. That's what I'm experiencing in person right now. So you have to have flexibility. When it comes to the certification of people, we say: very high standards. I also trust that your Chamber will ensure that this Minister puts those high standards in his AMvB, should he receive that right from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u46	One more. I'm going back to two interruptions at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u47	Very good, Mr. Chairman. With the word "flexibleness," the co-legislator always gets a little suspicious, because he or she is then deprived of the ability to test properly. You also know that there's a front suspension procedure, but what can you actually do with that? We've already said yes. I have the impression that the initiator has invented: I am going to include procedural safeguards in the law, then the material standards are laid down in lower rules. Can I sort of explain the distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u48	No, certainly not, quite the contrary. On the contrary, this bill lays down all material standards very clearly and concisely, so that they can be tested very well. We are talking about very changing situations in places around the world, which we all cannot foresee. Implementation must be flexible, but the criteria must be very clear. That is a very hard material standard. I would like to add two more things. It is not only the AMvB for which there is a pending procedure, it also contains an evaluation clause. If you adopt this bill, there will be a moment of evaluation in three years' time. Then all these aspects, including the effects, implementation and all the moments of scrutiny, will all occur here again. That is precisely to show maximum commitment to your Chamber and to give it maximum overview, at the same time as the modesty that the initiators try to have in the sense that they do not think they can provide everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u49	I've asked about the relationship between authority and command in case there's a captain and a team leader. I think the team leader will give the final order when it comes to the use of force. All you've said is that there's one captain on the ship. I have just heard you, of course, but I would like to ask again whether the captain is ultimately concerned with the moment when violence is being waged. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u50	The captain finally has the decision-making power, so yes. But I would like to give you a full answer, so let me go into this a little more precisely. The command is with the team leader, who is the leader of his team and must say "shoot now" or "get out now." That sort of thing. But he can't take action until he's consulted with the captain. And the captain has that overriding authority, which presides, transcending decision-making power, above the team leader. So that's the affair. Maybe I'm getting too far from the subject, but you might be able to imagine the relationship with a sea doctor, the doctor on the ship. He is, of course, the expert who is competent to perform an operation if necessary. He has that power, but the captain is ultimately in charge. Perhaps there is a situation in which the choice must be made between amputating on the spot or sailing first to the nearest coast. The doctor can then, of course, say what is medically necessary and make that decision. If that doctor says "you have to sail to the coast now," and the captain says "yes, but then there are pirates again," then the captain has the overriding authority. But what the doctor's medical record is is the security aspect of the security guards. They must be able to do what they are good at, but under the authority of the captain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u51	Mr. Kuiper, one more question at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u52	It may, of course, be that we must act very quickly, so that there may not be a situation of consultation, which, as it were, presupposes a certain rest. I know exactly what you're saying. In the end, the captain is the one who will say yes or no in conflicting views about the use of violence. Anyway, there may also be certain situations. The team leader can never engage in violence without consultation with the captain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u53	For the sake of clarity: in the exceptional circumstance that, for example, without anyone knowing, the pirates have suddenly climbed over the railing. Nobody knew. And the team leader turns around. Then he doesn't have to go see the captain first and ask if he can defend himself. In any current situation, it is normal that it should never have taken place. I hope that's an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u55	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. I have to tell you that from the beginning that I was a Member of the States-General, I was actually involved in this issue. When I was allowed to start as a member of the Lower House, I was a spokesperson for shipping. At one of the first committee meetings there it came up very briefly, and then I exclaimed in my ignorance and perhaps intransigence: but it will not be the case that we let our sailors pass the ocean unprotected! Then I was immediately told by a number of colleagues: well, ask your secretary Knops. But I didn't have to do that anymore, because I immediately received a text that I was allowed to report to Mr Knops' office because he wanted to tell me that I had gone to other people's spokesmanship. That was the spokesmanship of himself. But I have followed it very closely from that moment on. Both initiators, Mr Ten Broeke, who is present here in the gallery, but also Mr Knops, who is present in this House in mind, must have known somewhere that they might not have seen the end of this law as an MP, because they did not choose the name of the law for nothing. That's the Marine Protection Act, abbreviated Wtbk. That abbreviation actually stands for the Ten Broeke/Knops Act. And it stays. So even though the names are different, they're still there. Madam President. Also in connection with time, I agree with all the words of thanks that Mr Koopmans has spoken to all those who have helped. You have already encouraged us to respond as quickly as possible but as well as possible. I shall therefore go straight to the answer to the questions. Mrs Vlietstra of the Labour Party expressed the fear of her group that in practice most transports would be privately secured in the future. She asked if the initiators share that concern. This concern is not entirely shared by the initiators or actually at all, because this is the VPD-unless principle. That is also the very starting point of the law. This is also laid down in Article 4. The Minister for Justice and Security must therefore authorise each individual transport. Such authorisation may be granted only if the transport is eligible for military protection but cannot be provided or cannot be provided within a reasonable period of time, if this would require an adjustment of the intended navigation route of more than a number of nautical miles to be determined by the general management measure or if this would result in an additional cost to be determined by the AMvB compared to private security. However, it is up to the government to adopt this general administrative measure. With this bill, we are also instructing the government, the Minister, to comply with the "VPD unless" principle when determining, for example, the number of nautical miles and the percentage of costs. In addition, this initiative law provides for a pre-requisite. As a result, the involvement of the Second and First Chambers has been secured. An ex-post evaluation will also be carried out. I can perhaps also say to reassure the Labour Party that the VPDs have been operating for many years to the satisfaction of the shipowners who use them. In that sense, there are no complaints about the VPDs when they are in operation. I would like to answer Mr Kuiper's question on quality guarantees, selection and licences for private security companies. Mr Kuiper asked questions about those quality guarantees, the selection and licences of those security companies. The maritime security companies will be subject to clear quality requirements before being eligible for a licence at all. An authorisation may be granted if a certificate is submitted, issued by an accredited certifying body. We have laid that down in Article 13 (1). The general measure of governance shall establish a set of standards and rules to be met by the applicant in order to obtain a certificate. That's what paragraph 2 says. In addition, the general administrative measure may lay down rules on the application, duration, transfer and renewal of an authorisation, as well as on the requirements which may be attached to the authorisation. We also put that in paragraph 6. The Minister may at any time withdraw or suspend the authorisation if the holder of the authorisation does not comply with the requirements of the authorisation. We have clearly described this in Article 14. Mr. Chairman. As initiators, we have a preference, was asked, for Dutch or European security companies. I must tell you that we are not concerned with the origin of a company, but with the quality. It is about how well a company works and how well it complies with the conditions imposed by the Dutch State. That is why we have included in Article 3 (3) of the bill that the foreign permits are similar to the Dutch permits to be issued by the Minister of JenV. Provided that the licence provides a level of assurance at least equivalent to the level pursued by that law, this can therefore be done. The Minister may lay down policy rules on the equivalence of foreign licences. Mr Backer of D66 asked if there was an obligation for shipowners to hire security. Is there an obligation? I can tell you that there is no independent legal obligation to take security aboard the ship. However, there are legal obligations that can be inferred that security is desirable, for example the employer's obligation to provide a safe working environment for his employees. Mr Ruers of the SP also referred to the employment law perspective and the employer's obligations. There are and they are pursued. In fact, these obligations are already a prerequisite for getting a VPD from our own Defense Department and, therefore, to be eligible for possible private security. This obligation is set out in the best management practices of the IMO. Those measures are in there. These are referred to as standard documents at the International Organization for Standardisation. These best management practices contain different layers of preventive measures to discourage pirates from attacking and also to make it more difficult to board. I would just like to mention them, to point out that these employers have a huge obligation, more than any company on the mainland, I think. Then we can think of searchlights, lasers, water cannons, sound cannons, ropes in which the pirates' engines can crash, nets they can crash into, barbed wire, obstacles, ballistic doors. These are all measures that they must take. If all of them haven't worked, then... and so on, and so on. But the obligation to hire people, which Mr Backer asked for, is not there. Several members spoke about the delegation provisions for lower regulation in this bill. Mr Ruers of the SP spoke of a undressed bill, but Mr Schouwenaar said again that it was a boarded-up bill. So your Chamber was not entirely unanimous about its degree. As initiators, we can say that there is a lot in the proposal. In addition, some issues are dealt with by a general measure of governance or ministerial regulation. We have also dealt with this in some detail in the reply. Take the determination of the number of nautical miles or the percentage of higher costs for the shipowner. It is impractical for the legislator to lay down an explicit amount or an explicit number of nautical miles legally. My colleague Koopmans also said that flexibility would then be completely gone. The Minister also has more knowledge and experience to determine this. In addition, it also offers the possibility to adapt it whenever necessary. The same applies to the instruction of violence. It is very important, but too detailed to be laid down in the law. As initiators, we conclude that the delegation provisions are useful, advisable and also common. These are all issues that lend themselves to being worked out in lower regulation without compromising the need for clarity and unforeseenness of the legislative proposal before us. Madam President. Mr Backer asked whether, as initiators, we considered the approach of delegation clauses to be legitimate. For the above reason, the answer is: yes. Mr Backer also called for attention to be paid to the chosen construction with the front. According to Mr Backer, this would be less solid from the point of view of the role of this house as co-legislator than a regulation where the criteria are integrated into the law. However, as has been said, some things do not lend themselves well to being laid down in the law. That may be because they are too detailed or because adjustments cannot be made if the practice so requires. The whole law would then have to be amended, which is very time-consuming. As initiators of the House of Representatives, we consider the involvement of both Chambers to be of great importance. That is precisely why we have specifically opted for this provision for many delegation provisions. The draft of the AMvB is sent to both Chambers of the States-General. Both chambers are therefore informed and involved. The members, including in this house, can therefore carry out the controlling task. We're definitely calling them to that, too. As initiators, we would consider it advisable if the government were to draw up a comprehensive administrative measure, drawing up all the compulsory delegation missions. Thus, both Chambers of the States-General can assess this legal system in all its facets. This is also a result of the opinion of the De Wijkerslooth committee, which clearly leaves the swordpower with the government. So we want to say that it is precisely the State that can always decide this kind of thing and not the parliament. The government is, of course, accountable to these parliaments. After three years, the evaluation is done, and then we can discuss all of this. Mr Backer asked for an international comparison with other seafaring nations within and outside the EU. The Netherlands as the only seafaring nation, European nation as well, has not yet allowed armed private security. This bill is intended to put an end to that all entrance. That is why it is also good that we have comparative evidence to know that something terrible is not going to happen if we do this. In fact, we are restricting the things that are undesirable. They are also not scary states that have allowed this kind of private security, but just neighbouring countries like Austria... What am I saying? Austria has no sea, but a See. I mean Germany, Belgium, Denmark and Norway. We have examined the developments in these countries and we have also taken account of them in the pleading. For example, in response to questions from the Labour Party, we indicated that experience in Norway, Belgium, Germany, France and Denmark with private security is largely positive. At the request of the D66 Group, we also discussed the different forms and legal bases of private security in those same countries and Italy. We also do not have information as initiators about declarations or cases in which the prosecution or inspection had to take place. However, we also look critically at the other countries. For example, with regard to the system in Norway, we have a point of criticism. They use a so-called blacklist of maritime security companies. That sounds very sympathetic and useful, but Norwegian research shows that this approach had little effect, because the shipowners have no obligation to share those experiences, which means that you don't actually get a good blacklist. So we are certainly looking at it critically. Madam President. Those were the questions that I felt were asked to us as initiators. If it isn't, I'm always willing to answer any more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice. I mean, justice and security. I was just thinking, I have to say it right. But it's the same every time. It's just justice. Ready with that. Justice!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u57	Mr President, thank you. Two souls, one thought. I would like to begin, if you will allow me, by congratulating all those who have helped bring this bill to where we are now and will also help. I say: not least, compliments to the officials of my ministry. These initiators and their two predecessors have prepared an important bill for the merchant navy, which allows the protection of merchant ships against piracy. That's just a known international problem. It is mainly the relatively small ships, the spot market, which the captain, so to speak, does not know today where he is going the next day. In recent years, due to all kinds of circumstances, the crews of these ships were often unable or insufficiently able to rely on armed protection of the government against piracy. This bill will change that. The initiators explicitly chose to follow the line of the cabinet position of December 2015 when drafting the bill. I would also like to say straight away to Mr Kuiper that this proposal is partly for this reason that I can count on my support. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber for their questions. I will go into that in a moment, as long as they have not yet been answered. There are several delegation provisions in this bill. So there is still a way to go, once it has been adopted by your Chamber, to work out the law in further regulations and arrangements for implementation. This is about various subjects, such as the violence instruction, the consent procedure and so on. The members' input makes it very clear that there is a need for a detailed discussion of the implementation. I understand that, but I cannot give a clearer picture than the progress made so far with this effect. On a number of points, we are not yet ready to know exactly what the layout and approach will be. In any event, in respect of three delegation provisions, the rules to be laid down by general measure of administration will still be submitted to your Chamber. These are the rules for authorisation per transport, Article 4, the instruction of violence in Article 9 and the recording of images and sounds in the event of a threat of piracy; Article 11. Then the answers to the questions. For the people in the public gallery and at home I should like to say right away, that where I will now regularly talk about VPD, I am talking about Vessel Protection Detachment. That's the use of Marines to protect such a ship. It's been discussed before. Then there's the first question, where that abbreviation comes in immediately. What importance does the government still attach to the VPD unless it makes money the main content of the consent criteria? Some of you asked me that. I have heard Mrs Vlietstra, but also Mr Ruers and Mr Backer. Let it be clear that the government is unabated by the importance of that VPD point of departure. No misunderstanding about that. At the same time, it is not necessarily undesirable from an economic point of view, but it does not encounter any legal objections. The cost criterion is not in vain part of the authorisation criteria. When assessing the law after three years, we will look at how the law has worked out, particularly with regard to those costs. For the purpose of that evaluation, the application and authorisation procedure at the Coast Guard will be monitored for the cost aspect. I'm gonna come up with some more questions about those VPDs. Mrs Vlietstra asked: has the government considered reducing the own contribution of €5,000 per day paid by shipowners for the deployment of such a Vessel Protection Detachment? The government is aware that the cost aspect may play an important role in deploying not a VPD but a maritime security company. That is why I say that the focus of the review of the law in three years' time will really be on how the authorisation procedure works in practice, and in particular on whether and how often the costs prove to be decisive for decisions on request for the protection of transports, particularly in cases where a Vessel Protection Detachment can be deployed in good time and can be placed on the ship. Mrs Vlietstra then asked whether the cost of using a VPD for shipowners has fallen. That's the case. When the first VPDs were deployed, all costs were passed on to the shipowners. Due to the fact that teams with a significantly larger size than eleven soldiers were still deployed at the time, these costs were very high. Later, an amount of €8,000 per day was introduced, which was then reduced to a more market-based amount of €5,000 per day. As mentioned in the review over the years, we also need to look at how this amount relates to further developments. Mrs Vlietstra further asked why Vessel Protection Detachments do not work with floating armouries. Defense does not want the weapons and ammunition packages on ships with a ship-owner-managed weapons and ammunition depot. It has not been possible to conclude agreements with the authorities of the flag under which these floating armories operate, as is the case with governments that make weapons and ammunition depots available on land. Defence is therefore subject to the condition that, if a privately managed depot is made available, management is carried out under the direct supervision of the government. Mrs Vlietstra, but also Mr Backer, Mrs Strik and Mr Ruers came to the point of using smaller VPD units.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u58	The Minister responds very quickly. I have a question about those floating armories. I understand that these floating arms, at least the ISO-certified ones, are under the supervision of the country to which they belong. Could the Minister say a little more about that? 'Cause it's not clear to me anymore. I understand that the Defense Department would only consider raising arms there when those floating armories are under the supervision of the government of the country in question. But maybe I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u59	Maybe I was going a little too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u60	You went too fast for me, but that's probably me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u61	I didn't mean that wrong. Maybe I can lower the number of turns a little bit. It has not been possible to conclude agreements with the authorities of the flag under which these floating armories operate. I said that, but maybe I said that a little too soon. Mrs Vlietstra, Mr Backer, Mrs Strik and Mr Ruers spoke about the possibility of using smaller Vessel Protection Detachments. Let me explain again, on behalf of the Minister of Defence, where the government comes from on this point. Ten years ago, a standard detachment, such a VPD, consisted of 30 soldiers. Over the years, the team size has been reduced to 18 and later to fifteen people. The current number of eleven is the minimum from an operational point of view, based on the deployment concept used. The military deployment concept for the VPDs used by the Commander of the Armed Forces emphasizes the independence of the VPD team. This is to perform 360° observation on its own, 24 hours a day, for a longer period of time, without recourse to the ship's crew, self-employed first-line medical care, own protective equipment and own secure connections with the Netherlands and the military ships in the area. I refer to the previous Chambers. This is really the minimum we're talking about. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have rightly been asked about the AMvBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u62	I would like to ask the Minister just a few moments about the costs, because I think that is a complicated part. We were talking about "VPD, unless." We had the discussion about the size, but we also talked about employability and costs. Now there is more money for Defence, so that discussion is not topical, but we all know that if things get worse, the Department of Finance will come up with a number of savings or revenue increases. One of them, of course, is always the increase in costs and charges. After all, the security is also private. Or, if you want to read it wrong, privatized. Surely I can assume that that is not the next step, or an anticipated consequence? 'Cause then we'll be working on a different trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u63	I have already indicated that in the three-year review we will have to look at how that amount we are talking about now, I have called it "market-compliant" at that time relates to the developments that have then been in the market. It's very difficult to say anything about that now. However, we can see that this amount has fallen substantially over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u64	Do you have any further questions about this, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u65	With all due respect, of course, this is not an answer to my question, and the Minister himself knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u66	I see the minister's smiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u67	No, I'm not smiling. I'm smiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u68	It would be very unwise to laugh kindly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u69	Yes. I can't even do that, Mr. Chairman. And Mr Backer knows that very well. Well, the answer to my question? I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u70	Mr. Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u71	Thank you, Madam President. I just heard the minister tell me how these VPDs went from 30 to... 11 people over the course of the thirties. I've heard the Minister say a few lines before. For all kinds of reasons, the Defense Department insists that there should be 11 of them. The Minister explained these reasons. I understand that, but precisely the safety aspect for the crew seems very relevant to me. This has also been reported by the initiators. From the point of view of safety for the crew, how does the Minister look at the intentions and plans of the private guards, who thus offer protection with four people? Does the Minister think that that is enough and how does he deal with it? It's about real security. According to the Minister, is there sufficient safety for the crew if the private protection consists of four people? I'll relate that to the 11 DOD guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u72	Mr President, I would first like to respond to Mr Backer. I will do that very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u73	Please respond first to Mr Backer and then to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u74	Yeah, I'll work them all out. I certainly did not intend to stay away from an answer to Mr Backer's question. I understand the point and the concern that, if there is not enough money, we might say again: now we are going to do it up nicely. That is why I say that we must take a critical look at what is now a reasonable price, also in the light of the'market development'. And that brings me to Mr Ruers' point: what is the offer of private security at that time? But that has to be addressed in the evaluation. At present, this is at least the relatively low price compared to the one in the past. Well, let's at least be happy about that. I find Mr Ruers' question very difficult. It was also discussed in the House of Representatives. There is a certain discrepancy between what the Vessel Protection Detachments should minimally contain in the defense's opinion, and how private security deploys it. And I also indicated myself that there is some difference in the whole package that is being adopted. I have just outlined that such a VPD also has very clear quality requirements, for example on the 360o observation itself 24/7. In addition, no more tasks are given to the crew or anything like that. Those are the quality requirements of the Defense Department, and that is the minimum that matters at the time. Mr Schouwenaar asked if I could give a hint of the veil...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u75	But Mrs. Vlietstra still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u76	At the same time. I had asked questions about that earlier. You have indicated in your written reply that you are even considering allowing security by three private security guards. You will issue the licence later, and I assume that the number you allow is therefore safe and responsible in your eyes. Then there is a very big difference between finding eleven safe and responsible and finding three to four safe and responsible. And you have not yet been able to explain to me why you consider this safe and responsible in both cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u77	The answer to Mrs Vlietstra's question is that private security companies say that we can do this responsibly with four people. That is not undermined by the fact that Defence says: we have a lower limit of eleven, because this is how we implement it. This still means that a private company can make agreements with the shipowner on the tasks. I would like to mention, for example, the issue of medical care. Of this, a private company can say to the shipowner: you must take care of that yourself; that is not offered in our service. I understand Mrs Vlietstra's point very well. We must be very critical of the quality of the service provided. But in the Lower House the discussion was actually more: why should it be with eleven people if necessary? So that is actually a "reverse approach', if I may call it that, compared to the route chosen here. I understand the approach that Mrs Vlietstra and Mr Ruers choose here in the First Chamber very well. But there are differences in how the service is carried out, not qualitatively, but in what task one takes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u78	And in the size of the ships, I suppose. Mr. Ruers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u79	Following on from what Mrs Vlietstra has just quite rightly asked, I would like to ask the Minister the following. Soon the Minister will grant a permit to an applicant. A ship owner wants to hire a private agency, and that says, "I have four people." But safety is paramount, for the crew, for the ship, for the shipowner and for everyone. Safety is very important. I was wondering how the Minister would do that. How's he gonna judge that? It seems to me a very difficult task for the Minister. How can he judge whether three or four is enough? And what can he say on such an application? "Sorry, guys, it can't be four; it has to be six or eight"? How do you think you're gonna do that? I can see the tension between those two very clearly. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u80	Those implementing AMMs should further discuss the way in which this is to be completed. I want to say this honestly and Mr Ruers is not currently selling tubers for lemons. We will clearly complete the quality requirements in such a way that there is no system of "get two, pay one" of a private company compared to Defence. But once again, and that concludes this discussion, there are two ways in which the discussion can take place. One is, does it have to be with so many people now? That has been said in the House of Representatives. The other one is, is three or four people safe? But in the end, it's "VPD, unless." This means that the "unless'.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Schouwenaar's questions. He asked if I could light up a tip of the veil in the field of violence instruction and the doctrine of storms. I announced this in the letter of 18 January, but I said I would do so in the explanatory statement to the AMvB. It's coming to your room in concept. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this with each other. Mrs Lokin-Sassen asked whether I can confirm that the list of the delegation bases given by the initiators in the reply is correct and complete. Yes, that list is correct. Strictly looking at the legislative proposal, the definition provision also provides a basis for the elaboration of ministerial rules. Article 1 (c) contains a definition of protection measures. It refers to "planning and operational measures of shipowners and masters for the protection against piracy to be designated by ministerial rules'. The idea is that this is a clue to the best management practices that have been developed to protect against piracy near Somalia. Its preparation and updating shall be carried out in cooperation with international shipping associations and the International Maritime Organization shall approve it. Mrs Lokin-Sassen and Mr Backer came up with the issue of violence instruction at AMvB rather than ministerial regulation. In my letter of 8 January, I tried to clarify on page 5 how the concept of 'violence instruction' should be understood. This shall take into account the set of instructions to be drawn up by or under the law on the use of designated means of violence, including firearms. The formula 'under the law', which I used in the heading of the letter, can only be read in the bill in such a way that Article 9 (8) says very clearly that further instructions are drawn up at the level of the AMvB. The means of violence shall also be designated by AMvB, in accordance with the first sentence of Article 8. The level of AMvB is also, in my view, the appropriate level of regulation, because the rules on these issues give substance to the monopoly of violence. Mrs Lokin-Sassen asked if I could mention a deadline for the concept of the AMvB and the draft ministerial arrangement. I expect to have the AMvB ready for internet consultation in September. I would like to see the preparation of the ministerial arrangement run as parallel as possible. Before I can make the proposal for a decision, the provisions of this bill require me to inform both chambers of commerce of the draft. That is what we call a controlled delegation, an additional step at the end of the procedure, after the Council of State's opinion has been agreed and processed. Mr Backer asked if I would agree with the work of the AMvB on what is customary in the international context. Of course, I am inspired by the examples abroad and by what has been achieved in the international gremina with a view to ensuring the quality of the deployment of private security organisations. Mr. Chairman. I had a few loose ends. Mrs Vlietstra, Mr Backer and Mrs Strik had questions about certification and accreditation. In order to qualify for a licence, a security company must provide a certificate. That certificate must have been issued by a certification body designated by the Minister for Justice and Security, which I shall then be responsible for. An important requirement for the designation will be that certification bodies be accredited at European level by a recognised accreditation body. It is important to ensure that the operationalisation of the ISO-28007 standards to the accredited audit and certification scheme ensures that the supervisor can be provided with insight into, inter alia, backgrounds and credentials of the security guards, as well as the management and storage of weapons and ammunition from the security company. That seems to me to be a very important, firm demand. For the time being, the ILT will grant the licence to security companies and monitor compliance with the laws and regulations. Mrs Lokin-Sassen asked which ministry is responsible for what, naturally focusing on this bill. The Minister of Defence is permanently responsible for the protection of merchant ships through the deployment of the VPDs. With regard to the protection of merchant ships through the use of private teams, the proposal for an initiative regulates the powers and responsibilities of the Minister of Justice and Security. This is without prejudice to the continued responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State for maritime transport and maritime safety in the international context and to the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs for contributing internationally to the stability of a country such as Somalia in order to prevent piracy as much as possible. uth uth urt uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth uth Finally, as Minister for Justice and Security, I will coordinate cooperation between these departments. Mr Backer asked if the ILT had inspection tasks with the VPDs. It is therefore clear from the above that this is not the case. That just remains a responsibility of the Defense Department. Mr Ruers asked in a more general sense what the Netherlands is doing to prevent piracy. In cooperation with other countries and international organisations, the Netherlands contributes to various initiatives in this area. In the context of reconstruction, the Netherlands has provided financial support to the strengthening of the federal department in Mogadishu and the parliaments in Somaliland and Puntland, to the formal construction of justice in Somalia and via Free Press Unlimited to free media space. Our country also contributes to EU missions to strengthen the capacities of the Somali authorities, more specifically the security sector. Then it can be mentioned: EUCAP Somalia. This is a mission focusing on maritime capacity building with the Somali authorities and advising on the design and deployment of the Somali Coast Guard. I'm gonna keep going. There is also EU NAVFOR Atalanta. This is a mission aimed at combating piracy and protecting vulnerable shipping, including emergency transports from the World Food Programme and supply ships for the African Union Mission in Somalia. So the Netherlands really does a diverse number of things to combat piracy. There is also piracy in Venezuela, Mrs Lokin-Sassen said. Is it not appropriate to prepare a state law anyway, and at what time can it be done? There are indeed cases of piracy in the Caribbean. Oceans Beyond Piracy recorded 71 incidents in 2017 and 27 in 2018. It is a serious problem for which the proposal for an initiative does not provide a solution, as this is in view of the protection of merchant shipping and therefore excludes coastal waters from being designated as an area where private maritime security organisations can provide armed protection against piracy. In fact, I would like to say that we will come back to this point as part of that evaluation. Finally, Mr Backer, who asked the question, perhaps by mistake, whether this minister was going to table a legislative proposal of his own during this cabinet period. Reading the question, he's a little depressing. Focusing on this subject, I say that this is not a temporary law. Only if there are reasons to prepare a state law will the law lapse. As far as the state law is concerned, this is already being discussed with shipowners and the Caribbean countries. At the time, it was preferred that these countries should amend their legislation when the law comes into force. As I said, in response to Mrs Lokin-Sassen, I think it is just right to look at this evaluation in three years' time. Mr. Chairman. These are the answers to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u81	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the answer and to the initiators. In particular, Mr Koopmans's introduction, the inspired introduction, appealed very much to me. Compliments for that. Maybe I should give them to the chairman, too. It made me happy. Of course, it would have made me even happier if this proposal had landed here in 2011 and not in 2019. Mr. Chairman. We have an economic interest. Unfortunately, we are again the crazy stallion of Europe, the only European seafaring nation that has not arranged this. Well, I've been spokesperson EZ for a while too, so I know a little bit about how things turn out here. Our interests are often sacrificed on the altar of Brussels. Our pulse fishermen can talk about it. I keep wondering about the left-wing parties. In the past, in a gray past, they stood up for our employees. Where are they? I can imagine you have questions about the number of security guards and matters such as responsibilities and liabilities, but in the end it is by this law choose pirates or our people at sea. It seems that some parties here have chosen "own workers last" as an adage. Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope that this bill will be adopted, not for myself, but for all those people who have to do their jobs far from home, long from home. We must finally be able to offer them the security they are entitled to and to which their home front is also entitled. Finally, I'd say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the authors and I thank the Minister for the answers they have given all three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u85	Gentlemen, you're gonna be thankful right now. Let's pay attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u86	Unfortunately, you missed it. Shall I repeat it again? Thank you for the answers. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: I started my first term by saying that the government has a duty to protect its citizens. There is no misunderstanding about this, and so are merchant boaters. I also stressed the importance of Atalanta and Ocean Shield, of investing in making pirate countries more stable, and last but not least, of the possibility of the VPDs. Like the authors, therefore, my group is concerned with the safety and responsibility of the government for this. There is, of course, also a responsibility for the shipowner, but there is certainly also a responsibility for the government. Having said that, we would have liked to have had more insight in this debate into a number of issues which the authors also want to combat with this bill, namely the reflagging, the economic damage that arises, the non-acceptance of transports, etc. Unfortunately, we have not been able to understand this in this debate. We're gonna have to do it with data available on number of incidents. These are, therefore, mainly international data. Mr. Chairman. About the VPDs. There are plenty of VPDs available. The Minister said that again. It even takes 175 per year into account in the budget, as I understand it, while only 40 are deployed. The resources are obviously there, but the VPDs are not sufficiently suited to the demand from the shipowners, because they are too large, too expensive and less employable, and last but not least, because they work with their own concept, which is apparently difficult to distance themselves from. The authors say that they have had a lot of discussions with the Minister of Defence, to see if they can do otherwise and more flexibly, but that they have not succeeded. That is regrettable, but they say that the Minister would like to see if it could be otherwise. She then links that to the evaluation. My group has a problem with that. Why can't you look at it in three years and not right now? Why is it necessary to put forward such a far-reaching legislative proposal first, when there may be opportunities to organise it differently and better when it can be considered? It is precisely in order to ensure that the VPD principle is implemented as effectively as possible that it is important to make the VPDs more flexible. The VPD principle, unless in itself, is clearly stated in the bill. I congratulate the proposers on that. It's a clear story. It is VPD, and only if VPD cannot, private security is possible under strict conditions, which, by the way, will still have to be regulated to a large extent in the AMvB. But "VPD, unless" only works if VPD is also a real option. I find it difficult to assess whether it is indeed a real option, even though we have not been able to understand the costs of private security compared to the costs of a VPD. What is to be paid for a VPD is quite clear, €5,000, but neither the proposers nor the minister can tell us about the cost of private security. It is also not possible to estimate to what extent, in addition to those 40 VPDs, other transports will or will not use VPDs or private security. We just don't know. I hear the Minister say that we will hopefully have more information about this in the evaluation and that the evaluation will focus on the impact of the cost or the cost of private security in this respect. The force monopoly belongs to the government. The use of violence can, as is stated, be done under conditions by private parties. But that is without prejudice to the government's responsibility and duty of care. The government grants the permit. The authorities will therefore have to assess, on the basis of the conditions it lays down, whether that permit leads to a situation which is safe and responsible for that transport, especially for the people on board a ship. But what are the conditions that the minister is going to set, all of them still have to be settled at AMvB. The Minister has given a little more clarity about accreditation, but has not at all addressed my question as to why he chooses to pass a standard of 100 nautical miles. Why not 50 or 150 miles? Why does he choose a 20% cost difference? Maybe I can repeat those questions in second term? Then the Minister can answer that question. Mr. Chairman. We continue to have a great deal of trouble with the bill. We will consider it and it will be clear at the vote next week what the final position of my group is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u87	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, too, I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their reply. A very good answer, which, as far as I am concerned, gives confidence that this problem will now be addressed. The problem is piracy. It has the wind in the sails and that leads to fear, insecurity and job losses for our ships. As so often said: Navigare necesse est... I occasionally throw in some Latin for the depth. That was also the motto in World War II. If we fail now, others will take it from us. The government's job is to protect the merchant navy. Violence can be indispensable if all other possibilities have failed. We are following the De Wijkerslooth Committee on this matter. But if this duty of care is not fulfilled, we have a duty to enforce it by force if necessary. The word "sealing" has been dropped. That always has a bit of a negative association of unnecessary regulation, but in this case it has a positive sound. There are a lot of rules, but they are also necessary given the seriousness of the matter. In the case of gun violence, you shouldn't leave anything to chance. So I think the abundance of rules in this case is very good. It does, however, mean that the matter is dealt with in a very detailed manner. It's all greats that can change, and they need to be adjusted. This, in turn, requires flexibility and flexibility, but it does not require a law in a formal sense. You need lower, delegated regulations for that. We therefore share all the objections to AMvBs and ministerial arrangements, but in this case they are a necessary consequence of the chosen closure. Now, that's how we feel, we've talked about it long enough. It's been said several times. Senatu deliberante Saguntum periit. Saguntum was a port in the Mediterranean, not near us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u89	But it's near the Barbary pirates, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u90	Well, we'll talk about it again. The Netherlands is a seafaring country. It has to stay that way. That creates a duty for us to protect that maritime transport. This proposal offers good security opportunities. The shipowners themselves have been asking for it for years. Greetings they still haven't given up. I shall, of course, propose to my group that we vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u91	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not speak Latin here, but I would like to return with you to a few centuries ago. The Sovereign Military Hospital Order of Saint-Jan of Jerusalem, Rhodes and Malta has for centuries ensured that the sailing routes in the Mediterranean and the area far beyond, the Middle East and even further, were protected from piracy until Napoleon expelled them from Malta. This order could no longer fight the pirates. Moreover, I do not know of a sovereign order that has so much territory in its name and since Napoleon no longer has any territory. It's a very interesting matter of state law that you have a sovereign institution without territory, but that aside. We're going back to the present time now. I was somewhat surprised by the words of my honourable colleague in the SP when he said that the damage caused by piracy should simply be borne by the shipowners. It is not the shipowners who sit on those ships and are exposed to piracy, but the ordinary sailors, sailors and sailors, while the home front is anxiously waiting for their return. My group is therefore primarily concerned with their safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u93	I'm throwing this accusation far from my point of view. I didn't say all the damage came from the shipowner. All I said was that a normal business risk belongs to the shipowner. The other thing you came up with yourself. I'd like to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u94	I know exactly what you said. This leads me to make this point. My group, and not only my group, but also the initiators, are primarily concerned with their safety. If security cannot be guaranteed in all cases by military protection from the state because the ships are too small to shelter 11 men or because of the spot market I use that term to describe the whole market for short, my group believes that, subject to strict safeguards and under the supervision of the government, private security officers may indeed be involved. Those strict safeguards are laid down in the law and are further developed in the general measure of governance, of which both Chambers have a veil. It is the case that when both chambers are found or when one of the two chambers considers that it should be incorporated into the law, the Chamber has the power and even, I would say, the duty to make that clear. My group therefore believes that it is justified to use private security when this is beneficial to the safety of the passengers. This is all the more so now that this has already been done in other democratic states around us, as the initiators have pointed out. Our questions have been answered carefully and satisfactorily, both by the initiators and by the minister, as we expect from him and are used to this bill. I will therefore recommend to my group that we vote in favour of the legislative proposal, which is the basis for their initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u95	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. You brought a very thick book.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u96	There's those knights in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u97	Oh, there are the knights, the Maltese knights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u98	Yes. Do you want to know what book that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u99	No, I'll talk to you about that later. Thank you, Mrs Lokin. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for their comprehensive reply. I can see that there is indeed a difference in the appreciation of the government's monopoly of violence. In my first term, I indicated that, as far as we are concerned, this belongs in principle to the government. You're not gonna let that go. At the same time, this also implies a duty of public concern for its citizens wherever they are. It must therefore be possible to comply with it, but I can only imagine that if it is not complied with, there can be... But then you actually lose the principle that it belongs to the government. When I hear the initiators and the minister, they are a little more pragmatic on the one hand in the state of law and on the other hand in the economic arguments which they believe can play a part in deciding whether or not to leave it to others. In my opinion, that is precisely the problem, because it really matters what choices you make when making public capacity available or not. We have talked extensively about the VPD and to what extent it can be made more flexible. This seems to be very difficult and, at the same time, makes the implementation of this VPD principle very dependent on the extent to which it can be adapted to the needs of the sea. From the idea that it may not be ruled out for economic reasons, you are actually opening the door to more competition. This will automatically increase the risk of using private security. That is not a taboo, but it may even be interchangeable. And that becomes more important as VPD isn't really suitable for what it takes. Well, that's where we see the big problem. That became even clearer when we talked to the Minister about these permits and the demands they make. The law clearly indicates how the set of standards and rules for these security companies are set at AMvB. The minister says, "We don't know how we're gonna fill that out yet." My question is who is going to draw it up. We've heard, "Defense sets standards for the VPDs." It also actually determines how flexible it can be. I cannot imagine that we are going to set different standards in that set of standards and rules that the government uses for itself. I would therefore like to have a little more clarity about this, perhaps from the Minister rather than from the initiators. We shouldn't be taking double standards. So I would like to clarify that a little bit. Another point I would like to put to Mr Koopmans is the overriding authority. In fact, Mr Koopmans admitted that it is not always the captain who has the last word, but if you listen carefully to the story, it almost seems as if he is the overriding authority in particular with regard to adjacent matters, and not so much with regard to the use of violence itself. I had mentioned some quotes in the first term. I would like to come back to that. It is a quote from the NVKK. He says explicitly: there is no permission from the captain to the team leader for the use of violence. The NVKK also says that the last word of the captain is actually a theoretical possibility. In their view, it is inconceivable that the captain should make use of it, because he does not understand the use of force. The NVKK says that even in contracts it is stated that in matters of life and death the right to self-defense outweighs overriding authority. So I'd like to have that mirror. The initiator has already indicated that there is a need for consultation. But can he give us a more precise description of what that overriding authority is in, really when it comes to violence? Or is it just about other kinds of decisions related to them? Mr. Chairman. We have talked about making VPDs flexible as an alternative, but we have also explicitly asked to examine other alternatives. One of the things I'd like to give you is this. In Somalia, you can see very clearly that emptying the sea was one of the causes that started it all. Fishermen lost their income as a result. Is that something that is being looked at, perhaps by the initiators or by the minister? Is it being considered to what extent international agreements can combat these kinds of causes? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question about international cooperation. I can imagine that if all countries want to protect their populations, they can also agree together on what they are using their maritime capacity on. Mr Ruers and I have also spoken about this. The Minister mentions a number of EU initiatives, but I read that those operations are those to which one country provides ten and the other four military. This is of a much more limited nature than when Member States or countries jointly make structural agreements to secure their own ships through military forces. This could actually lead to a pool, which would significantly increase capacity. Hopefully, the Minister will be able to indicate what efforts are being made in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for the careful and detailed answer to many of the questions put by the Chamber. This legislative proposal may have taken some time, but it really gives the impression that there have been thorough and wide-ranging reflections on all aspects. In any case, our group is satisfied with that. For our group it is true that it can agree to this law and also to the idea that under conditions private security is possible on merchant ships, also in view of the scale in which it takes place. That is a certain precision that is also applied here. We can support that, too. There is one point that remains unsatisfactory in everything we have heard here today. This is about costs, and also about the dynamics of costs. We know something about how much these VPDs cost. We know very little about what these private security officers cost. As far as the latter is concerned, I think that the authors and the Minister with a carpenter's eye know a little more about this than this debate shows. After all, private guards were already there. Shippers have already employed and paid for private security in the past. So you could already know something about that with each other. Then it is not exactly the cost items as such, but the dynamics behind them. Is hiring such a private security company a much more attractive option than a VPD, for example? What exactly is happening there? We know the preference of the shipowners. They support this bill and thus also support the legal introduction of this form of security. Is there any interest in that on their part? It would be a good idea for this debate to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u103	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u104	I see I have 23 seconds left. Oh, no, I'm over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u105	You're just 23 seconds past it, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u106	Mr President, I will advise my group to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u108	Thank you, Madam President. And, of course, I thank the initiators for their comprehensive answer and the Minister for answering the many questions. I'd like to be brief. In any case, I would like to join in Mrs Vlietstra's many questions on costs and insight. I fully share that and those are my questions in this regard. I would also like to support a number of questions from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I would like to point out that we attach great importance to the State's monopoly on violence, but also recognise that under circumstances there must be opportunities to hire private security guards. The question is, of course, what the circumstances are and how these permits and conditions are. That is why I regret that we do not have enough insight to make a proper assessment. If, for example, I look at Article 4 (2) (b) where it says that "if, in the opinion of our Minister, acceptance of military protection would result in an additional cost to be determined by AMvB compared with the cost to private maritime security personnel," then I say that we cannot compare this, because we simply do not have that information. I'm sorry to hear that. 'Cause what are we gonna get now? If the bill is passed, we get the AMvB. So what are we gonna do? Then we're gonna have that discussion again. Then maybe we'll get those figures and we'll do the whole debate again. I would have liked to have had that debate here and now. In fact, we are postponing the debate on costs, distribution and conditions for us now. I also think it will be very difficult for the Minister to determine how to stay with that permit and maintain the right balance, because this is simply a very difficult subject. Mr Kuiper already asked about the cost competition that could exist between individuals and Defence. We don't hear much about that either. We don't actually hear about it. We can't judge it. It is a pity that what should have been discussed now will be reviewed in the Lower House and Upper House over an x-number of months. I'm sorry about that. That's a missed opportunity. Finally. The Minister replied to my questions and to Mrs Strik's questions about international maritime organisations. He did a great job showing what happened, but I could have read that in the pieces, because that was also what it said. What I am curious about is whether serious thought has been given to introducing maritime central, collective protection and armaments with other countries in order to prevent piracy. It's about the safety of the people and the ships, and about the concerns of the families. If we want to promote this security, I think it is very clever to take preventive action against piracy. We must do this internationally in all areas of the world. My question to the Minister is therefore once again whether he would like to take a look at it and whether he would like to discuss it. If that hasn't happened yet, will he? I think it is very important, even in the next round of the debate, to be able to judge that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u110	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two petitioners and to the Minister for Energy. He's already had a whole debate, but he can't see that. I think that the VPD concept for my group is much sharper in this debate. That's the added value of this day, I think. I have been struggling a little with the choice of the organizational mode, namely the eleven VPDs and the like and the costs. That's DOD. The responsibility for outsourcing and licensing and all these matters lies with the Justice Department. The Minister said that I am a coordinating ruler. He should keep both cases together. I do not expect him to comment on the operational design of the VPD, but I do expect him to consider whether a real offer has been made and whether there is consistency between supply and demand. Mr. Chairman. We talked about the stakes, the costs and the speed. I believe that it will have to be the duty of this Minister to ensure that, if the Chamber decides to do so, this must be a necessary complement to the duty of care which the State clearly cannot fulfil on that part. This is reflected in the safety aspects of people on ships as well as in the economic field. Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I asked whether there were any alternatives. I have been questioned by my colleague, Mr Strik. Are there any alternatives? Have they been tried? That has not really been answered at all. Implicitly you could say that all of that has indeed been looked at and rejected, so there are no such alternatives. This is it. But I would really like to hear that, because I think that is important for the assessment. Then we talked about the legislative design. Is it legitimate? I myself was also questioned by Mr Strik. At that point, I wasn't quite clear. I was just checking it out and just when I thought I was out and wanted to cross over to discuss it with colleague Strik, she interrupted. So I am doing it now for the public interest and for the Acts. What I was concerned with was Article 9, eighth paragraph. In his letter of 18 January, the Minister wrote that I found out there that, in the light of the text of Article 9 (8), linguistically, the impression is that the instruction of violence merely refers to the rules laid down by general administrative action. Later in the letter and in the footnote he explains that the instruction of violence is formally incorporated into the law, because that is a different concept. I refer to footnote 3 on page 5. It says: The Act of Protection for the Merchant Shipping does not provide for the possibility of sub-delegation to the level of the ministerial arrangement for the instruction of violence. I thought I would make that clear to myself, but perhaps it is also useful for the deliberations. Then I come to the point that Mr Ruers and others also spoke about. At what level does this Chamber have to watch operationally? That also has to do with delegation and the AMvBs. I would like to say to myself that this is also a matter of wise self-limitation. We've had that on foreign missions before. I may be in a different way than others. It is certified and can be audited by international organisations. We know that. If you look at the best practices, you can see that about twenty international organisations are involved. I think we can have a little more confidence that it can be legitimate if it doesn't happen in the government organization, but in private. Furthermore, Mr Ruers raised the standard: if Defence says it should be 11, it can never be safe for seafarers on a ship if it is four. That doesn't seem logical to me, because you can organize things differently. It also appears that other countries set different standards. It is an operational starting point. So that is not a priori unsafe. Okay, Mr. Chairman. That's the wise self-limitation I wanted to impose on myself. I would say that this debate has given us a number of useful perspectives on this point. I'm going back to my group. I have the last sentence of my first term in front of me. And yet that is still the last sentence of my second term, namely that we are also waiting with interest for the answer of the second period, because we have not yet made a final assessment of this. And it still is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u111	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I ask the initiators and the minister: are you all able to answer directly? You only need five minutes? I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes, until 11:15 p.m. Because I'd like to be done by noon. You understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u112	Mr. Koopmans, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all Members who have asked questions for this. First of all, I have to correct myself briefly. I was talking about the captain's reporting obligation from Article 12 (13) of the bill. It would have been inspired by Article 439h, Code of Criminal Procedure, but that must be 539h, Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u114	Everyone would have found out by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u115	At least you, Mr. Chairman. I know. Mrs. Strik once again asked about the relationship between the captain and the team leader. Isn't it true that the captain doesn't always have the overriding authority, that transcendent decision-making power? The captain's always in charge. The captain always has that decision-making authority. So he can always stop the team leader. For the sake of clarity, I have said this, also in response to a question from Mr Kuiper: if the pirate has climbed over the railing without anyone knowing and is behind someone with his machete or kalashnikov, then the team leader can turn around and defend himself. Then he doesn't have to see the captain first, because by then he might be dead. That is the answer to the previous question as to whether the relationship we have here is not more important than decisions on life and death. I'd say that's the point. It's about people's safety. It is precisely that you can do what is necessary if it is urgent and urgent. But beyond that, even at that time, the captain is still in charge. The captain's always in charge. There's no alternative. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuiper once again asked about the costs. With him and many here, I would very much like to know much more about that data. But once again, these are business-economic, secret data, which in many cases we have not wanted or been able to give to us. This is of course abroad, because here it is not legalized. But isn't it the case, as Mr Kuiper also asked, that it could be much more attractive to act with private security than with a VPD? It's obvious that a VPD is hired a lot of times now. That VPD is heavily subsidised. So basically, the government keeps the costs for a team of eleven people, who are very capable and free of charge, you might say, trained, artificially low. So maybe the government is competing with those private security guards in that sense. But it's a different market. We're probably dealing with very small teams here. They can't be delivered now. If you have a very small ship and you only have a few people, it'll probably be cheaper than if you have a big ship and you need a VPD of 11 people. Once again and finally, the Minister for Defence has told us that she is constantly facing this issue. She's not gonna wait until it's been three years. That assessment is a good reason to look again. It will, of course, consider all the circumstances to see if it can't be more efficient and cheaper. We are very grateful for that. My final answer to the questions put here. Mr Backer asked which alternatives have been considered. Apologies if his question in the melee may have disappeared temporarily, but now anyway. Yes, many alternatives have been examined by my predecessors, Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Knops, and also by Mr Van Helvert. They are also very often polite in practice, in those nine years or more that we are already dealing with piracy of this magnitude. Firstly, all the precautions you can take are the non-violent protective equipment you can use. That's a lot of them. I call barbed wire, the strobe, the sound, the speedier sailing; these are all alternatives. Perhaps Mr Backer also asked what alternatives there are for "VPD unless" and private security. A lot of that has been considered. One of them is whether we can't do the VPD a little bit more flexible. That has been lashed and pulled, but unfortunately it has still not been possible, despite the fact that everyone is aware of the importance. But let's keep pulling it, because we all want VPDs instead of private. But we need to put security first. What alternatives have been discussed? If VPDs could not be very flexible, perhaps it should all be private, as I believe in Denmark and at least in the United Kingdom? Those good, democratic states of law have confidence in all of them private. We have not chosen to do so, because we still want the VPD to be used and the government to do it itself. So from there again, "VPD, unless." I would like to mention two more alternatives. One is that we're using reservists for this. That is an option which Mr De Wijkerslooth and his committee have considered. I understood later, including from the Defense Department, that this is not manageable, because those reservists must operate under the same military concept as the current VPD. They may not be full-time soldiers, because they are reservists, but they still have to operate according to the very careful standards of Dutch military servants. That's what politics wants, of course. Well, you couldn't have. The last alternative is temporary military making of private security. Mr De Wijkerslooth has also looked into whether this can be done. Then you'll have it flexible and private, but you'll make them temporary military and still be subject to military regulations. The Ministry of Defence has made it clear that this has a lot of practical objections, because who do you take before as military, where do these people come from, how can you make sure and what about the relationship of authority? What about the ultimate supervision and control; is there a military right to do so or is it not? And what about when these people are, for example, Philippines? Well, you couldn't have. So all these alternatives have been searched. That is why this is the only conclusion that many people can come up with. Then it is no longer time to say: let's look even further, try further and think of new things. No, there are people who need this security now and there is now also an opportunity for your Chamber to provide that security. I hope we can all do that, especially you. Mr. Chairman. Can I ask you whether you can decide whether the floor could now be taken by me, but I am sure you, Mr Van Helvert? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u116	I'll think about it, but I hope not until after midnight! No, I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on Mrs Vlietstra's question from the Labour Party. She said: think about making the pirate's countries of residence safer, and think about the illegal fishing that can be dealt with. On this point, as initiators, we can say that we fully agree with the Labour Party that this is very important. EU missions are also working on this and the Netherlands has worked hard on it, even when the Netherlands was a member of the UN Security Council. But that has not yet been settled, while our Dutch ships have to sail now. That is why we believe that this bill is necessary. When it is all safe, I fully agree with Mrs Vlietstra that you could almost say that this law is superfluous. Well, that would be the best thing that could happen to us. The fact is, it's not unnecessary right now. I would also like to answer Mrs Strik's question, which asked: can we not cooperate more internationally, and can we not do more about it, like more VPDs? That's a good point. They're great ideas. The Labour Party and the SP also advocated a broader defence effort on this issue, but that is not settled overnight either. In fact, we've been working for nine years to get that settled. It's not the issue right now, but our ships have to sail now. Finally. I would like to say to the political groups that say that they are considering it: I think that is quite understandable, because this struggle has also been discussed in my second parliamentary group. I've been there myself. That struggle has even been on the table for years, so I can understand that struggle in your group as well. What has been my personal motivation to bring this initiative proposal to a successful conclusion is that it ultimately concerns Dutch people who are on a ship. Captains and sailors are currently going unprotected or perhaps illegally protected into the sea. Or they're gonna be flagged to let another country take care of it. That's the alternative if we don't change anything. And I think that we can also take this into account in our consideration: how do we deal with our citizens who ensure that the Dutch economy thrives through maritime trade? How do we deal with them when we say: we are not changing anything now, because we think that that and that still need to be figured out, after nine years? And when I think of the persistence that the sector has shown by saying that it is also very important, even after nine years, I think that we should consider that something should finally be settled for our Dutch people who work very hard under dangerous conditions. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u119	Mr. Chairman. Just a little while longer. I have a few things to emphasize and answer. Mr Ruers and Mr Backer asked whether there had been any study in the past of whether non-violent means, namely stroboscope and sound cannons, could be introduced as an alternative. But these alternatives have not proved sufficient. I believe that the examination of these alternatives has also been discussed in some detail in the Chambers. A pool of other countries with regard to these VPDs is not necessary because there is in principle a sufficient supply of VPDs. I would particularly like to point out to Mr Backer, but also to others who have asked questions about it, who are circling around it a little bit, that 'VPD, unless' remains the starting point. Mrs. Vlietstra asks: where did you get that 100 miles and that 20% cost difference? It has been an approach to the initiators to tackle these two principles, but in the end that point of departure is always tested by the Minister on that VPD-unless principle. This is also evident from the design of the law. If a VPD is just possible on a good basis, then those criteria will mainly form to that. Finally, the rules on licensing come into the AMvB. For the sake of clarity, Mr Backer mentioned that sub-vote, but the instruction of violence is also included in the AMvB, but that is also what I said in the introduction. Mr. Chairman. Those were the additional points I wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u120	I'm sorry I have one last question to ask. I would have asked who would set these standards and rules for those private security guards. Is that what happens to the Department of Defense? And what about those standards in relation to the standards that the Ministry itself uses in terms of security and deployment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u121	These rules are, of course, drawn up in consultation with the Ministry of Defence, also from the point of view of expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u122	Well, then the follow-up to that question: what about those standards? We have discussed that the VPD is based on certain safety standards applied by the Ministry. How do they relate to the standards that are drawn up for private security? Are there two types of safety standards or principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u123	No, but then I'll go all the way back to that certification system as it is in the bill. I had just taken it with me; I have to look for it now. I understand the concern expressed by your Chamber at this point: are we not going to move in the direction of staying in maritime terms, of cheap stunt providers who say they can arrange it with one and a half men and a rubber boat? That's what we talked about in my first term. That is not the intention, of course. That is what the entire authorisation and certification as set out in Chapter 4 of the law are clearly preventing. But then we come up with what that's gonna look like. In the implementation phase, I will return to those AMvBs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-13.u125	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week.
