ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, the Members in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. I would also like to welcome the members of the cabinet. The next item is General Political Reviews. This is a debate between the Lower House and the Cabinet on the plans of the Cabinet presented yesterday. Today we are discussing the first term of office. As is customary in the budgetary procedure, the spokesperson of the largest opposition party will first speak, followed by a member of the coalition party. The Prime Minister will respond tomorrow. He will answer the questions of the Chamber. The Minister of Justice has just informed me that he cannot be present today in connection with the sad event in Amsterdam in which a lawyer was shot. He will inform the Chamber about this in the course of the day. Before I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV, I would like to say that many people are following this debate and that everything you do in the Chamber is visible. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Allow me to begin this debate with a word about what happened in Amsterdam this morning. I think I speak on behalf of all colleagues when I say that we are shocked by what happened in Amsterdam: the murder of the lawyer, Mr Wiersum. I want to start with his family, his friends and his acquaintances from the bottom of my heart. The profession of lawyers, too, I say support and thought. I do not want to make this political, but at this terrible moment I hope that family members, fellow lawyers or anyone else will be given the protection they need in their difficult profession. I think I'd like to start with that on behalf of everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I want and I will spend my speaking time today to a large extent in a different way from other years. Last week, the coalition parties VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion, together with the group of DENK, made it impossible for me to speak here in this house, actually the house of democracy, even before the forthcoming verdict in the political trial against me. First a verdict and then a debate: apparently they had agreed with each other. Above all, the bottom stone must not emerge now and no conclusions must yet be drawn for the verdict. 'Cause that might help me. And that, Mr. Chairman, is false to me. But I'll talk about that political persecution. Nobody's gonna shut me up about that. And I will do that today. Here. Live. On television. In the house of democracy. About the hatred of those justice officials against me and about their direct involvement in my trial, about the decline of our rule of law, about the madness of the state-facilitated claims against me and about all the energy that takes years of misery. Mr. Chairman. In a few weeks it is exactly fifteen years since I lost my own freedom, that I had to leave my house in beautiful Venlo and was taken with my wife to a barracks on the Dutch-Belgian border and later to a prison in Zeist to be safe. There were no safehouses at the time. I've never been home since. In those 15 years I have never been alone on the street and I have never emptied my own mailbox again. Privacy has since become an abstract concept for me, because my agenda, both business and private, goes to the DKDB every day and every week to the intelligence service, the AIVD. I say this because over the past 15 years I have learned that freedom, the most precious possession of a human being, is never self-evident, that every day you have it, you have to enjoy it, that you always have to fight for it and cherish it every second. Some things can't be valued until you don't have them anymore. And I crave my freedom every day. I lost my own because I criticize Islam and because I am convinced that my political belief is that Islam is a threat to our freedom. But I could never have said that it wasn't just Al-Qaeda and the Taliban, ISIS and other idiots, but of course it was also a very different way, but still parts of the Dutch government are doing everything they can to fight me in their own way, because they hate me, and they're patching the trias politician to their boots to get at me. In the first process I've experienced, the so-called Wilders I process, after the release of my short anti-Koran film Fitna in 2008, it already started. Back then, CDA Justice Minister Hirsch Ballin actually wanted to give a political lead to the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute me, but another way was found. His party colleague, the councillor of the Amsterdam Court of Justice, Tom Schalken, was used to prosecute me by means of a so-called Article 12 procedure. And I did. The CDA judge Schalken even went so far that he tried to influence my late friend and colleague Hans Jansen at dinner shortly before his trial in court. Shameless. But luckily that all came true. The court was avenged. The CDA judge Schalken resigned and I was finally cleared of all charges. But it was, of course, mafia practice. Then the Wilders II process followed, after my "more or less" question at a political meeting of the PVV in 2014 in The Hague. I don't care what you think of that statement. Anyone can have their opinion on that. By the way, 41% of the Dutch agreed. But apart from what you think, what happened then is hard to comprehend. There were parades, with mayors first. Like in Nijmegen, where CDA mayor Bruls bought the givers coffee and tea, while the summoned band played a cheerful music. There were thick piles of pre-printed declaration forms all over the place. The police went to mosques to help fill out the forms. The police also said that she didn't like Wilders' statements. Counselors of the Labour Party did translations in the mosque. Imams put pressure on mosque visitors, people who often didn't know what it was about at all, to sign these declaration forms. We know this from witness interviews. Mr. Chairman. But it got a lot crazier. In the meantime, we also know that the Public Prosecutor's Office itself at least had serious doubts as to whether it should prosecute me. It didn't even want to prosecute a few statements. And yet there was a trial, with a very bad role of the Ministry of Justice of then VVD Minister Opstelten. A witness even heard Opstelten say 'I quote that witness, I was not there myself, but I quote that witness 'that I was in front of them'. Madam President. The officials of that VVD Minister Opstelten then interfered extensively with my criminal proceedings. They called me evil. Imagine: an official of justice calls a parliamentarians evil! I thought that only in dictatorships opposition leaders are seen as a form of cancer that should be eradicated. But then they helped the state's attorney's office with the defense again. They gave legal arguments to maximise the likelihood of a conviction. They adapted press releases. They wanted to get the petition from the D.A.'s office in advance so they could read along, give tips to the state's attorney's office. There were attorney generals and prosecutors who made police reports, as we now know, in which there were obituaries. And witnesses such as the same Minister Opstelden but also top officials, members during their interrogation to the council commissioner at the court suddenly collectively of amnesia. On nine out of ten questions, they said they couldn't remember. And Minister Grapperhaus, who is not here today for understandable reasons, deliberately informed the Chamber two weeks ago incompletely and misplaced the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. With all this interference from the Ministry of Justice, the rule of law has been violated, but the coalition does not want to debate it until the judge has sentenced it and I may therefore hope not, but it may have been condemned. I really don't have any words for it. The members of the government's groups should be deeply ashamed of themselves. If the rule of law is at stake in Hungary or Poland, then it is shameful. We will then be demanding heavy sanctions, and we would prefer to have an urgent debate on the same day. But if it happens in front of their own eyes here in their own country with a colleague of the opposition in their own parliament, then unfresh cases are at once under the courts, then everything has to be covered up for a while until the verdict has been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u4	You know, that bully in the schoolyard, that bully that makes everyone miserable. That is exactly what Mr Wilders has done over the past ten years. Now he's standing here holding a lot of stories, the whole political instruments are opening up, and Mr. Wilders is appealing to the rule of law. It has been Mr Wilders who has often said in recent years that people's representatives should be persecuted because of their opinion, that political parties should be banned, that judges should be dismissed because they would be accomplices of terrorists. These are statements made by Mr Wilders, and that is why I am asking him through you, Mr Wilders: why is Mr Wilders making an appeal to the rule of law at this time when he has done so for ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u5	I only function within the rule of law, I do not function outside the rule of law. I am saying that what is happening now is contrary to the rule of law. Of course, it is a big misunderstanding that politicians should not be allowed to judge judgments. We all did that here with the release of the person who committed the murder of Pim Fortuyn. Each political group shall decide on a judgment or release or whatever. It's okay. It's part of the deal. But what matters now is that a Ministry of Justice, the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, has interfered in the substance of a case brought by a member of the House of Representatives. No one should. No citizen is allowed to do that, but not at all in the case of any opposition. If it had happened to you, I would have said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u6	That is certainly very nice, but Mr Wilders is calling for the rule of law when it suits him. Let me take a few other statements. Mr Wilders' main item on the agenda is de-islamizing, closing mosques, jerking the Korans off the locker by police officers. None of that is public law. How can it be that, at a time when he is struggling, he is making such an appeal to the rule of law and making an extremely fervent plea for the rule of law and against interference, which I agree with, when he himself has done nothing but dovetail those rules over the last few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u7	That is not the case either, because there too we are using the means of the rule of law. Last year, during this debate, I tabled an initiative legislative proposal, which is now in written preparation and is almost ready for plenary. That initiative proposal states that we should close those Islamic schools, that we should close those mosques. So that is also what I am doing in the parliamentary way. Then I'm not gonna stand in front of the mosques screaming, no, I'm gonna file a bill that says exactly what we want to do. That's how it works in a democracy. Of course I can yell if I want something. I will make a proposal and we will see how it is voted on. I will then have to accept the outcome of that majority, without prejudice to the fact that I am going to work again the next day to find a new majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u8	Where in the rule of law it says that judges should be dismissed because they would be accomplices of terrorists? That is a quote from Mr Wilders. But what really matters, Mr. Wilders, is that you made terrible statements in 2014. You let us have an opinion on that. That has put people in a lot of fear. This has led children aged 8, 9 years to ask whether they can stay in this country. We in the DENK Group believe that Mr Wilders should pay for these statements and then we have a debate on them after the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u9	All right, Mr President, I was in the process of making my comments to the colleagues from the opposition parties I accused of not supporting a debate before the verdict. I said it last year in the order of business, fortunately there is no execution here, but it is as if you say to someone who has been sentenced to death: yes, we have indeed noticed that something has gone wrong, procedures, perhaps interference, something in your trial has not gone well, we are going to look at it and we will talk about it but we will do so after the sentence has been passed. Yes, Mr President, that is mustard after the meal, and at least it doesn't do me much good. So I say to those colleagues in the coalition: if you had a sense of justice, you would not have stopped an early debate. You can't say it's under the judge now, because it went wrong when it came to the judge. That must be restored, and we can at least get that right here in a statement, but you are taking that opportunity away from me now. The entire opposition minus DENK supported me in a debate for the verdict on my case but the coalition did not. I assure everyone, cabinet and civil servants, wherever they are, that I will not rest until the whole truth is over the table and that anyone who has anything to do with it, in the sense that something has happened unjustly, has paid a high price for it. Because this corrupt political process must be stopped immediately if the Netherlands still wants to intercept a banana republic. I ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with me. I ask him: these are the General Political Reviews, and this is about the rule of law and whether he wants to go into detail tomorrow about everything I have just said. Mr President, I will tell you quite frankly, it feels somewhat uncomfortable and unreal to move to the order of the day now, but I will do so, because our beautiful Netherlands has a lot of problems and is not just dealing with a mutilated rule of law. Our country is also the victim of what the King called the broad center yesterday in the eulogy of the throne. I myself would prefer to describe that broad centre as the political mediocrity that has plagued our country for decades. In the Netherlands, we are governed by technocrats, by lobby clubs, Pim Fortuyn already talked about it with a love for multicule, climate, self-hatred, which does not solve problems, but only make them worse, because the politics of the middle always choose the path of the least resistance, while real problems require decisiveness. At every election, people are told at home that there is something to choose, but nothing is less true, because in our country most political parties have become very similar, in fact interchangeable. VVD, D66, CDA, Labour Party, Christian Union, GroenLinks, put another label on it, but it's actually one pot wet. They have become interchangeable parties with a lack of their own identity. Who knows the real difference between D66 and GroenLinks? Or between the Labour Party and GroenLinks, or between the VVD and the CDA? Mr. Chairman. They do not dare to name real big problems in our country, let alone really tackle them, such as mass immigration and Islamisation. Respect for women is important to them, but they do nothing if 40,000 women in the Netherlands are genitally mutilated. Terrorists find them criminals, but they let them return from Syria and walk freely on the streets. Our own values, humanist values, Jewish Christian values, they actually think are better than those of Islam, yet they import hundreds of thousands of Muslims. It's the collective cowardice of the broad center. And when there is something to choose, if there are parties that do have an opinion and a backbone, then the political trickbox opens: demonisation, exclusion, outplay. Whether your election wins or loses, we both do. It doesn't really matter if you're the PVV. With the second party of the Netherlands, because we were, in 2017, not even talked after the elections. The great winner of the State Elections, Forum for Democracy, was excluded from government in almost all provinces. Scandalously out of play, because that cowardly midget keeps each other's hands above their heads and wants to divide the lanes among themselves. In order not to get overwhelmed by that difficult people with an opinion, the referendum was immediately abolished. Mr. Chairman. Soft healers make stinky wounds. Exactly what political mediocrity looks like, we could all see on television last week, at Nieuwsuur. The reason was so-called new revelations that children in Islamic schools in the Netherlands are told that people with a different faith than Islam deserve the death penalty, and that you better congratulate someone on a murder than on Christmas. They also had fun filling in exercises at a Muslim school. Should you give gays, Christians and unbelievers a whip, b. stone or c. kill with a sword? Netherlands in 2019. And there they were, at Nieuwsuur, the colleagues Dijkhoff and Segers. They were shocked. Shocked. The group chairmen of the VVD and the Christian Union, who, like their friends from the Labour Party, the CDA and D66, are one hundred percent 100 percent! To be responsible for bringing in, cherishing and hugging the ideology called Islam. For years they have been warned by the PVV about the dangers of Islam in the Netherlands, about the violence and the terror that Islam brings, about the hatred that poor children get shoved in their heads at Muslim schools. But their parties have consistently looked the other way, shoved the problems under the carpet, shoved them away. Our proposals to close those schools were rejected. They preferred to deal with climate agreements, dividend taxation and the fight against obesity. But they didn't do anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u10	Now it gets personal, doesn't it, fighting overweight; but before that I didn't walk to the interrupting microphone. I understand that Mr Wilders is saying this, but I would like to correct something. I wasn't shocked last week. I've also seen the headlines that said I was shocked, but that surprised me again. It is, of course, shocking to see it again, but it confirms what we have known for a long time: that the most orthodox variant of Islam, salafism, political Islam or whatever you want to call it, is poison in society. I have already said this on behalf of my group. That is why we also have measures in the coalition agreement against foreign financing, and that is why we also want to amend Article 2.20 of the Civil Code, which is perhaps the shortest blow. Just last Friday, Minister Dekker announced that it is coming, that it is at the Council of State. Then we can ban these clubs. I understand that Mr Wilders emphasizes the difference in contrast, tone and heaviness, because that is certainly between us. But we have made several proposals and we have already taken various measures. This week we have seen that the board of the Haga Lyceum has to leave; so we are against that. It will not be enough for Mr Wilders to respect that, but I was not shocked by what I saw; I was strengthened in the view that we should continue our fight against Salafism and that this has no place in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr Dijkhoff's reply shows that he has indeed done little or nothing about it. For example, he talks about the excesses of Islam. My answer to Mr Dijkhoff is: everything you saw in that broadcast and also the day before or after, in that other Newscast, were lyrics from the Koran. It wasn't something an extremist made up. What those kids teach in those schools are literally suras from the Koran. There are no two kinds of Islam. There is only one Islam and that is the Islam of Muhammad's life, of the Book of the Koran. There are moderate and moderate Muslims, if that is what Mr Dijkhoff means, he is right in saying so, but there is only one Islam. The discussion in this country about mosques, about Islamic schools, has been going on here for 15 years. And you haven't done anything in those 15 years, Mr. Dijkhoff. You're talking about dismissing the board of the Haga Lyceum. According to an executive, it could take two and a half years, I read. If they issue all the appeals, what they'll do, they won't leave for another two and a half years. But still! Then there will come from Saudi Arabia another board, a new board, with the same people, the same ideas and the same books. Then you'll start again from the beginning. You didn't do anything about it. There's only one solution. If we want those children to grow up in the Netherlands, to participate in Dutch society, to get a job, to have friends, then we have to ban those miserable hate schools for those children and then we have to let them go to normal schools. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u12	I fully agree with Mr Wilders and Mr Dijkhoff that what is happening in these salafistic schools is totally unacceptable and that we must tackle it hard. But last week I also heard a lot of members of the Dutch Muslim community expressing their shame at what happened in those schools. Mr Wilders began this part of his speech by referring to the Dutch values. As far as I am concerned, these Dutch values are freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the fact that we in this country judge people on their actions and their contribution to the future, not on their origins or on their beliefs. Mr Wilders also spoke just now about demonizing and excluding people, but that is exactly what Mr Wilders is doing here again: not addressing individuals on shameful actions and indoctrination of children, but all Muslims in the Netherlands are taking the same approach and using heavy words as de-Islamicisation. My question to Mr Wilders is: what is your message to those hundreds of thousands of Dutch, often born here, who call themselves Muslim and who also speak out strongly against Salafism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u13	How can D66's colleague blame me for exclusion and for everything if I say that I just want to give these Muslim boys and girls a normal education, that I give them a normal school course, that I hope they want to go to a public or whatever school, where no hatred is shoved in their heads, where they don't have to read that you have to kill gay people, throw them off a roof, or that you have to stone apostles. I'm giving these kids a normal life in the Netherlands. That's what I'm giving them. And you're holding on to your idea that it all has to be possible, that we shouldn't say anything about it. And those children are more the victims of liberal D66 policy than of our policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u14	I also give these children a decent school where they receive normal education, where they are forced to participate in Dutch democratic society. But what I do give them is that they don't hear from you every time that you're going to nail up their mosques, that you're going to send the police past their houses to pull the Qur'an out of the bookcase. My specific question is: if you use the word 'de-Islamicisation', what will you do with the hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who call themselves Muslims, who are a moderate Muslim?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u15	The fact is, and I have mentioned it here every year, that 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands say that they regard the Islamic rules as more important than our secular parliamentary laws. That's 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands. And the Netherlands is not alone in that. To point out that that is not something Dutch...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u16	But just to explain my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u17	Maybe I can finish my answer. This is not only the case in the Netherlands. There has been an investigation into about all countries, not only in the West but also in the Arab and Islamic world. Then see that from Indonesia to Egypt, from Pakistan to Bangladesh, from Nigeria to Iran, that everywhere, in all those countries, 60%, 70% and sometimes even 80% of Muslims, as in the Netherlands, think that the Sharia laws, where dogs really do not like bread, where women are worth half of men, where, if you execute it to extremes, gays, Jews, Christians, apostates, infidels, anything that is not Muslim should be severely punished if not murdered. 70% of Muslims worldwide, there are more than one billion in the world, and that is three-quarters of a million in the Netherlands. So it's not a minority, it's not a small minority of Muslims in the Netherlands who say she's a kind of liberal Islam, as far as it already exists. It is the hard Sharia law that is being adopted by a majority, and we must act against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr President, this was not an answer to my question. My question was: what will Mr Wilders do with those hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who call themselves Muslims? He wants to nail down the mosques; he wants to forbid the Qur'an. That has nothing to do with freedom of religion and freedom of speech. But what will he do with all those people who live here, who are born here, who call themselves Dutch, who go to school and work every day to contribute to the future of the Netherlands? Mr President, I note that Mr Wilders is afraid to answer my question as to what he is going to do with those hundreds of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u19	I've told you hundreds of thousands of times what we're gonna do with it. We have an initiative legislative proposal which states how we are going to do all this and what we want to do with it. That's how we deal with Islam. And I hope Muslims leave Islam, not only in the Netherlands but everywhere. Let them choose freedom. How wonderful it would be if the Muslims in the Netherlands left behind that ideology of hatred and violence and chose the freedom of the Netherlands. I'll give them all that. I grant to any Muslim who chooses freedom, that he leaves behind the yoke of oppression and ideological slavery by leaving Islam. There I call upon you to give me the opportunity now that all Muslims in the Netherlands: leave Islam, choose freedom! That's the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u20	Finally. Mr Wilders just used another familiar phrase: that is what we are going to do. I do not hear any concrete proposals from him on how he intends to do that. Actually, I think it's a little cowardly that he's afraid to say that here. If you have such big words about de-islamization, tell me how you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u21	There's a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u22	Finally, the Dutch values, freedom of expression and freedom of religion and people judge on their actions and not on their origins or beliefs, which, according to Mr Wilders, do not apply to hundreds of thousands of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u23	Maybe I can respond briefly to that. 'Cause that's not true either. I invite those people to choose freedom. You must make one distinction. That Islam is not equal to Christianity, to Judaism, to Buddhism, to whatever. That is the whip of Article 1 of the Constitution. One of the reasons that Pim Fortuyn wanted to get rid of that is that it didn't. Islam is not so much a religion as Islam is an ideology. Islam wants to dominate and does not want to integrate into societies like Christianity or Judaism. Islam wants to organize a whole life of man and society. Islam, the word means it already, wants to dominate, suppress. So the big mistake we make here in the Netherlands is that we equal Islam. I'm not against Christian schools, I'm not against Jewish schools, I'm not against public schools. I'm against Islamic schools. And not because I want to discriminate against them, but because I see something happening there that is against the integration of people, which reduces their chances, which says you have to kill gays, throw Christians off roofs, or exactly the other way around, I believe. That's what's happening there, and we shouldn't want that. And that is why we must get rid of that terrible principle of equality, in which Islam is treated equally as religions that deserve better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u24	At the heart of the principle of equality and the core of freedom of religion is not that Mr Wilders or I decide for other people what god they believe in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u25	It's not a religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u26	I would first like to say that I have reacted in the same way as Mr Dijkhoff, which is not shocked. When we saw that broadcast, we weren't shocked because it wasn't new. It was reasonable because there was, that children should be raised in this way, that this should be printed in their heads. The judgment of Mr Wilders and my opinion on this matter are not so different. I can partly follow his criticism of the fact that the cabinet could do more, because legislation has been announced which is still not there. Think, for example, of stopping foreign funding from non-free countries. So there's discontent with me, too. But if Mr Wilders is right and indeed 70% says that Sharia is more important than our Constitution and I would like Sharia legislation and Sharia state, then there is still 30% who are potential supporters of Mr Wilders and of me, in the fight for freedom and in the defence of the rule of law. We have a mayor of Rotterdam who is a Muslim, but who stands for freedom. We have a mayor of Arnhem who stands for freedom, who is against Salafism and speaks out against it. Are those your supporters in the fight for freedom, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u27	You call yourself the mayor of Arnhem. He used to be a colleague here in the Labour Party. That was the biggest fan of one of the founders of Salafism, Mr Al Qradawi. He's done this before. I've done this before. He even wrote in a book that he saw Mr. Al Qaradawi, the great founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, of the most wrong form of salafism, as an example. The fact that he is now talking a little differently to get a nice job and doing taqqiya is something else. But this is absolutely not my example. It's just the example of how not to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u28	That's kind of a circular argument, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u29	But it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u30	So, anyone who's a salafist is my opponent and any Muslim who says he's not, who's lying. Yes, so all Muslims are your enemy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u31	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u32	Then Mr. Aboutaleb is the enemy, and he is not. That is a person who, at risk for his own life, at risk for his own safety, sticks his neck out and stands for our rule of law. Then it's not an exegesis of lyrics. I can make the same judgment on the texts I have read as Mr Wilders. It's what you do with lyrics. When people stand up for freedom and say: I am a Muslim, but I stand for freedom, I stand for the rule of law and I even stand for the freedom of the Wilders, they are not your enemies, but then they are your supporters. Well, then you'll have to talk about the 30%, won't you? Then you must speak differently about Islam and all Muslims than you do every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr. Chairman. 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands consider the Islamic rules more important than our secular laws. Professor Koopmans said that. I say Islamic rules are Sharia rules. Under the Sharia rules, you and yours, the Christians in the Netherlands, are the first to die. Anyone who fights for freedom has my support, of course, but not the Islamic ideology, because it is full of hatred and violence. You can focus on that 30%, but if 70% think those rules are more important, you have to say in the Netherlands, and that's what our initiative bill is about: stop it, we won't allow it, we won't allow it, we won't allow it, we won't allow it. It goes far beyond what the colleague of the Christian Union has just said. He said that the cabinet is doing too little, for example when it comes to funding Muslim schools. But it's not just about funding those Muslim schools. Apart from the funding, even if we could do so ourselves, does Mr Segers not want such a school to be established in the Netherlands, that there is such a school in the Netherlands that says Jews, Christians and non-believers should be stoned, thrown from roofs and whipped? It's not just about funding, is it? We do not want that at all in the Netherlands, do we? You should have arranged in the coalition agreement that these Muslim schools should not exist at all. You should agree with me that Christian and Muslim schools are not comparable. Why do you, as a Christian politician, side with the Muslims? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u34	Like Mr Wilders, I am concerned about the 70%. Like Mr Wilders, I am concerned about developments in the Islamic world. It's going the wrong way. There's more freedom than 100 years ago. There's more hatred than 100 years ago. That is extremely worrying. Only: then who are your enemies and who are your friends? You can't defend freedom by abolishing it. You cannot defend freedom by abolishing it in part or for a minority. You can't fight Salafism and radical Islam by declaring people like Aboutaleb your enemy, pushing them away and saying you can't be a Muslim here. Give them the freedom to be Muslim, but stick to the rule of law. Then stand shoulder to shoulder and fight for freedom, but against the right enemies and with the right friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u35	Radical Islam is a pleonasm. There's only one Islam. There is no moderate Islam. There's no such thing. Any kind of Islam you like for breakfast, really, you believe me. You must resist this. There's only one kind of Islam. To all the people you mention, I say, leave Islam, take our side. You choose freedom when you leave Islam behind. That would be my appeal, and that should also be your appeal, because once again, I find it inconceivable that every time I speak of Islam and name its evil sides, it is also towards Christians, the leader of a Christian party who comes forward and does nothing but bow down to Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u36	Finally. Everyone's welcome to church. This applies to Muslims, but it also applies to Mr Wilders. It would be very nice if people did indeed make a choice, for example for the gospel, but as a politician I stand for freedom and that freedom you cannot only give to people with whom you agree. You can't just give it to people with opinions you like. Freedom is given to people who abide by the rule of law. My question, which I started with and now ends with, is: is someone like Aboutaleb saying that he is Muslim, Dutch and defender of the democratic rule of law, a supporter or an enemy of Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u37	I've always learned that you shouldn't give freedom to an ideology that aims to destroy freedom. There's nothing more unwise than giving freedom to something you want to take away from freedom. I am convinced that we are strengthening the rule of law in the Netherlands by tackling the ideologies that are trying to rob us of our freedom in order to ban it. I am convinced that the rule of law will win, I am convinced that our freedom will win, I am convinced that our tolerance will gain strength if we do not give the forces that want to destroy our freedom rights, but take them away. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr. Chairman. I was triggered by Mr Wilders' remark that people must leave Islam. I note that twice as many people from the PVV have converted to Islam than the PVV has members. That's point one. This morning we heard a speech by Mr Wilders on the rule of law, on freedom. I would like to ask Mr Wilders why he does not allow Muslims in this country the freedom he himself talked about this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u39	I can't force anyone to leave Islam. What someone thinks and what someone believes, apart from what our bill says about the books and temples and so on, you can't change that. You can't change that. What I did was make a call. I know what Islam looks like. I know what Islam means. The Dutch also see it more and more: every day in their streets and in their schools. They see and they know what misery Islam brings. They also know that the Netherlands is not an Islamic country. Of course they know that there are a lot of good Muslims: a lot of people who are not extreme. They know that, too. And yet they know that Islam is not part of the Netherlands. What I have done is appeal to all those Muslims in the Netherlands: choose freedom. Your life gets so much more pleasant, pleasant and freer when you shake off that ideology of hate and violence. I'd almost say, Mr. Kuzu, try it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u40	How can I reconcile freedom with what Mr Wilders has done in the past, namely a call for de-Islamicisation, a ban on mosques, the closure of mosques? There were also PVV representatives who felt that a mosque could be turned off. I call for the ban on the Qur'an. Those aren't calls anymore, they're forbidden. Forbidden run counter to freedom and to the rule of law as we agreed with each other. I often hear Mr Wilders say: there is one Islam, there are no different forms of Islam. Mr Wilders is right. There is one Islam, but there are different interpretations, different currents in Islam. 1 million people in the Netherlands express Islam as it is in a different way. I also see a lot of peace-loving people working hard day in, day out, to deal peacefully and safely with each other in this country. What are you saying to all those people who are trying their stinking best to make sure we live happily together? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a conclusion. If there is one man in politics who promotes intolerance and turns people against each other, that is Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u41	Okay, Mr. Chairman. The political tense of mediocrity, because that is what I was talking about, is devastating for the Netherlands. What that means for our country is hardly a pen to describe. If you aggressively ruin the Sinterklaas parade, you'll get a job. But if you're a brave blockfries and defend our culture, you'll be prosecuted and convicted. If you're teaching children, we were just talking about Christians, Jews and gays being slaughtered, apparently according to the law and there are no pre-printed declaration forms. But do you ask "more or less Moroccans?', You're gonna get convicted. When your daughter gets raped, sometimes the unsub doesn't get 20 years in jail, he gets a talk. When Moroccan youngsters terrorize our daughters in pools, there is no arrest, but some PvdA mayor calls politicians who dare to say something about it. A terrorist prisoner who brutally disrupts the memory of the dead in Vught by screaming Allahoe akbar will not be punished, but a compensation of €27.50 for a formal error. If you are an ordinary Dutchman, you can wait an average of nine years for a social rental house, but if you are an asylum seeker, your azc will be converted for 40 million euros and you will then get a beautiful house with a free home. If you are a single AOW'er, you get about €14,000 in AOW per year. But we spend twice as much on an asylum seeker in this country, namely €28,000 per year. Mr. President, we've gone crazy. "Dutch recently" seems to be the motto of this cabinet. My group, the PVV, believes that we should put the Dutch back together. We believe that it is their country and that it is their country, their culture, their security, but also their income that we must fight for. Prime Minister Rutte promised it, here two years ago in 2017, when the general considerations coincided with the debate on the government statement. Prime Minister Rutte said that after years of crisis, everyone would make a major contribution to purchasing power. "Right ahead," "everyone" and "I promise." Three lies from Prime Minister Rutte. Mr. Chairman. The reality is that a lot of people at home haven't improved at all, but they've gotten worse. Last year, almost half of the people, 48%, lost their income, just like the year before. What do you mean, you're way ahead, Mr. Rutte? Hardworking people with an income of one to one and a half modes, the backbone of our society, see half or more of their income rise to fixed burdens. 800,000 tenants are now financially trapped. Mr. Chairman. Over the past four years, our economy has grown by as much as 10%, but it was mainly the companies that benefited from that growth. The burger had it checked out. In the meantime, one in five households face payment problems. 38% of the Dutch no longer live because of towering healthcare costs. 140,000 people walk by the food bank. Nearly 40,000 people are homeless. They are now promised a plus in purchasing power for next year. That is, if it already happens, rumbling again in the margins. Witnesses get a poor percent. And pensioners, too, the Prime Minister promises, 1%. But if they get cut down on their pensions, they're going to get down to minus 4%, 5%, 6%, depending on how much they're cut. The workers, says Prime Minister Rutte, are now improving their purchasing power by 2%. Half of that comes from wages and the other half, 1%, from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. But who still believes the Prime Minister? In recent years, the percentage of purchasing power he promised the people at home has never been right. It was always less. But they're also study figures, of course. Because the reality of the people at home is really very different. Everything has become more expensive for people. The daily groceries have become more expensive. The health insurance premium has increased. The rents have gone up. All that doesn't change or hardly changes. So really do something for the Dutch is my appeal to the Prime Minister. Do something concrete. Give that budget surplus back to the citizen, then they really get something instead of just crumbs. Now lower the VAT on groceries at last. Reduce your own risk in the care. Lower the rents. That'll help people. Cheaper groceries, no personal risk in care and lower rents. They have nothing to gain from a percentage of a planning agency or a prime minister who's always wrong. Mr. Chairman. I have another idea. I have another idea how we can thank the people at home. How we can finally thank those Dutch for the sacrifices they made during the financial crisis. It was taxpayers who, the Prime Minister will remember, saved ABN AMRO during the crisis of bankruptcy. This cost more than EUR 20 billion. By now, 50% of the bank has already been brought to the market, and this has brought about 8 billion to the treasury. Let's, so is my proposal, now that the remaining share of the stock sells as well. If we do that now, I think there is a good chance that we will be able to raise another 8 billion. You know, Mr President, that we have 8 million families in the Netherlands. 8 billion divided by 8 million is about €1,000 per family. Give that money back to the people who saved the bank in times of crisis. Give that €1,000, the amount should be somewhat known to the Prime Minister, back to the taxpayer. That's what one needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr. Chairman. Do something for the elderly too, I'd like to tell the Prime Minister. One in three pensioners have difficulty living. After a lifetime of work, they don't have peace, they have financial worries. They're gonna avoid care. They often look up to their children's and grandchildren's birthdays because they have no money left to buy them a present. They've been stalling or lagging behind for years. And now their pensions are in danger of being cut again, and that is simply indecent. That's really indecent. Older people, who are no longer able to improve their income by working, who have been promised a stable pension, are now rewarded by the Prime Minister with 1% purchasing power, but if they are soon cut back on their pensions, they will again decline significantly. Get those discounts off the table! I don't really care how you do that. You can do that, we have often said that; my colleague Leon de Jong made a proposal last week by adjusting the interest rate. There are several ways to do that, but take those discounts off the table. Give the elders what she's due and what she's promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u43	Like Mr Wilders, I do not have so much with all the pluses and minuses and purchasing power cards. I actually liked his idea of ABN AMRO. I'm curious to hear the Prime Minister's response tomorrow. But Mr Wilders usually has another nice find to solve the problems he raises of purchasing power and so on. According to the PVV, this is a departure from the Netherlands from the European Union, the next. Is Mr Wilders following what is happening in Britain? They've been having trouble getting the Brexit done for a couple of years now. The Boris Johnson cabinet recently outlined what a departure from the European Union does with the situation of people at home: a shortage of fresh food and an increase in food prices of hundreds of euros. The solution of Mr Wilders, a departure from the Netherlands from the European Union, therefore strengthens precisely the problems he has just spoken about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u44	First of all, I am very pleased that a chairman of a coalition party supports my idea of returning that €1,000 to the families. I like that. Maybe we can table a motion together on that. As far as I'm concerned, your name may be the first underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u45	I see some sweat droplets on Prime Minister Rutte's forehead, so it could just get a majority. Thank you for that. Then I think you also had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u46	Yeah, about the nexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u47	The nexit, yes. We are still very much in favour of a nexit. I think Europe... The European Union, I must say. The European Union has shown that this is all we have to deal with. Let me give you a few examples. We all have directives for immigration policy, so that we can no longer guard our borders and let everyone come in. But also the pensions we were just talking about. Do you know why these pensions are being taken? That is because we no longer have our own monetary policy in our own hands. That is because the European Central Bank in Frankfurt is trying to get the Italians and the Greeks to buy cheap crap from the banks there, which means that interest is low and our voters, our people, are vaporizing their savings and their pensions are being cut. That's because of Europe. This cabinet and the European Union prefer the people who do not comply with the rules, who shatter their money in Italy and Greece rather than helping our own elders. What kind of situation is that? Then we have a third example...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u48	Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u49	If you ask the question, you will have to wait for the answer. Everything related to nitrogen, including the Natura 2000 directive that drives everyone crazy... CO, nitrogen... Mr President, I do not even know what it is, but I do know that it brings with it a lot of misery. We can no longer build houses, we can no longer build roads; all European rules. What would the Netherlands look like if we could build houses again, if we could close our borders, if we could reconnect pensions for our elderly people. That's what a nexit means. Beautiful! Morning!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u50	A well-known riedel by Mr Wilders, but I would like to tell him what a nexit actually means. That's not something I made up, it's just from reports from the British Government, for example the Yellowhammer report. A large increase in the energy bill of consumers and businesses. A shortage of medication, resulting in disease outbreaks and thousands of deaths. Less fresh food. An increase in food prices: €757 per year more for groceries for an average British family. The most vulnerable groups are hit hardest. This is the result of the departure of a country from the European Union. So that's what you want for the Dutchman. Mr Wilders once had a report on what a nexit does. At the presentation he said: it takes some getting used to. It takes some getting used to? Mr. Wilders, $757 a year pay more for your groceries? That's not getting used to, that's disastrous for the families you claim to stand up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u51	One informative question: was what you just read from the United Kingdom, or was that the government agreement of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u52	Of course, such a joke is fun, but Mr Wilders does not respond to my question in substance. On the basis of reports from the British Government, I present to him the disastrous consequences that the Brexit has for ordinary families in that country. Mr Wilders also wants this for Dutch families. When Mr Wilders says 'you should get used to it', he actually says to Dutch people: I want the Netherlands from the European Union; I amputate your lower leg, but then everything gets better and you walk quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u53	With a nextit the sun shines in the Netherlands. Of course Brexit is not an example to write about home. That is not illogical either, because, on the one hand, the beginning was negotiated by former Prime Minister May, who himself had voted against the Brexit. So the British started the negotiations with a prime minister who actually didn't think there should be a Brexit. Then Europe, the European Union, and it wanted to set an example for all those other countries in the European Union, 'don't even think about leaving the European Union immediately'. So we make a deal as difficult, annoying and difficult as possible, with which we shoot ourselves in the foot, so we immediately come up with a hard Brexit, which is indeed not good for the Netherlands. But if there had been better negotiations, if not Mrs May had negotiated, but someone who from the outset thought that the Brexit was good from the British side, if there had been negotiators on the European side who had said 'we are making a fair deal; we are making a deal that is good for us, and we are not going to set an example for other countries that are afraid to leave the European Union', this would not have happened with this deal. If we are going to do that, if next time there is a Wilders I cabinet, let us say so; I am sure that you are happy with that, that says 'we are going to leave the European Union', then I assure you that this can be done in such a way that we can become a sovereign country again, that we will again be the boss of our own money and across our own borders and that we are nevertheless trading with the countries within the European Union. We're not building a wall, but we're gonna work with them. But outside of political union, because that's where it went wrong, Mr. Jetten. In the fifties, the Netherlands was one of the founding fathers of the European Union. In the fifties it began as an economic partnership. Everyone had a profit. Everyone saw what was positive, but in the decades that followed, an economic union became a political union, which began to interfere with everything. She interfered with our legislation, with which we brought in our country, with the level of our pensions. She interfered with everything. We need to get rid of that, and the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u54	A very long answer to a simple question, namely: does Mr Wilders want to increase the cost of groceries for Dutch families by €757 per year? He didn't answer that. With a nexit, Mr Wilders chooses to plunge the Netherlands into the same chaos as is happening in Great Britain. He should actually face the fact that this European cooperation is a saving for our sovereignty in a changing world, in which the Americans, the Russians and the Chinese are playing with our future. Mr Wilders, just by staying in Europe, we can protect our external borders and make it better for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u55	We certainly want to stay in Europe. We only want to leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u56	That's interesting, because I always thought the PVV wanted a hard nexit. That's nice in itself, because then we can get rid of it. Mr Wilders said what the British actually went through, but he did it a little faster. He said, no, we do want to have a relationship. But what do you want to keep? Do you want to stay in the customs union? Or do you say anything can happen if the Court in Luxembourg has nothing to say about us anymore? I'm curious about that, because then there might be less left. Then people don't have to be so scared, but they don't have to be so tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u57	No, we want out. We want to leave the European Union. We have said it before: we do want to have access to the internal market and we have to negotiate for that, but we want to be outside the European Union. There are examples of countries that do so. The following was always blamed on us. The Prime Minister always said that if you do that, you'll have to pay for it, but you can't decide and you'll still be part of it. I think there's another way. I'm not defeatist. I think that's possible. The most important thing for us is that we are no longer a member of that European Union, which means that we are no longer able to define our own borders, and that we are no longer a member of that euro area, which is mainly used as a transfer union. If we let that go and can work together, I don't think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u58	Okay, you can. But a few things Mr Wilders mentioned are going to happen. All those countries that have such a regime and are in the market...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u59	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u60	...do indeed have to comply with product requirements. That must be met, otherwise you will not be able to enter the market. If there is an argument, the Court decides in Luxembourg and not the Dutch judge. I myself experienced the following in the JHA Council: you are invited as a country and there is a cozy chat, but at some point you are kindly asked to leave the Chamber because then the real decisions are taken. Afterwards, you'll hear what you're dealing with. I can, but I don't know if it'll make you more sovereign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u61	You know, I'm not saying it's all like this before. I think we can negotiate, I think we can show our teeth, I think the Netherlands is much more important than they think. We are with our Rotterdam port the port of transit to Germany and the hinterland in Europe. We will remain so if we leave the European Union. Countries have an interest in doing good business with us and making a good deal. They'd shoot in their own foot if they didn't. Again, the most important thing is that we become a sovereign country again. Many people at home must realize that we do not now have the key to our own front door. We don't decide who gets to come into our house as a guest anymore and when the guests have to go, which is very normal at home. We gave that key to Brussels. We also gave our wallet to Brussels. We gave our pensions to Brussels. Again, why are pensions being cut in the near future? Because, in this case, the European Union is keeping the euro area, Frankfurt, the European Central Bank, interest rates low because they want to buy up those crap papers in Italy and Greece. Without the European Union, without Frankfurt, savings would have been worth something, interest would have been higher and pensioners would simply have had a linked pension. I choose the Dutch, not the Luxembourgers and the Greeks!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u63	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I told you, the Netherlands is becoming increasingly unrecognizable. We've imported a crime wave. The Dutch become a minority in their own country. Neighborhoods are being taken over. The Moroccan drug criminals in Amsterdam are the heroes. Or take Rotterdam, where the thugs honk around the city when they have a party and where the thugs hit a cop who addresses them, by force. Mr. Chairman. The price tag on that is huge. We, as PVV, had ten years ago calculated what the mass immigration of non-Western immigrants cost us. The answer was 7.2 billion. But the net influx of non-Western immigrants from 25,000 to 50,000 people was then assumed. By now, that influx has doubled. This means that immigration of non-Western immigrants costs the Dutchman 15 billion euros each year. Those are huge amounts. We could have spent that money on us, on our elders, on our children or on our own country. I repeat once more: close those borders and be sovereign again. Madam President. Maybe I can ask the Prime Minister one more time, as I did last year: finally send those Syrians back! I asked the same question last year, but the Prime Minister didn't want to answer it. Send them back! Their land is safe in large parts. We are now in the phase of getting permanent residence permits every year. That means you won't be able to get them out, while the country itself needs its own people to build the country. That is very good for Syria and that is also very good for us. All people who have status in the Netherlands, not only the Syrians, currently own 80,000 social rental homes. 80,000 social rental homes for people who have been asylum seekers and now have status. If we were to do something about that and give those homes back to the Dutch, it would have solved the problems in the housing market in a single blow to a large extent. Mr. Chairman. I told you before: the Netherlands will not get better if we import more Islam. We saw it in The Hague, where three pedestrians were stabbed in the neck. We saw it on Amsterdam Centraal, where tourists were on the ground fighting for their lives. We saw it in Utrecht, where a young woman of 19 and three men of 28, 49 and 74 were shot by an "Allahoe akbar" screaming Muslim terrorist in the attack on a tram. The Chamber has also moved away, has not yet had a debate on this either. That's unbelievable. Those who did make some noise were some Muslims. Not to condemn the terror, no, they went wild on the man who helped a victim during the tram attack with danger for his own life, with danger for his own life. We were able to read it all in the paper and see it on television. The man was an absolute hero; during the shots that fell, he helped people who threatened to become victims and put them to safety. But because he was also telling the truth on television, namely that the perpetrator called Allahoe akbar, he got it's unbelievable......................................................................................................................................... People thought his cancer mother should be shot, that his whole family should get cancer. I'm not going to repeat it all. I'm still sick of reading it, but he got instead of a ribbon from this Prime Minister, the wind in front of people who have nothing to do with our country. We imported it! Mr. Chairman. We must put our own people back on one: the Dutch first. Our country, our money, again for the Dutch. Our homes again for our own people. Our cops are gonna take the thugs down and kick them off the street again. Our cities that once again become the model of primeval Dutch cosiness. Our culture of Black Piet and Christmas instead of the Ramadan and the halal slaughter. The Dutch deserve a prime minister who puts Dutch people back on one level, who first has Dutch people on his forehead. Away from mediocrity, on to a beautiful future for our beautiful country. So, and I say this in all kindness, go do something else, Mr. Rutte. Take a nice trip around the world, find a nice girlfriend, buy a dog, go waves. You can choose, you can do it all. Do what you like. I mean it sincerely: I give it to you with all my heart. But please leave the Netherlands alone for once, leave the Netherlands alone for once. Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here for almost 1.5 million PVV voters. They chose me and my colleagues. Every day that I am a representative of the people here, I will defend the interests of my constituents, along with my great colleagues in my group. So I'm gonna tell anyone who doesn't want to, you can rule out the PVV, ignore, rattle, demonize, you can send the D.A. after me or get the D.A. to get me convicted, but you won't get me small, never ever. Every day we will fight with heart and soul for our ideals, against Islamization, for the common man in the Netherlands, for our freedom, for the Netherlands. And no one, but no one at all will stop us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u64	I had Mr Wilders' first part of his speech dealt with me. I want to respond to that. Mr Wilders would certainly interrupt me on that, but I do not think it is proper to wait for that. He kept his argument about his lawsuit clean here. That's a tough story. I want to explain my struggle. Mr Wilders is not right in saying that, but I would like to have said it anyway. Mr Wilders has opinions and statements that I understand, about serious accusations, and there are also documents on this subject that I also have questions about. There is a lecture by Mr Wilders, then you have a lecture by the Public Prosecutor and the judge will judge, so it goes in a rule of law. They are natural serious allegations, and if some or all of them are true, that is serious and we will talk about that here. But I am concerned about exactly what Mr Wilders says, what he fears, or what he is convinced of, namely that there has been political interference in a court of law. I have a feeling that we will also be asked to do so if we have such a debate here in the Chamber pending the trial, without the judge first judging the facts. That is a struggle I cannot come out of and why I will not go on supporting a debate before the ruling is made, although I understand that this can be very unsatisfactory for Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u65	Let me begin by thanking Mr Dijkhoff for taking the trouble to respond now. That's what's good for him. Thank you very much for that. For me, it's important that he understood that too, in order to do it before the verdict. We have now seen what happened before; that is not even an opinion. You have been able to see for yourself what is written in black and white, by the Minister who sent it to the Chamber, but also by the documents made public, promoted by the Court or by RTL. Then you already see a lot of things that just can't. As far as I'm concerned, they're already enough to stop the case. But, yeah, you don't know what the judge's doing. In a normal trial, I would understand what Mr Dijkhoff is saying: fun or not, a trial has started; we first see what comes out and then we do it. But that's exactly what went wrong with me. I would ask Mr Dijkhoff to think very carefully about this. For if I am condemned, if we are immediately investigating and having a debate, and it turns out that this is also enough for you and other parties in the country and in this Chamber to say 'this is not right', 'this must be investigated' or 'there must be a survey or an investigation', or do I know anything about it or it is not even necessary, because it is enough to judge it, then I do not have a substantive chance anymore. Cassatie does not offer any substantive possibility. This is my last chance. The court is the last chance for a substantive judgment on a case. What is now there is enough. Once again, Mr Dijkhoff, I respect the fact that you are standing there, but you would not want to have on your conscience that immediately after the debate, after the new WED documents, you will examine whether anything turns out that you too feel that it was not right and that this process is not right. That's quite separate from what you think of my statements. Then I can't do anything. Then there's already a judgment. Then there's already a verdict. Then the Supreme Court says, "Good afternoon, convicted." I hope you'll think about that one more time. It would be great if you would support my request for a debate before the verdict. If you don't, it's not gonna do me any good at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u66	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u67	Mr. Chairman. Before I start my real input, I would like to dwell on the shocking murder this morning in Amsterdam. You're not gonna be a lawyer to defend the crime. You become a lawyer to ensure a fair trial for everyone in a rule of law, to make sure that happens and that you play your part in it. If people who are lawyers are now involved or seen as part of such an organization and are killed for it... I know I'm taking an advance on the facts now, but I don't think there's a lot of alternative interpretations in people's heads right now when one is looking for a 16 to 20-year-old in a hoody. Usually, things like that don't happen by accident. I would like to express my support for those who are close to us, my fellow Members, but also, of course, to anyone who is practicing this profession and who is now wondering what kind of country he is in. I think it is up to us, to the Chamber, to give an answer to that at a later stage, when we have the facts, to accept that criminal law is there to punish individual offenders after an individual act, to see that it is not the most appropriate way to go alone to fight crime, that it simply undermines, undermines and undermines the authority of the State, the authority of democracy, that it is not just the person who pulls the trigger who is responsible for the actions but everyone who is simply seen as part of that business model, that ultimately everyone who earns a euro should be held accountable, that it is up to us to see what restrictions we impose on the enforcers now in dealing with them and what path we should take, and that this should be broader than the criminal law on which it is subsequently judged. Mr. Chairman. I'm originally from Eindhoven. That means a few things. Then you celebrate carnival, then you're a little hard to understand for others, and then you're dating Philips. My grandfather worked there in the warehouse. He never worked anywhere else. He received his golden jubilee watch and retired there as well. Philips took care of his employees and his surroundings. It wasn't just "paying wages and thanking you for your work." It was also to make sure that the families had a good life, that all the good people who lived and worked there had a good life. Sports was also healthy, so that's where PSV came in. It's no secret: my whole family is a supporter of PSV, except for the one uncle who worked there all his life. He remained loyal to Eindhoven, the blue and white workers' club. He was only red in the voting booth. My grandfather wasn't just busy in the warehouse. He had ten kids. That's a big deal. You have to imagine: warehouse worker and ten children, who still have to go to school, how are you going to pay for that? Well, you couldn't then either. But that's what Philips had the Van der Willigen Fund for, which allowed my mother to go to school. The demand was that you get at least a 7, although my mother now thinks that that demand was made up by my grandmother herself. But whatever it is, it worked. And Philips grew. It grew harder than its own environment workers had. So you got labour migration. Weird people came all the way from Drenthe. They had to live somewhere. So as a company, you had a responsibility in that. The Drents Village was built. Not all Drents who went to Eindhoven worked at Philips themselves, but the thought was: where they work, they have to be eaten. So Drenthe market merchants also moved to Eindhoven, for a better future. It was my other grandmother's family. It's been getting used to. People were different. They spoke differently. They had a different belief. Integration went through work, school and arose when there was something to do. When my grandpa met my grandmother, faith was a problem. Not for my grandmother, she was so well integrated by now that she wanted to become a Catholic anyway. But her grandmother wouldn't allow it. For her, people of another faith didn't have to die. She wasn't a salafist, but becoming a papal was a sin too much. As much as it must have been at that time, wishing the death of other believers was already unacceptable, in a otherwise much less free Netherlands. What we see now, what Salafists argue and print in children's heads, is no retrograde; it is much more than that. It's unacceptable. I have already said about this last week and just now in an interruption, so I am going to be brief. I want us to be able to ban that kind of thing. I look forward to the law of the Cabinet. No matter how blunt it was in my grandmother's time, time did solve it. Grandma's grandmother died, and my grandmother converted. Then she married my grandfather, who as a roofer had placed the cock on the church tower. In all these years between then and now, much has changed, also in Eindhoven. The band loosened up a bit. The company came piece by piece away from the environment, but remained important. I've never been in service with Philips myself, but I've been cleaning Philips' buildings for hours, days, years. In the now very hip Strijp-S you could only enjoy yourself with stairs, halls and toilets. Like most of my cousins, I learned what hard work is there. So Philips didn't just have great meaning for those who worked there. And not only those who worked for themselves hurt change. That head office is no longer in Eindhoven, which is in Amsterdam. Sometimes you read news now that makes you think that Philips from now on has drifted a long way away from that Philips society and doesn't fit in as well as before. And, but maybe that's a smaller thing: Philips isn't even ahead of PSV's shirt anymore. What it says now is perhaps just as beautiful: Brainport Eindhoven. Much has changed, but I think we can still keep up the good things about this Philips society: reciprocity between business and environment, between people, and the realization that you are only doing well when things are going well with others. Then you can say, "Nice, that nostalgia, that homesickness for a Philips society, but that's not how it works, boy, the world has changed." The latter is certainly true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u68	First of all, thank you. I think it is very nice to get to know Mr Dijkhoff's family a little better. Especially that uncle, for whom we all have a great deal of sympathy, who saw it a bit sharper. But those ten kids and this Brainport guy didn't come for nothing. That wasn't just from the companies. We have the most important political debate of the year here. One of the exciting questions, at least for me but also, I think, for many of us, is: will it be a ritual dance with stories that you know, with some anecdotes about the family? That's what I'm gonna do. Or are we gonna change things too, accomplish things? The question is already very concrete, so I know a bit how to listen to the rest of the speech. There is a budget surplus, at least that is what the cabinet is proposing, and there is a huge teacher deficit. Those ten kids might be sent home now or only a year later. My question is: is the VVD prepared to work with the Labour Party on additional expenses to combat the teacher shortage in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u69	Two things are asked here at the same time. Mr Asscher assumes that money will solve the shortage of teachers. I am pleased that the cabinet has achieved a great deal in this area in recent years in terms of workload and teacher salaries. A collective agreement was agreed with an increase in wages which was the highest of all working groups in that year, almost 8.9% according to Elsevier and perhaps a little more. I also hear that people want a lot of colleagues in particular, but that is not necessarily a reason for finance. We have more squeezes in other sectors, so I would like to ask the cabinet what the limitation is that there are not enough people now. Mr Asscher says that this is money. If that's what it is, I want to look at it, but I find it too easy to say with every problem that you solve it with more money. I am not ready to share Mr Asscher's means immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u70	Money is not the solution, but money is the problem. I think it's silly to say that these teachers have had a huge pay jump. Then look at Philips' boss who said he could explain perfectly well that a wage jump you can win an Olympic medal for was normal, and the employees didn't get it. No, money is part of the problem. My question is also a political one. If you had thought it was necessary, it might have already been there, but my question is also a political one: are you prepared with the Labour Party to make it possible for more money to be made available to solve this problem? I immediately acknowledge that it will not be gone tomorrow, but it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u71	When we hear from concrete cases that more money solves the problem, I am prepared to look into it. Mr Asscher's intervention on the pay gap at Philips was one of the messages that cast doubt on whether they still hold that old society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u72	I appreciate that, because earlier the VVD had one of those videos that was about whether teachers should earn even more, where it was like they were the grabs. They've been demonstrating to provide good education for all our children. There was an invitation in your answer when there were concrete cases. Sure. The pay gap between primary and secondary education makes it easier for them to opt for primary education. I'm not just indicating that, but the educational associations and the teachers themselves. We can solve that now. The money is there and it's a choice we can make now. In secondary special education they are part of the collective primary education, so they earn less than their colleagues in secondary education who may sometimes have a less difficult job. Those are problems we can solve today. My political question is, also because I suspect that you will be looking somewhere for support for the plans, that is also part of your work: are you prepared to make additional expenditure possible for this essential problem that threatens our future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u73	So that is what the question is whether these expenditures are needed to solve the problems, or whether they are helping at all. I am also told by government officials that the money is not the problem, but other things. Then I hope we can address it in a targeted way. It therefore depends on the analysis of the cabinet which is now most needed in this area. In addition, there are still legitimate wishes and differences. It is a matter of prioritizing when it comes to equalizing wages between primary and non-primary, but for me it is first of all about whether we solve it, or whether we simply transfer the problems to other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u74	Mr Dijkhoff hears from administrators that money is not the problem. You shouldn't listen to the rulers, you should listen to the parents who get letters at home that their child doesn't go to school with 4 years, but with 5! You should listen to the teachers who don't call in sick because they know the rest of the team will fall over. You should listen to the children who are sent home, to what the four-day school week means for children who come from a less good neighborhood in Eindhoven. You have to listen to that and then you know that extra money is needed. It is incomprehensible that you do not make that choice with a budget like this. If you don't make it, listen to what other political parties think is important. You're looking for support, I assume, because you've lost the majority. Here it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u75	I am also always prepared to do business for support when I may not be convinced that it solves the problems, but then the question arises as to where the problem lies. Mr Asscher makes his own wish for more money very simple, but I fear it is a little more complex. Also with more money we can hear the same complaints next year if this does not lead to a reduction in working pressure or more staff. There's still money that won't be bet, let's take a look at that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u76	I also agree with Mr Asscher that we need more money for education, but I also agree with Mr Dijkhoff that there are a number of other organisational problems that we must also address. That as an attempt to form a small bridge here, since we also have some seats in the First Chamber, as not unknown. I have two points in relation to the story about Eindhoven. The first is that I share the view that it's actually very beautiful.You also have around Enschede some of those places that enterprising families often, at least companies have done a lot in all kinds of social tasks and that we should have that more in the Netherlands. It's been mentioned by your party before. But if you look at the last nine years, you can see that the collective burden pressure has risen from about 35% to almost 40% and that the government's share of the economy is increasing, precisely under a VVD prime minister, and that therefore that participatory society or whatever you want to call it, that society in which citizens and companies take responsibility, is getting further and further away. Can we therefore expect criticism from you on precisely that VVD policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u77	Oh, sure, but I think I have shown many times over the past year not to be too shy to criticize things that have gone wrong, even if we have worked on them ourselves. Only in recent years, of course, we have also had to deal with a crisis. Then we can also analyse the cause of this, but it is more difficult to create more space in times of counterwind to maintain collective provision and relieve burdens. That is why I am very pleased that we are now in a situation, and that is why we have worked very hard, also by our party, to ensure that public finances are so in order now, that we can say: okay, thank you that the public debt has fallen so far, that it can be reduced at a slower pace, now we are going to be able to do extra burden relief for people so that the space that Mr Baudet also cherishes can get more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u78	I do not see where the government is going to be structurally smaller, where bureaucracy is being structurally cut and where there really is room for companies, for families, for people to spend their money themselves. I don't see that in the cabinet plans. If you do, I would like to hear it, but otherwise I would like to hear criticism from you of these VVD plans for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u79	I welcome the fact that, in addition to the plans under the coalition agreement, this year we can do 3 billion additional reliefs, for example, that the top rate has been below 50% for the first time since the Second World War, which is a bit of a liberal idea fix, is a bit of a totem pole, but it stands still, in the sense that you do not have a rate that takes away more than half of it and that we can reduce the tax on profits, especially in the case of the lower profits up to the first two tonnes. I think that's a good sign. I wish I hadn't had a crisis. I would have preferred that in the years before we were allowed to participate again, we would not have had any sovereign debt that had to be repaired. Then we could have started creating space sooner. Now we had to solve the big problems, also with the previous cabinet where the PvdA showed its responsibility. Now comes a time to reap the benefits and I am glad that we are investing in things with the government that people also need if you are going to cut into the government and halve your care, then don't think that will lead to a lot of applause and at the same time we can relieve burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u80	You mention a number of things. That's how it goes all the time. There are a number of things where there are a few less burdens and a number of things where premiums and costs go up again, such as the energy bill. That figure of the collective burden pressure helps to keep an overview. So on some points people have a little more to spend and the costs go down and on others the costs go up a bit, but the overall burden burden, the collective burden pressure has just risen tremendously from 35% to 40%. You agree with me that it should go down, don't you? But we just don't see that in the Millions Note and in the government plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u81	I agree with that, but you can't get the collective burden pressure down by yelling at it to get it down. Then you have to take concrete measures. So you don't have to spend anymore and then you can reduce the burden. Unless you have to have economic growth and keep spending at the same level. So the measure of whether it goes well by reducing the collective burden burden, you will have to take very concrete steps here, with 3 billion tax relief in income tax, with a lower profit tax and with the removal of expenditure. At the same time, I also see a wish that the things we do through the government are cherished by many people. I see little need for privatising education and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u82	I do know two things that cost a lot of money, where there is a huge amount of subsidy going to, and which actually cost us our entire economy. These are the Climate Law, which your party was in favour of and which you have introduced. We believe that it will cost us even 1,000 billion over the next few decades, and massive immigration. Because it won't be stopped either. I checked it out. The net amount involved is almost 300,000 non-Western immigrants, 100,000 Syrian status holders; so people who actually stayed in the Netherlands. They just have to go back; they can go back. They occupy Dutch houses and all of them. These are examples of ever-expanding total costs that we all have to bear. It's very concrete. You're implying I'm screaming. I don't think I'm screaming at all. It's just arguments. This is very specific VVD policy that is not good and that people don't want it either. That's what the polls have shown. That is why, of course, the referendum has been abolished, so that people cannot express their opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u83	That's a lot of associations. Let me start with the Climate Act. It's not like if you keep repeating that 1,000 billion, it's gonna be more true. The justification for this is lacking and I do not see it in the prediction of the people who pass on the costs on our behalf. I have also heard you say that the heat fund increases the burden. It doesn't. It allows you to make an investment that you don't have to pay out of your own pocket, and then reap the benefits, the benefits, of the costs that you limit year by year. So there are also opportunities in the climate transition. I think that it will turn out afterwards that the countries that have waited the longest have been more affected economically, apart from the argument, I know that you are of the opinion that it may not be entirely unwise to make any contribution to limiting global warming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u84	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u85	So this is exactly an example of what I mean: a heat fund. Then you think: oh, the government just puts money in something, people don't have to spend it themselves. That money's coming from somewhere. It's tax money. That's what keeps the government growing. That's exactly the wrong idea. It is the government that comes up with funds, subsidies and so on. Delete the Planning Office for the Environment that made these quasicalculations, which the cabinet then responds to. Because that says during an investment: one day we will earn that back, hopefully, perhaps, possibly. If you look at public spending that way, the government will continue to grow. Then that money doesn't stay with the people who deserve it. They may get it back indirectly, because then they have a heat pump, but they didn't want that heat pump at all and it doesn't work at all. That money would be much better spent in a different way. There's the mistake of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u86	Let us stick to a political difference of opinion, otherwise I will have to unravel it completely, find out where the error of opinion is not and rebuild the reasoning. I simply disagree with Mr Baudet. Look, if you can make an investment yourself for your private situation, she'll already be profitable. But there are also people who can't do that. This has to do with the fact that your costs may fall, but that the time limit on which you have less costs each year is long. But in the end, it's gonna make more money than the investment you have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u87	The only reason for this investment seems to be that the subsidies that are implicit and explicit are often not included and excise duties and taxes on gas etc. are deducted from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u88	Mr. Baudet, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u89	If you reason that way, you can make everything profitable. But that doesn't really make it profitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u90	For your story, this means that we have to abolish all taxes first. Then you'll have to cover that first. Then I wish you good luck afterwards, but then you are totally dependent on the erratic market prices. You can't make stable predictions about that. One attack in Saudi Arabia and oil prices are rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u91	No, Mr. Baudet, Mr. Klaver may now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u92	I actually just liked it when we went to Saudi Arabia and oil prices. I hear Mr Baudet say that he would like to speak for a moment. No way! Mr. Chairman. I enjoyed the first part of Mr Dijkhoff's contribution. It shows that he's been thinking about how our economy stands and what we need to do for the future. I notice that he has been thinking about whether capitalism, as we know it now, is perhaps too raw and whether we should perhaps change things in that. That's to be praised in him. I think I see a line; I think this has actually been going on all year round. This spring, for example, he said: we need to do more for the middle class, for the ordinary people in this country, so if we want to relieve the burden, we can say to the dentist that he is not going backwards, but that he is not getting anything. I appreciate that thought, but it's also about what's in the cabinet's plans. Then I see those dentists are still getting more than 2%. What's with the choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u93	I thought that the coalition agreement was a good thing, that the coalition agreement makes it a good relief in full terms, that we go to two discs and that the top rate is also below 50%, as I said earlier. Those were the agreements we already had; they're in it. Then what do we do with the 3 billion extra this summer? We'll focus it entirely on the middle class. I have nothing against people who make more money. I give it to them with all my heart. I'll let them pay more taxes. You have two rates: one around 37% and one around 49% and more. I think that's fair. I therefore believe that we have made a clear choice for the middle class in the new possibilities we had for load relief, on top of what we could already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u94	I can see that. Don't get me wrong; I see what this cabinet is trying to do. But Mr Dijkhoff spoke very clearly about that dentist. He also mentioned an amount: a ton. People who earn more than a tonne do not have to go backwards, but do not have to go forward. That money really needs to go to the teachers, the people who work in care and the people who work at Philips. But the cabinet still chooses to make the group of people who earn more than a ton much better, almost as much as the middle class. And I don't get it. I think it is very good that Mr Dijkhoff is thinking about the new economy: that we should redistribute prosperity in the Netherlands, that perhaps we should not focus on those who earn more than a tonne. But the Cabinet does. This involves about 0.5 billion. That is also money that could have gone to Philips' employees or that we could have put into education. Why the words and thinking about the new economy, but not the actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u95	I can see those actions, but Mr Klaver wants to move on. That is good, because then it is clear that there are still fundamental differences between our parties. The people in the middle are having a hard time, so let us now focus on reducing the burden, but that is not the fault of those who earn more. I don't want to paint that image. I'm not getting along very well with that kind of rhetoric. At some point this becomes partly symbolic, but it does not yield much. Suppose you put the top rate at 55%, although I don't know exactly what's in the counter-budget, and you're gonna charge people over a ton and a half extra. It's not like this is gonna get you a bunch of money that you can do a lot with, even if it's gonna get you something. I think it is fair to see where the bottleneck is, namely in the middle class. That is what we are focusing on now, but I do not think that you should take measures that will reduce the burden on those who earn more. I think it's fair at all that you don't have an income tax rate above 50%, but that's where it was. If that had not been the case, perhaps you could have said: 49% is neat. But there it was. I know this is something that lives especially in my circle, but that doesn't mean I don't stand up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u96	I understand that Mr Dijkhoff has not yet fully taken up our counter-budget. Forgive him. There are very interesting proposals in that. I commend Mr Dijkhoff for the movement I see him making. I see that he distances himself from the VVD policy of the past few years when it was chosen for large business. Then it was chosen to favour the richest people in this country the most. I see him doing that in words. I think they're sincere. But if there is a budget in which the highest incomes get half a billion, then I note that there is no action following Mr Dijkhoff's words. That is where my problem lies, and that is why I would like to go along with Mr Dijkhoff. That half billion can be used for the people who work at Philips, for the teachers in education and for care. We can spend it in so many different ways that are much better and that fits Mr Dijkhoff's story. I am afraid, but it is not enough that Mr Dijkhoff sees that the times are changing, that people no longer take the hard right-wing sound, and that he takes the tone, but not the actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u97	I think Mr Klaver will be disappointed if he expects me to take things over and take positions that are not based on my own analyses. We are not giving the money, we are taking less, because it is a tax reduction. I try to change the basic idea of a free liberal market economy, of capitalism, where creativity can flourish and where the prosperity of all of us is greatest, with a good market master who takes care of the socially desired outcome, so that it works for everyone again, especially for the middle class. I'm not trying to replace it with left-wing ideologies that didn't work before. There will therefore continue to be differences between our parties. We have a coalition agreement, fine. Then there was room for extra load relief and that goes to the middle class. That is exactly what I think I said: the next time we are going to have a meeting, because we could already do something now, and I am aiming it at another group. What we agreed on will continue, because it is not so that it was not necessary or just.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u98	I can remember Mr Dijkhoff's first political considerations, in which he actually told us that we should dare to listen to each other, that we should not put each other in a corner and frame. That's exactly what he's trying to do right now. "Look, your left-wing ideas didn't work before." I'm not trying to turn this into an ideological battle, I'm just trying to understand what the VVD is doing. When I read your quotes, when I read what you yourself said... You say we need to focus, we need to focus more on the dentist than on the dentist. This also means that you have to dare to say to high incomes that you are not going backwards, but you are not going forward. And they're getting better. That's another choice. The rhetoric you choose doesn't match the actions I see. And from a party that claims to be so forceful, I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u99	Again, I just explained what I'm trying to do here. I am also saying what I am not doing, which Mr Klaver will certainly be disappointed about and where voters will also see sufficient difference between his party and mine. It's exactly what I said back then. We have a reduction in the burden in the coalition agreement; I think it is fair; it is for everyone, whatever income you have. And the next time I can do that, thank God I'll focus it entirely on the middle incomes. That's exactly what I said back then. That's exactly what we're doing now. I would rather watch how we make sure that we are all more prosperous and have an economy that needs that kind of correction less, because it already works better for the middle class in itself. That's what the rest of my story is about. I'd rather see that than start building another battle between groups, while the people who earn more really don't sit on the couch all the time thinking of people who earn less and say: Oh, that's great, we're getting it right. They're not working on each other. So you just need to see what's fair. The coalition agreement makes it a fair two-sided system with no tariff above 50%. I'm proud of that. And an extra load relief that is possible after my remarks, we also have it completely focused on the middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u100	I would like to refer to what Mr Dijkhoff has just said: public finances are now in better shape, so there can also be a little more burden reduction. And indeed, if things are getting better economically, it makes sense that you are also looking at relief and that you are trying to increase spending on public services. My question is actually about the measure, because the VVD was also always the party that made a bit of a counterweight when you said: it's better now, spend it. The VVD said: "Wait a minute, we have to be a little careful; both in the case of headwind and in the case of wind, we have to take it easy and keep some buffers for the future." Is that still the line of the VVD? How do I see that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u101	That was also a pretty dominant sound from us, because it had run out of spigates. But it is true that we have not reduced public debt as an end in itself. That is why I said that the pace with which we reduce the debt could be lower now that we are in safer waters. Then you should also think about the people's wallet. If we continue until we have zero public debt, it will take a very long time before, in addition to the reserves that we collectively have through the government that we need to make healthy, we can rebuild the reserves of people in their own families and households. So that's where we sit, well, let's say flatter, as a member of my party told me, how much percent do we pay off before we wait and see that we don't sit down and the money is spent on stupid things? Are we going to give room for relief and sensible investment at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u102	But that was also what Mr. Dijkhoff's red uncle always said: it's going to be better economically, so good spending. Then there was always the reaction: but beware, for there is a moment ahead of us, the 1973 crisis, the financial crisis of 2008 which could once again result in a huge increase in public debt. And then you have to make drastic cuts. So try to get ahead of that. We used to have salmon standards. And that red uncle said, "We swim in the money, you don't need salmon norm at all." But then the reaction of the VVD was: we have to do that. My question remains whether we should not learn much more from a country like Sweden that is actually saying: make sure that you bring that public debt down much further, and they even have 25% as a percentage of what we earn with each other, so as to have a buffer for bad times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u103	There are two ways to bring your government debt rate down. That's redemption and growth. We haven't had a choice between those two in the last ten years. If you weren't gonna pay off; well, you couldn't grow out. It was a crisis too, so it was ticking harder. In the beginning, you had to go through your reserves. I think that we are doing that now, and we are still doing that at a point where we have done a lot of work and that you can benefit from it, not by spending everything. But that there must also be room now by investing in your economy in the coming decades, so that you can also reduce your government debt by percentage through growth. That's two methods. One correction on the family and my red uncle. I was talking about my red grandpa. I have to report that because otherwise I do not have my uncles, because of red uncles I really have a lot more than one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u104	In this way, I am increasingly curious about Mr Dijkhoff's family!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u105	You're stuck with the wrong guy!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u106	I get that impression too, yeah! I would like to return to the beginning of your speech, because I liked it. The story about Philips. In my opinion, this was also about the reciprocity that a company like Philips felt towards its employees. But let's go to today. Recently, there was a hearing here in the Chamber. That's where someone from Philips was sitting, the warden. Then it was about paying your fair share, paying income tax, paying taxes at all. Then he shrugged his shoulders a little bit: yes, they didn't eat that much. When we talk about reciprocity, we have recently seen a huge increase in shareholder benefits, but hardly any increase in workers' wages. What does Mr Dijkhoff think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u107	I don't like that development. Of course, that's the whole exercise, or the whole thinking no matter what I do. You have ideals, images of how it works, how an economy like that works. At middle level you can see that there by the policy... Let me give you another example: then I come to this one. The fact that you have tax policy here to bring headquarters that take a lot of jobs is top. If you see in practice that at least as often it is used by companies that completely cut themselves up and put a particle here with a mailbox and a part-timer to just offset their losses from the world here and not share any of the profits, yes, it wasn't meant to, then it's wrong. That is now being addressed by this cabinet. If you look at the order of things, I'd rather have a company that says: at profit first our employees, because without them that profit doesn't. That you put money into their education as well, that you put money into innovation there I'll come up with some R&D and R&D, and not only research to put your current product line in the market again but also make better things for the future. I am also in favour of the management being rewarded for good governance. And in the end, you'll have something for the shareholders. You can see now that it is easier for a company, also because of other structures, and that sometimes even management of companies say: I would rather take a step, but then I get into trouble with my shareholders, because they are only on short-term dividend. This is a development that is not surprising, but less desirable than the other pattern. Then you should also look at how you as a market master, as a government, stimulate that what I just described was how it worked first, where you could rely more on and now you will have to stimulate more, you will see that pattern more often than the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u108	I think it is true what Mr Dijkhoff says that is not surprising in itself. Then I wonder whether he thinks that we have now reached the stage where a more favourable policy for companies does not automatically lead to more prosperity and well-being for the ordinary Dutchman. Mr Dijkhoff will certainly recognize this passage, because it comes from his own discussion document Liberalism. Hence my question to Mr Dijkhoff. For I also read in the same discussion paper that a true liberal should be heard, and when I hear 'a true liberal', I think Mr Dijkhoff should think that action should be taken by that true liberal. So my question is: when can we expect the change of course? 'Cause we're waiting with grief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u109	One part is delivered and one part requires further analysis. As for the first part that is being delivered, we have already talked about tackling mailbox companies. But you can also see that we are doing something about the scheme to offset losses, that it is no longer allowed to be global and long-term as it was before, but that we are limiting it. It is also no secret that this was an initiative law of GroenLinks/PvdA, I believe, and perhaps you too, because you are always working together which is now being taken over. So that's a step; that's a number of steps I'm calling, which you can already see we're doing this to deal with. We have postponed the reduction in the higher rate of corporation tax for a year. I think you need a broader analysis of what coherent package you can use to promote that we have an economy in the first variant, as we cherish it, and less in the second, before you can necessarily look at middle level afterwards. But that is what I come up with in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u110	My question was, of course, about wages and what Mr Dijkhoff thought of them. Does he think it is fair that these benefits to shareholders are rising hugely, even with Philips, but people's wages are much less? All over the Netherlands, of course. In a way, his discussion piece gave some hope. It's been referred to for a while. It seemed as if the VVD wants to file the raw edges of capitalism a little bit. I thought, well, that's a good thing. At the same time, the reduction of the tax on profits is postponed for a year, but for the time being it continues, while people's wages are not rising. I find that very disappointing. I would like to say to Mr Dijkhoff that there are so many things the cabinet can do, now, to compensate. To make sure that wages go up. Raise the minimum wage, for example. Raise the salaries of our nurses, our teachers and our agents. None of that is what this cabinet chooses. From fine words, Mr. Dijkhoff, wages are not going to rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u111	No, you have to have money for that, and you have to earn it as a company first, because otherwise you won't have any taxes. That is why I hold that position of companies. Otherwise, in a few years, we'll be just making up what we have. I will deal with this in greater detail later. It's a discussion paper. As a party, we are discussing what the best solutions are. You will not be surprised that we, rereading the SP programme, concluded that we do not think it is. It's not like we've become a whole different party in one go. I must honestly say that we are already taking measures faster than I had sometimes expected. But I don't think we'll ever reach the same end point as the SP. I'll give you more details on how I see it in a moment. But I think that the task for us is greater because, as I said earlier, we cherish the principles of a free market economy, a liberal market. We also think that capitalism with room for creativity, entrepreneurship and competition is the best way of prosperity for all of us. But you can also see that some companies are using the current rules to eliminate competition or not use it properly and, above all, to buy back shares instead of investing in the future. Those are things that worry me. I want to fix it, make it work better, but not replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u112	My expectations prior to this debate were quite high, but also not so high, I can reassure Mr Dijkhoff that we would end with a debate in which Mr Dijkhoff would take over the SP programme as a whole. That might be a little overzealous. That's for later. But what I find disappointing is this. He starts his answer by saying that the profits of companies must be there. Just don't let that be the problem. The profits of companies are very large. Economic growth is huge. The benefits to shareholders are greater. Nevertheless, the wages of the people who make that profit and who ensure that profits can be made at all, remain behind. I spoke to Mr Dijkhoff about what this cabinet is doing for that purpose. Then I find it quite disappointing that there is indeed a discussion piece that I read 'who knows, the raw edges of capitalism are being filed', but that a lot of people, our nurses, teachers and agents are not yet able to face an increase in salaries. I'd like to call on the Cabinet to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u113	We, as a party, through the leader of the party, have expressed our displeasure at the remaining wage increases. We have seen some good developments in recent months, but still not everywhere. So the question I will raise in the coming year is how you reward now if it does and stimulates if it doesn't happen yet. It's about how you put your rules on that. That remains a point of attention. Furthermore, I think that relief for everyone is also a nice way to have more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u114	I see Mr Asscher again, I see Mr Kuzu, I see Mr Klaver perhaps. Mr Dijkhoff has actually spoken for four minutes so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u115	I was halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u116	He's been interrupted for almost 45 minutes. All because of your family.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u117	It's also a big family, Mr. Chairman. But let's not discuss chapters today either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u118	That's good. I shall go to Mr Asscher, if I may, if I may. Then Mr Dijkhoff can speak for the rest of his speech. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u119	It's nice when there are cliff hangers in such a debate that you won't know how it ended with those ten kids until tomorrow night. So we need to build up the tension. I'm kind of excited about what Klaas Dijkhoff is doing. I do respect that. He wants a new course for his party, which in my view has been the largest party in the Netherlands for a bit too long. He wants to set that new course while that party rules. It's interesting to know what that means. He was just talking about what's right in the division. I would like to ask him whether he thinks it is fair that he should now ensure that people with an income of about €20,000 will, if it is all true, improve on about two tens, while people with a ton of income will improve on €200 per month. Is that fair in that new direction? Does he think so? Would he want that? And what would his red uncle think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u120	One of those many is Council member for the PvdA, so Mr Asscher can speak better on his behalf than myself. Yeah, that's how bad it is, I say in response to a comment from box K. With the 20,000, it's a little bit where that income comes from. I think it is a good thing that we continue to distinguish between work and not work, and that we continue to encourage work. As far as someone can work, of course. Otherwise, it's a different story. I still believe, as was the case with the coalition agreement, that it is necessary to reduce charges across the board and, as I have said before, to do the top rate when you go to a two-disc system. Why? Many people do not have a static income and we still have the problem that in some income groups you hardly notice any of it when you go to work more, because there will be no regulations. That is not something you can correct within one budget. I think it is a good thing that everyone can make progress, although 1% is indeed more in high incomes than in lower incomes. That is why we have now also focused the additional burden relief on middle incomes, rather than on high incomes. That does not mean that I thought it was unfair what we had already agreed and that it should not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u121	I was also talking about lower incomes, just an AOW and a small supplementary pension. You're on that kind of income. Then you can say: that's not static, let those people go to work, but that's just not in there anymore. Those are also people with a small part-time job, who earn much less and who are not able to absorb such a small setback caused by the cabinet, a higher VAT or a higher energy bill. It is right that there should be attention for the middle group, but shouldn't there be much more attention for those on lower incomes, who are having a hard time with the rent and paying the groceries that have become much more expensive? Shouldn't we be doing more for that? Or is it the old VVD that says: no, "just" does not apply to low incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u122	That was never the VVD. It is true that Mr Asscher is now zooming in on one year, while in the previous cabinet we have always looked at how we could spare the bottom, the lower income groups, when we were in the crisis. Mr Asscher himself was a member of that cabinet and will not deny it. If you're looking long-term, it's a correction that's badly needed in the middle. The AOW is double indexed. That goes on. Retirement is a loose point, which we still have no solution for as a parliament. I think it is right that you continue to encourage people to become middle-class when they have that possibility, that there remains a difference between working and not working, and that you look to see if everyone is getting along nicely, even though you cannot work or are not working. I think that's a great achievement, but the group where it's most pinched now is that middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u123	Mr Dijkhoff thus confirms that no one is paying attention to low incomes if there is no left-wing party. That's crazy, of course. People are having trouble with the rent. Homelessness is rising. There is poverty, despite the prosperity we celebrated yesterday in the Throne speech with the briefcase. It's not a matter of... That has already been done in the previous cabinet. People are having a hard time right now, partly because of measures taken by this cabinet. My appeal would be that attention should be paid to the middle groups. I think they may need more security than this Prime Minister's purchasing power promise, but pay attention to those low incomes, because they have contributed as well as they have retired, or they contribute to a small part-time job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u124	That's why they're getting better. Furthermore, I would not want to fail my coalition partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u125	Mr Kuzu has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u126	It is now, of course, the third year. If it's okay, we'll have elections in 2021, or maybe even earlier. This is also a year in which the government parties have to make themselves popular. What strikes me is that they are actually breaking the budgetary rules. The budgetary rules have been used many times in recent years as an argument not to vote in favour of a motion or an amendment by an opposition party. I ask Mr Dijkhoff: how is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u127	Because you have to earn it before you can spend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u128	In recent years, we have been dealing with economic growth. In recent years, we have also dealt with distribution issues, but also budgetary rules. Those budgetary rules were always the reason for your party to vote against motions and opposition amendments. This year, you'll be deviating yourself from that. I would then like to know from you whether we will still hear from the VVD or any other coalition party in the future that something does not fit in with the budgetary rules. Can the opposition to get motions adopted or support from the coalition also ignore the budgetary rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u129	I must help Mr Kuzu out of the dream if he thought that was why we did not support his motions and amendments. There are many reasons for us not to support motions and amendments. I have just explained it to Mr Van der Staaij, so I will try to be brief now. There's a difference in situations. What's your status? That determines how much priority you have to give to purely redeeming or redeeming, so let the sovereign debt fall, and space for other things. We will assess motions and amendments at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u130	That is far too easy, and so does Mr Dijkhoff. He knows that this has often been the reason enough in the past to discourage motions, amendments and opposition proposals. Now he's trying to get around that or make a joke out of it on his Dijkhoffs. These were proposals on middle incomes, which Mr Dijkhoff is now talking about. They were also proposals for low incomes. Mr Dijkhoff is now making a plea for extra investment in middle incomes. In recent years, the VVD has been responsible for all kinds of measures that hit the middle class hard. Think of the rent increases, think of the VAT increase, the messages that have become more expensive, the own risk, the health insurance premiums. You could have done it all at the time if you had been able to deviate from the budgetary rules at the time. I would like to know one thing from Mr Dijkhoff: if we or one of the other opposition parties make a proposal that does not fit in with the budgetary rules of this cabinet that were adopted at the beginning of this cabinet period, will we ever hear the argument that it is not covered by the budgetary rules again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u131	Mr Kuzu also talks about dissuade by the cabinet. I'll take a look at the cabinet. I'm not going to say on behalf of all these people that he won't hear that anymore. They can say that again. Mr Kuzu pretends to have plans that the VVD loved, but yes the budgetary rules. Really, if we're okay with a plan, we'll back it up. If we don't like it, we don't support it. In my opinion, the budgetary rules have never been fully applied by any cabinet. I do not think we have supported any of your proposals which were not contrary to the budgetary rules. I wouldn't expect you to think that if I say yes to this, I'll all get support. We often have many other reasons not to support proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u132	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u133	Often the budgetary rules were the reason. The salmon standard. At the beginning of the period we have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u134	Several reasons, that's one of them. Prudent fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u135	I think I was talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u136	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u137	It's kind of hard. It's kind of crooked. In recent years, as a VVD, you have discouraged numerous proposals for improving the purchasing power of the middle class because they are not covered by the budgetary rules. Now suddenly in a financial year before the elections...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u138	You made your point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u139	I'd like to conclude, Mr. Chairman. A financial year before the elections you are going to play Sinterklaas by handing out the budget rules in full
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u140	We're not handing out. We have all worked very hard to bring back the government debt, which was far too high. We'll continue with that, but at a lower rate. Now it's time for people to notice more in their wallet that they've contributed. I would like to point out to Mr Kuzu that he should not have the impression that the budgetary rules were the reason why we did not support all these proposals. There was usually a stack of reasons and this was one of them. I don't quite see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u141	I believe that this point has been sufficiently discussed. You'll have the opportunity, Mr. Kuzu, if there's a reason. I suggest you continue with your speech, Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u142	Mr. Chairman. I was at the part about whether this is nostalgia and homesick for a time I haven't experienced myself, or whether it's something to cherish and retain in our present society. As has already been mentioned in an interruption, it is easier to do things differently as a company than before. It's easier not to have any connection to where you are. You can see everything as convertible and go for the short term. You can only look at your spreadsheets and not your environment. You can choose to take your winnings and offset your losses here and pay back as little as possible to society. But that's possible, doesn't mean it has to be automatic. That's a choice. Many companies in the Netherlands still make the right choice. Small companies with few employees who want to make something beautiful in their own environment and make a good living. But also large companies that have an eye for the environment, who work with others, who make it possible for a very rich collection of SMEs to exist around them and who invest in innovation together with the government, and who not only look at themselves but feel that they can make a difference and who can help to determine what our society looks like in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u143	Do I really hear Mr Dijkhoff here being the reverend towards the companies? Do I hear him say that they should behave properly and that they should above all keep and have more feeling with society? While the VVD has in recent decades, with all kinds of perverse incentives, brought here lucky seekers in the form of multinationals that set up letterbox companies here, only to carry out billions of euros, without us seeing and benefiting from them in the Netherlands. "Luckily, there are also some companies that are truly embedded in society. Let's cherish it. What about the companies that don't want to? They don't really belong in our society." Do I hear Mr Dijkhoff, together with his party, the architect of such an amorous business, really debit that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u144	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u145	Then I think he should keep a more modest story here and clearly put on the penance rug. Thanks to his party, we are dealing here with 16,000 letterbox companies, with an SME that is struggling because of competition due to all these profit advantages, all those tax advantages that the large companies enjoy. He must start choosing SMEs, which really is the driving force behind our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u146	I was talking about big companies that have an eye for their environment, and they know that they are helping to determine what society looks like. I must also acknowledge that the old Philips society is no longer in a literal sense, but that that good mentality is still to be found. I've been talking about PSV's shirt. There is now between the red and white courses Brainport Eindhoven. That's not a company, but it's not there for free. It says here because in this case VDL, ASML, Jumbo, the High Tech Campus and Philips pay that. Because they think it's more important to spend their money radiating that they're part of something bigger than promoting their own name. Because in a modern age they feel that you can also choose to do things differently. Because they feel that they are part of their environment and society and that they have a role in it that goes beyond the next financial year. Because they still hold the value of the Philips society in a modern variant and to varying degrees. I want us to work from a political point of view to ensure that we can remain such a society in a changing world and cherish those values. That companies take responsibility and we give them the space and freedom to undertake, whether it's a big company that takes on a whole city or a small company that takes care of a neighborhood or a family. That we don't pretend to be companies and people opposite each other, as if you had to choose one of those two here in politics upon entry. That we don't immediately bashen all the companies if there are a few assholes in between but make sure that the good ones are rewarded and the profiteers are redirected. That we reward more if you're like old Philips and not like the new Uber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u147	Unlike Mrs Thieme, I would like to congratulate Mr Dijkhoff on his story. If you keep a nice story about the Philips society, about a feeling of nostalgia that I think is widely recognized in this room and about what a society can be, I think that's worth a compliment, so here's the deal. I would like to touch on that last point. I am referring specifically to those SMEs who have written to the VVD, the CDA and all the other parties in recent years because they are no longer able to compete with companies with cutting-edge earning models, which are therefore acting along the lines that anything that is not prohibited by law is therefore allowed. If we want to promote the good, does the government have a role to play in ensuring that those good SMEs, the companies that take responsibility, can continue to compete with those that want to get the best out of the bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u148	Yes, in my view, it is, because the liberal free market is not anarchy. A market has a market master, who determines the rules, the rates and other arrangements. So I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u149	There has been an interim report by the Borstlap Committee for the summer, which deals precisely with this issue. It's about a fair economy that's also a strong economy. I think that's part of that Philips society, too. What does that say, Mr Dijkhoff? What does that mean for the course of the VVD and for the continuation of this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u150	I want to deal with the Borstlap Committee very carefully. The interim report outlines macro-developments. These are consequences of trends. One of the trends is that azzp'er doesn't always cost the same thing and that azzp'er doesn't always choose how to ensure himself. It is sometimes used in such a way that the client in particular saves costs and that someone at a lower rate works uninsuredly. I understand that problem analysis, but we have to be careful about this, because not every zzp'er has the feeling that he has made this choice. I am therefore in agreement with the main thrust of the report, and there is a problem here, but in dealing with it we have a responsibility not to say: you have not contributed enough or you have made this choice. I am not saying that Mr Heerma does; I am describing this from my own background. We let that happen. You can actually see that not half, but almost half of the Netherlands works in a system with very little certainty and a much lower load. There's no spare. The other half lives in a system of collective insurance and a welfare state, which I think is too much. Whichever one of them you tend to lean to the most, I don't think anyone's leaning towards such a dichotomy. For the follow-up, this means that we look carefully at how to solve the problems without giving people from one of the groups concerned the feeling that it was their fault and that they are being punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u151	Thank you for that answer. In autumn 2016, the Centraal Planbureau issued a report in which it clearly shows that there are constructs that allow the less morally motivated entrepreneurs to pass risks and costs on to a flex worker or a particular type of zzp'er at the bottom. I am not talking about blaming someone individually, but Mr Dijkhoff is open to a change in the labour market, and we must also make a move on the other hand, if we are to reduce these opportunities. That's what I'd like to give him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u153	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u154	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u155	Only if we do it as I just described, will we be a strong country with enough work for us, our children and our grandchildren. Only then will we be a country where we can keep the tax acceptable and where we can spend money on important things for all of us. Only if things go well, and if we're prosperous, we can do things like this. Only then can we do something about education, care and safety, and we can ensure a lower energy tax, a lower wage tax and a fairer treatment of people's savings. Only then can we say for the first time since the Second World War: there is no more income tax rate above 50%. Only then will we be able to reduce 3 billion additional burdens just like this year. Only then can we reduce the tax on profits, as we are doing now on the first two tonnes of profits. Many companies benefit from this, including certainly all those small companies that do not keep up a whole city on their own, but they do have families and add our country together. Only then are we rich enough to put down twice a billion-dollar pot to build houses, so you have the chance to buy a cottage for a decent price and children don't have to live at home anymore because they're being overbidden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u156	Mr Dijkhoff talks about the rate in the highest disc and the tax on profits and so on. But a lot of people at home still haven't noticed the promise made by Prime Minister Rutte here in this Chamber two years ago. He then promised that people would improve considerably, but no one actually noticed, or anyone actually felt that. And again, in all honesty: after the 10% economic growth that the Netherlands has experienced in recent years, that 3 billion remains a crumb. It's more than nothing, but I can't call it anything else. Could I ask Mr Dijkhoff: what message does he now have to the ordinary people at home, the pensioners, the people who are simply working or receiving benefits and who are not wide-ranging and who see the burden rising to their lips? When will we finally have this massive increase in purchasing power that Rutte promised the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u157	The last year has not learned, but I would add that these tables and predictions are difficult. With one disappointing energy bill, that envelope on your doormat or that mail in your inbox, a large part of what we are pursuing here and what was predicted to be better, can leave again. It can evaporate again, especially on small incomes. I am careful when to say, because we can only determine government policy here: we do relief, we do less tax on the energy bill. That should turn out to be positive. I can't predict how much percent that is, because nobody lives in a model like that. I can only express the hope that next year people not only think 'it was in tables', but that they also say 'I've noticed it now'. On 1 January a few things were positive, but there was also a VAT increase and there was also a rather disappointing energy bill. I can only express the hope that by doing what we can influence, it will be noticeable next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u158	The energy bill that goes down, of course, went up first. It doesn't help people very much if you take them away from them first and then give them back some of it. But, of course, you have a chance to do something. Last year we had a surplus of 12 billion, this year of 10 billion. Next year the surplus will be a little less, a few billion, but yet there are billions for picking up. Why don't you say: we're really going to live up to Rutte's promise as a VVD; we're good for our word and we're going, for example, to reduce the rents considerably with that money, to eliminate the risk of care and to recover the VAT increase that you're right to call "refundable"? The money's here! Why don't we do that, because at least people at home will have something in their wallets. Then they also see that Rutte's promise is being kept instead of those 3 billion load reliefs, part of which is in lowering the highest disc to 50%. Most Dutch people have no use for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u159	The highest rate is separate from the 3 billion. Anyway, the more tables and numbers, the less pleasant it is to follow it. The 3 billion we do is every year. The surplus referred to by Mr Wilders is once. I get that it's nice to just have money once, but there you can lower the rent for one year and then it goes up again. We are trying to ensure that we can do a burden relief that stays, which is every year from now on and not once. I think that we are fulfilling our promise and that we are also spending money on things that people think are important; I have already mentioned security, defence and care. But you have to choose in that because of scarcity. We'll do our best. You're gonna need more growth, I'm gonna talk about that in a minute, so I can do more. A surplus of one year is once money, while this 3 billion comes back every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u160	Of course, that's too faint for words. We have been here since 2017, again, last year the surplus was called 12 billion every time: put it in! So you can't say to me now: yes, next year might not be. We have called it back every year, not only because we think it is our own, but also because the Prime Minister has promised it. Again, Mr Dijkhoff: the people paid for the crisis. There is 10% economic growth, but people have not noticed it. You'll be an ordinary Dutchman. You only notice that your fixed charges have become more expensive, then become more expensive. You pay more on your rent and more on your health care. You'll only be two elders. Then you'll have to make a payment at the pharmacy in January because you're two... what is it? The Commission has decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93 (2) of the EC Those people haven't noticed, so do something for those people. Just keep your promise and don't say, "Well, it's only once." Do something! You're not doing anything, or at least not enough, for those people. I am very sorry, because you did not just promise them, but you left people in the cold again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u161	Mr. Chairman. I can only say what we all do, but in order not to confuse your time management, I will not list the whole list, I have just done so in my contribution. That is a lot, and I would, of course, like to do much more, but we have to earn more first. Only if we all have better prosperity can we do so, otherwise things will be at the expense of things that we also consider important. I do not see Mr Wilders making that choice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u162	I also see what good things happen in the Tax Plan. I had a bit of a feeling that I was reading back last year's counter-budget of the SP, the Labour Party and the GroenLinks Party, and that there is a major repair announcement going on here to correct the mistakes made by the cabinet last year, and that deserves to be congratulated. But Mr Dijkhoff said something else: for the first time since the Second World War we finally have a tax rate below 50%. He is very proud of that and that shows that his entire contribution about standing up for the middle class... Bringing the rate down, you don't do that much for the middle class, so for the dental assistant. That's for the richest people. That's why I'm afraid your red uncle will say after hearing this argument: you're cocking left, but you keep filling right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u163	No, it's even more radical. To earn the predicate "left-wing dicks," I really have to say other things. I think it's still wise to do this in your tax rate. The 3 billion we have now been able to do, we have really focused on the middle incomes. I get it. It's also a totem pole for me whether it's above or below 50%, but it's my general sense of justice that you don't have a rate for income tax above 50%, that you don't have to turn in more than half of what you just earned. I think that's just right. Inside, all these other rates have been flattened to 37%. That's a lot of help, especially if you don't have such a high income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u164	Compared to the coalition chord, that first disc goes up rather than down. You say, "I'm not cocking on the left." Yeah, well! I'm so happy about that. Looks like you're moving the beacons. We must be careful not to overtake us, at least in terms of words. Great! I see that the tide is turning: the words you speak about these big companies, the inclusion for the dentist, for the middle groups. I can see it in words, but it is left behind in deeds, and I appeal to you to do so. That's the left dick and the right stuffing. And I think your red uncle thinks so, like a lot of red uncles and cousins and Uncle Lo do. So butter with the fish. You see that the tide is turning, you see that people no longer accept the fact that large companies are drawing power towards them and dodging taxes. You will go along with this in words and, in part, in deeds, but take that extra step. Take that extra step and make sure the money doesn't go to those highest incomes, but to the middle groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u165	For the debate analysts: this is what they call a "dead kiss." I'm not gonna take that one either. Mr Klaver is trying to push my words for his cart. That's his right and he does that smartly, but if he really thinks the VVD is going to be a left-wing party... I don't think he thought so, but he'd like to highlight the difference here. I'd be happy to be a part of that. Of course, that's never gonna happen. As a right-wing party, you want the economy to work for everyone and especially for the middle class, for the people who just work hard every day, do their best, want to raise their children, want to keep a bit of good bread on it and be able to go on vacation. If you want it to work for those people, we need to make some corrections to what we're doing right now. That doesn't mean you have to say, oh, I'm saying you have a left-wing story and you don't deliver. No, I don't give a left-wing story, I don't keep a left-wing story. I'm trying to deliver the story I love and not the story Mr. Clover makes of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u166	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u167	The marginal rates for the middle groups are still above 80%. What matters is... I want world peace, too, but the question is, what are you gonna do about it? Mr Dijkhoff says he stands up for the middle groups. I appeal to him that he is not doing enough for the middle groups, that ultimately the group that benefits most are the most wealthy people. Those dentists, the supporters of Mr Dijkhoff, receive by far the most from everyone, and that is what matters. The argument you're holding is fantastic. The actions you talk about are left behind. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u168	The difference is becoming clear. People are getting better, even people who are not working are getting better and the middle groups are getting better. Everyone's getting better. Now Mr Klaver says: yes, but someone else is improving and I do not think that is fair. Yeah, that's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u169	It's gonna be a repeat, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u170	I promise I won't repeat it, but I'll say something else. This really is the Dijkhoff 'yes, well, you say that the others are not getting better and that you don't like them'. No! This is the difference between someone who earns €20,000 to €25,000 per year and who improves €200 and someone with a ton that improves €2,000 per year. That's quite a difference. That $2,000 doesn't matter for someone with a ton, for what he's gonna do to his kids or for how he's gonna set up his life. But it does matter to the people at the bottom. The story you're telling, with your new insights, fits that we turn that around: €200 for the most rich people.......................................................................................................................................... And you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u171	This is pretty fake, because now you're pretending to be able to put all those middle groups at €2,000 by putting the upper groups at €200. It doesn't work like that. Mr Klaver must then first come up with a proper calculation which shows how little it does if you put the higher groups on heavier ones. I stand by it: this is exactly what I have argued. In the coalition agreement we already wanted relief across the board. So also the mortgage interest rate deduction is made there, and that has been redirected back to those rates. That's a fair deal; it's a good deal. After that we got the chance for even more load relief: it went to the middle class. Yeah, it's not a left-wing story, but I think it's a good story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u172	Of course you can always ask for more, but the intensity of the reactions does surprise me. Compare this Klaas Dijkhoff with last year's Klaas Dijkhoff and count your blessings. This Millions note tackles tax avoidance. This Millions note deletes all kinds of deductions. This Millions note keeps the corporate income tax at a level so that we can reduce the burden on people at home. I say again to my fellow Members behind me: count your blessings. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is as follows. Mrs Marijnissen mentioned this briefly. The wage increase for the coming year is now around 2.5%. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that the rise in wages that business now has in store is a far too low wage increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u173	Yeah, across the board does. A big disclaimer: some companies are in a sector that is not affected or need to adapt their entire business because of climate change measures. So you have to judge it by company. But across the board, you can have the lake, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u174	That's a yes. That's nice. It was also the Prime Minister who finally said at the VVD festival that wages should rise by 4.5% to 5%. That is now also the wage requirement of FNV. So FNV and VVD find each other better and better. But if this increase in wages is lagging behind and is still on the 2.5%, will Mr Dijkhoff join me in calling on the cabinet to put maximum pressure on business, so that this increase in wages will be much higher next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u175	Yes. As far as it is not yet clear, I think this should remain part of the discussions. Sure. This reciprocity is working in every direction. We must therefore continue to emphasise this point in the discussions that are taking place. If you look at what is happening now, you can see that in the worst case scenario, a lot of companies have made a good wage increase and a lot of companies have not. Then a generic measure such as postponing tax reductions does not strike an optimal goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u176	Finally. It is good that Mr Dijkhoff, like Mr D66, wants this increase in wages to be higher than 2.5% next year and that he is prepared to call on the cabinet to put pressure on business to do so. I understand that he also warns: we have to look at the overall picture. Some companies do better than others. But is Mr Dijkhoff in the end prepared to use next year's reduction in the tax on profits that is still in the books for 2021 as a leverage to boost that average wage increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u177	This is a dilemma. I'm not gonna scrap her, but you're not gonna take the biggest threat off the table, either. I just mentioned it: it becomes a less and less logical tool if a large part of it does so immediately and a large part does not. Then I would prefer a targeted method of stimulating and correcting it rather than saying that 70% of companies did, but 30% did not; it is not going to happen. Because the companies that do will also take into account the lower tax on profits that they can partly finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u178	(NL) Mr President, all in all. I also think that this is a rather sensible course for Mr Dijkhoff. I would say: let us just keep that leverage on the table, so that business too feels the responsibility to improve that purchasing power and the companies are also going to appeal to each other for that lagging wage increase. I think that fits perfectly in the new course of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u179	That wasn't a question. That was a call. Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u180	An interesting debate. You will not be surprised that I may want to go a little further than Mr Jetten on this point. Earlier, I spoke with the Prime Minister about the lack of wage increases. He indicated that he wants to make this a condition for further lowering the tax on profits. We have now seen that this reduction in the tax on profits is being postponed for a year. But if you're serious, I don't think we should end up in an apple. Or on: we need to increase the pressure. We're just dealing with big business here. That's what this is about. We were just talking about that. The business where benefits and shareholders are large, but wages are lagging behind. We're talking about that part of business. Then Mr Dijkhoff has to deliver here today and say: 'We are holding on to that line. At a time when these wages are not substantially rising, there is simply no question of the tax on profits falling even further. Point."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u181	A few things. It happens a year later and she goes down less. That's right. We're talking about big companies, but I want to keep an eye out for the unspoken idea that you need to catch the big companies because they're not good. There are also smaller companies that you have some comments on, and there are big companies that are doing great. So you should not say: business is not good, and big companies are not good. We are also criticising a lot of large companies that do not pay any income tax at all. Well, it doesn't do them much good to reduce it. It's about how much profit you make. The first two tons reduce the load. The intention is to reduce the tax on profits even above that, less than originally planned. Then you can do things. Hopefully I'll get to that... like rewarding your employees more and innovation. I would therefore prefer to look at how you encourage this rather than say that you have to pay more taxes. Then the goal of higher wages or of a stronger economy, or that future generations can earn their money, is not getting any closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u182	In fact, I had hoped that Mr Dijkhoff would let go of that sacred belief of 'if the companies are well, with the profits, then it will automatically end up with the workers'. I think we have seen over the past few decades that, at least, let me put it mildly: 'It is not automatic' and we must therefore intervene in this. And indeed, lowering the tax on profits is now being postponed for a year. But she's still going down! And she's already so low. During my life I'm 34 years old and the profits tax is halved. Why should we continue to reduce taxes on large companies, when it is obvious that the increase in wages for the people who worked for those profits is lagging behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u183	I don't have the idea that wages for people when companies pay less taxes. Let me make that clear. I also don't have the idea that... Let me rephrase. I do have the feeling that it has to be earned in one way or another. There is just a dilemma: can you set up the whole world at once, or is there the reality, in which companies also have options and choices? Those two things you're gonna have to bring together. You need to encourage companies to be here and make a profit. Because that's usually a sign that the company is healthy. If it doesn't make a profit, I certainly don't see that raise coming in. You can do a lot of interesting things if you take a lot of the profits to the treasury, but then they're more likely to choose another country. That's still an option. The chance is therefore less that they increase wages. But my image is not: as long as the profits of companies are high, it will be okay. As far as that ever really worked, it's a lot less now. So I think you should intervene in that. You have to see how you stimulate that. But that does not mean that less profit or a higher tax is always better for society. You need to find the right mix. That doesn't happen all at once. It is not that in the search for the better functioning of the good aspects of capitalism and the free market I have looked at other parties and thought: hey, they have had the perfect recipe for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u184	Mr Dijkhoff has again referred to the fact that the profits must first be earned. Yes, of course. But I think that's the least of the problems right now, because those profits are huge. The problem is that they do not end up with the people who worked for them. But if Mr Dijkhoff no longer has that sacred faith and also sees that this automation is no longer necessarily there, can I make a proposal? Is he perhaps willing to join us and think about a proposal on profit-sharing? By the way, there are already companies that have such schemes. They are often companies with mature employees. Think of high-tech companies like ASML. Why shouldn't we organize something like that for all the companies? Then we really have the guarantee that when it goes well and a lot of profit is made, it will reach the people who have worked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u185	I have to look into that first, whether it is sensible to impose it on everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u186	Mr President, you look surprised. I think it's a very important point what's being made here. We are very happy with those companies, it's great that they're making a profit and that they're going well, that they're not bankrupt but that they're expanding and that there's more permanent jobs coming. That's very good news. If you want to reward the companies that do that in a good way, you shouldn't throw out banknotes over the shareholders with a helicopter. That's what you're up to. That was the case with the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u187	That was last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u188	But that was not mentioned today, and that is what you want with the tax on profits. If you delete it, you can spend 2 billion euros on people we both consider important: police officers, nurses, military and teachers. In the meantime, you can help and reward those companies that do the right thing for their employees and their environment; a bit of the ideal Philips companies. You don't need this gift for that, that's really the old VVD thinking and you all regret it. It was in the fibers that washed away. So that means you can clear that 2 billion for the people who work for all of us. We're gonna make a proposal together to reward those wonderful companies if they do the right thing, instead of their shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u189	I don't want to take the entire heritage with me right away. We are a very beautiful country and we have been able to contribute to that as a party at times, and other parties at least as much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u190	The prime minister's heritage wasn't what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u191	Yeah, he doesn't have to get to the sticky cats in the display case either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u192	In due course, everything is negotiable, but you shouldn't do this. A new course is one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u193	As far as I'm concerned, he's been there for a long time and we can use the hashtag VVD4. It's very popular on Twitter these days. Anyway, let's get back to the content. What was it again? Oh, yeah, the tax reduction and looking back at last year. For me, it's more of a search for how the world has changed and how you have to adjust things at resource level to preserve the good. It's not like I think we've been doing it wrong all along. I am very curious to see how Mr Asscher sees that route. I will immediately ask the cabinet how they see it; so broader, how to promote the good with taxes and regulations. I do not have a ready-made solution for this and I do not think it is right to pretend. Banknotes from helicopters is a striking picture, but the time when VVDs traveled in helicopters is a long time ago. I think you should look at how you do allow the companies to make room for wage increases and innovations. I do not necessarily hear Mr Asscher say that he wants to raise taxes, but that does not seem to me to be the most beneficial means. I'm looking for a way to differentiate. We have one example of this: the innovation box. If you make a profit through innovation, it will be taxed differently than without it. I am thinking of that line, but I am reluctant to do so because I do not yet have something that I can present as a big solution here. It's something we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u194	I will present this solution in my own speaking time, but for the moment, the 2 billion structural which is now possible, which hangs there, is very important for the great needs of the public sector. With this you can make possible the wage increase that is good for the Netherlands and good for the economy. It doesn't go at the expense of the companies, because you're handing out a delayed gift that you put in the closet to stay there. Then we're not even going to raise taxes yet, but you can give a huge boost to the police officers, the nurses and the teachers. I would ask the VVD to support us in this. We have tabled a proposal to align this deferred reduction in the tax on profits, just to be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u195	I don't see it as a gift. I think it's "too long, soon at home" to say: oh, there's 2 billion, that goes somewhere else. In the long run, this will have consequences for the next generation, which can be detrimental if it hinders growth and therefore has to cut back on all these beautiful things, while you can spend more on them now for a few years. So I'm really going to judge that in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u196	I hear the VVD say, before you can spend money, you have to earn it first. A truth like a cow. But if there is one group in society that has already earned that money properly and paid it partly to pension funds during the working period, which then made huge profits, then it is the group of pensioners. And they're the most threatened. In the last ten years they have not progressed and at the end of this year there will also be a huge reduction for many pensioners. Can I hear the VVD about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u197	Yeah, sure. What we arrange as a government is the AOW. It's rising. What employers and employees have arranged together, and what we are talking about a lot, is pension. That's a nice system, because by investing you can eventually receive more when you retire than you've ever put yourself in. What is happening in between is not magic, it is not voodoo, it is just economics, and that has to do with interest rates and investment results, because those profits from funds are not being skimmed, but are there to pay those pensions. We have a very careful structure in which there is now low interest rates. This is partly due to the ECB, but, apart from them, that interest rate has been falling for decades. Among other things, because we now have a lot of people who no longer work, you now see that that is threatened. Of course, the pension agreement of Minister Koolmees and the entire cabinet offers some relief. We had the hope that there would be discounts, now it would be worse without it. On the other hand, those threatening discounts, we as a Chamber last week adopted a motion that you want to avoid unnecessary discounts. The Minister is working hard to see how this is possible, but in consultation with pension owners, namely employers, employees and pension funds. I hope, of course, that, in addition to reaching the pension agreement, he will be able to offer solutions here, too, which, as politicians, give us the relief to say to the people with a pension that they are not being cut off and to say to the people who are still building that it is not at their expense. That balance is not so easy to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u198	Yes, pensions belong to employers and employees, but we here, and in particular the Cabinet, determine the rules of the game. Those rules of the game prevent the normal payment of what should be possible. Because over the entire period of recent years when we have bridged a crisis, the content of the pots has increased from 700 billion to 1,500 billion. Then you can't insist that it's not possible to just pay a decent pension? Not only me but also the people at home, the people who used to vote for the VVD, would like to hear from the VVD what you can do for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u199	Sure, it's possible to do so without discounts. You can disconnect all your security systems. It's not just that you get the big risk of discounts for other generations. If you retire now, I hope for your sake that you will receive many years of retirement. So it doesn't just apply to the people who are now receiving a pension compared to the people who are young and working. It is also about ensuring that you can receive the pension you are receiving in ten years' time. We have built in all these safety systems for that. That does not mean that it is not a concern, but it does mean that I expect the Minister to spend more than an easy solution from the short term and then to appear here in ten years' time at a parliamentary survey that we really would have seen the discounts in ten years' time being even more drastic and worse because of what we are doing now. So I want a solution that not only relieves now, but actually solves something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u200	Each year, 75 billion more will be added to those retirement pots. So it's bullshit. The Minister of Finance said yesterday that he cannot look into the future for 20 years. You're trying to do that. That's bullshit. If you look at the long-term averages that make pension funds, that's still very neat. If you subtract from that carefully, carefully, then there will still be more than enough money for future generations. For once in your life, admit it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u201	I cannot predict for the next 20 years, and I cannot therefore take the risk that they will all go well. So you have to build in safety for that. It doesn't change the fact that I hope we can avoid that discount. That is why we supported Parliament's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u202	I would like to add my voice to Mr Krol. I brought it up myself. Can Mr Dijkhoff promise the people who are all sitting at home that pensions will not be cut next year? Just a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u203	I'm afraid not. I can't promise that. The cabinet can estimate that. I can only be convinced that the cabinet and Minister Koolmees are not only going to talk, but are also going to work hard to prevent that and do their best. But there is not one proposal that I am saying is that you will avoid it, and that is also wise for the longer term, for the people who retire in a number of years and for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u204	Okay. I hope the people at home listened carefully. So Mr Dijkhoff says: we're going to try, but if it doesn't work, it won't work, and then your pension will be cut next year. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is: what good is a pension agreement if they are cut down on their pensions next year? What good is a climate agreement if they have to get rid of the gas and have to take out a loan from some fund to cover that? Why do you conclude agreements with everyone except the population, with bureaucrats, with lobby groups, with people from the environmental movement, with the trade union movement, with whom I know, and not with the people at home, who have to pay for all that? They have to pay for the crazyness of the Climate Act. They must also start paying immediately and will see it when pensions are cut. Those people didn't ask for that at all. So please make sure that those pensions are not cut down next year. You can do that. You can do something about the returns, the long-term returns. In my opinion, the 20-year return on the largest fund, the ABP, is 7%. You don't have to pay for a year. If you were to do that calculation rate from 1% to 2% for one year or two years, most funds would be out of the danger zone. That's not irresponsible. That's doing something for the people who get caught in retirement. Why won't you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u205	Mr Wilders says that I do not want all kinds of things. I'd like to hear from the Minister what's wise. I do not rule out the possibility of a solution that prevents these discounts. That is why we have also supported the motion in order to avoid unnecessary discounts. So it's not like I'm saying nothing can happen. I'm just not gonna promise anything if I'm not sure I'm gonna make it. I'm going to fill in that promise and not do something drastic that I don't know if that's the wisest thing to do. I am therefore confident that the Minister will look into it and propose to us if there is room for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u206	Despite this 10% economic growth, the elderly in the Netherlands have also turned in at least 6% in recent years. They have already been cut; their pensions are already frozen. That's not a lard. Now Mr. Dijkhoff also knows that the people who have a pension can't get another job and go to work. You can say to other people: you can even improve your income if you go to work or work a little more. But you can't do that to the elderly. Those people are standing against the wall with their backs. Now economic growth has been 10% in recent times. Everyone says that colleagues have already mentioned that it has mainly gone to the companies. Now you have something for the people who work; I think it's a crumb. You have almost nothing for the benefit recipients. But you don't have anything for the elderly. What if that discount goes through, they don't get up plus one, but then they're at minus I know how much. That's antisocial, isn't it? You can't sell that to the elderly in the Netherlands, can you? They can't improve their income anymore, can they? So don't say, "I want to." You are a member of a government party; you are a member of the largest government party. If you say "whatever you do, my assignment is: no reductions on pensions," then you're a guy. That'll help people. If you don't, it's talk for the often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u207	I think last week, as a Chamber, we put that order in a motion. That's what the minister's gonna do. The motion said do what you can to avoid unnecessary discounts. I think he's working on that. This isn't the last time we're talking about it. I still hope that we will actively contribute to this, too, and that there will be a decent, sensible opportunity to prevent these reductions, so that we can help to ensure that something that is an agreement, not with the government, but between employers, employees and pension funds, does not turn out uncomfortable. The agreement will help that. Without agreement it would be worse; let me put it this way. In the climate agreement, after all the conversations that the cabinet had with everyone at those tables, we put a heavy brake on them, because people were not involved because their wallets were not taken into account. We've made corrections in the right direction, I think. We have intervened as a parliament to bring it closer to the people. It seems to me that Mr Wilder's speech may not be substantive, but it has been served in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u208	It is right that Mr Dijkhoff, towards Mr Krol, should point to future generations, who should also be able to benefit from a pension. Now, in the Chamber and also during the discussion on the Pension Agreement, there is a great deal of money being spent on interest rates and discounts. Is it not very important that we look together at what pension funds are investing in to avoid risks of major losses in the future? We are looking at investment advice from large investment funds. They already say: we should stop investing in fossil industry, in the bio-industry and in palm oil, because these are all dead ends that will only lead to large losses in the long term. Does the VVD agree with us that we should look carefully at how we can get pension funds to invest in a sustainable way, so that they can really make a difference in the transition that is needed? What was it with them? EUR 1,500 billion they have, we can make a big difference in what we are going to invest in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u209	I believe that pension funds are responsible for dealing with this. Their first job is to make more of our investment, so we'll have a pension later. That is their first and most important task. I believe that the pension funds already take into account on their own initiative the extent to which other social effects of an investment can also be taken into account without compromising that core task. So I have no need to intervene in this matter from the Chamber now, because I am not dissatisfied with the way pension funds are doing it. I also see that they are willing to move, that they are willing to invest their capital to help us in the housing market. I'm also very curious to see what's in there. I would be pleased if the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when I look at this budget, could say that the Minister for Housing and Foreign Affairs is going to work hard and involve them in these talks in order to release even more than those two times 1 billion to invest in the housing market. I think that's good business. But I don't feel discontent about how they deal with it. Their first responsibility is to earn, so that they can pay pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u210	This cabinet says that we must all help to shape this transition to a sustainable economy, but above all an ecological economy. So we have a pension fund. We have financial sectors that can contribute to that transition. If we know that in the 1990s we started investing at risk from these pension funds, which means that we are now dealing with the fried pears, then it seems to me that it is a matter for the government to look at that kind of risky investment that is now being made in industries that are doomed to death because of the sustainability requirements we impose. It seems to me that we need to take this forward, to show how we can ensure that these pension funds deal with our pension funds in a better way, so that we will not only have a better pension for our children and grandchildren, but also have a viable society, a viable world for those children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u211	I don't think they're contributing. I have no dissatisfaction with the way in which they behave and with the developments that I see in it. So I don't need any intervention from this parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u212	No discontent? If you look at what the pension funds are investing in? In fossil industry, in the bio-industry. These are sectors where, fortunately, more and more people recognise that this will soon be an end to practice, which cannot be done because of too much ammonia emissions, because of CO emissions. Then we have to opt for other sectors where, in the longer term, there is much more efficiency if we can talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u213	I am not saying that Mrs Thieme should not be dissatisfied, but I am not. I also see these investments, but I also see the developments in those investments. I think they go well, in a prudent way, with the main objective of making enough money for your pensions being maintained. I'm a little hesitant to say to myself, "Dude, pension fund, you have to draw money out of it and put it in there, because then you get a lot more return on it. I think they have people who can weigh that better than we do here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u214	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u215	Mr. Chairman. In the field of innovation, too, there has been a change in how it works in society and the economy. There, too, private investment is falling, especially when it comes to research that is not necessarily successful. To keep it in Philipstermen: Natlab is no longer. The old physics laboratory, where Einstein visited again and where the CD, ASML and NXP were born, is now a cinema. That's good, too. But in order to ensure innovation and fundamental research that potentially can be the most important sandwich in the next 50 years, governments are important. If you think ideologically that you do not, then pragmatic reality forces you to do so, because you do it differently if other governments do. There's gonna be research into a fund right now. I like that. But the greatest danger in politics is money without plan. So I expect not only an effect of how such a fund can technically, I also expect from the cabinet, and especially from the Minister of Economic Affairs, a vision of the ability to earn the economy, if you will say so over the next 30 to 50 years. What would it take to have enough nice work for our children and grandchildren, so that they can have it even better than we do now? What should we invest now in order to take the lead? Is that biotechnology, photonics, nanotechnology, artificial intelligence, thorium or something completely different? 'Cause this lawyer doesn't know anything about it. What is it and where should we be first? And how do we ensure that government and companies develop that together? But how do we then ensure that such a development is not bought away by a foreign party, but that this further development also remains with the Netherlands and that we also have jobs of it? What should you then change into taxes, subsidies, rules, premiums, innovation and education to achieve this? And at the same time, how can we guarantee that we will not only earn enough for all these beautiful things in the future, but also leave reciprocity at the heart of the economy? That we have a market master who cherishes and rewards the good companies? And that there are benefits and support for companies that support their employees and society? And that our free economy is still there, but works more for people? Mr. Chairman. I don't have to go back to the old days. Philips is a beautiful history in Eindhoven, but the underlying importance of a country where companies take responsibility and we cherish and stimulate them as government is great. That is big in numbers and hard euros, but also in solidarity and feeling. A feeling that is more than just a company name or an employer. Because Philips hasn't been so Eindhovens in a long time, and Eindhoven hasn't been so Philips in a long time. And although the name is no longer on the shirt and many supporters in the stands have long since stopped working at Philips, you can hear the meaning of it and the feeling underneath it are still sung loudly in the stadium: "My father who worked at Philips, my mother who works at Strijp S. And together they make lamps there. From Philips, they burn best." Mr. Chairman. I'm not asking to go back to the old days, but to take the good things into the future, to pour the tradition and values of the Philips society into a modern version and to raise our children and grandchildren in brainport Holland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u216	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. There are two colleagues who would like to ask a question. I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u217	I think Mr Dijkhoff said two sentences about living before the last interruption. I thought he might go on about that, but I didn't; I had been waiting for that. Under this cabinet, finding an affordable home has become extremely difficult. Research of the Nibud among tenants last week showed that half of the tenants are struggling to make ends meet, a quarter of the tenants are even financially on the ground. Recently, Mr Dijkhoff said that he was concerned about the effects on people's wallets. It was then about the Climate Agreement. My question is: where is Mr Dijkhoff when it comes to the effects of towering rents on people's wallets?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u218	I believe that yesterday the cabinet sent a letter on this subject with measures which have not previously succeeded in reaching agreement in the coalition, and now it has. And I think there are elements in that too that must reverse this development, and the crux of all this is, to quote the philosopher Koerhuis: 'building, building, building'. Otherwise, they will remain in a market full of scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u219	Yeah, build, build, build. Mr Dijkhoff also said just now that two times one billion is being set aside for housing. It would be fair to say that the one billion is in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u220	No, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u221	That's how we understood it. That actually means 100 million a year. That's problematic. If the housing corporations first get an extra tax of 1.8 billion dollars, that's what we're talking about, and then you get 100 million dollars in profits, that's 100 million dollars in profits. But that is not the beginning of a solution. And so my question to Mr Dijkhoff again: where is he when it comes to the effects on tenants' wallets?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u222	On that first point: if it can be done faster, it can be done faster. You have 100 million structurally, but if it can be in four times €250,000, three times €333,000 or twice €500,000, also fine. It's about building. I just don't think it's gonna be able to pay 1 billion in discounts in a year as a reward for so many builds. Because we also have some other problems before we can build again; nitrogen, to name but one. So it's not like it should be 100 million a year. It has to be as fast as possible, and be flexible in that, I would say to the cabinet. So don't say in October: wait until January. I think that's a shame. That's just got to go in. In addition, as I have just said, we have a package of measures to ensure that the right people are in the right homes. There are also people who pay a hugely low rent, living crookedly, but have a much higher income. We're gonna have to go through with that. The rent increases should be limited, especially if you live in a house whose WPA value increases enormously due to developments in the market and the scarcity. There's gotta be some kind of protection in there. That is a number of things we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u223	We certainly welcome a number of these things, but that does not mean that if Mr Dijkhoff says 'building, building, building', I find that a limited answer. Certainly, in times of housing shortage: building. Absolutely. But what good is that as an average starter if a bit of a affordable store gets hijacked in front of you by an investor? What good is "building, building, building" if it does make the construction companies rich, but not help the people who are looking for an affordable home? My question to Mr Dijkhoff is also: what more does he want to do, besides 'building, building, building', to ensure that affordable living remains a right and does not become a luxury?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u224	The impact has not yet been settled, but at the point Mrs Marijnissen points out, we have politically opened the door to make a difference in, for example, transfer tax between a starter who buys a house for the first time and someone who already has an entire portfolio of houses and buys another one, and then rents it out. I get that it's harsh if you think: I could have my mortgage, I could have bought that cottage, but someone else bought it and now I can rent it for a much higher amount than the mortgage would have been. That is, of course, harsh, and that is why we have said to the cabinet: see if, in addition to this difference in transfer tax, you can take other measures to prevent that from happening. If you have more than one house, it's not wrong, but you pay more for it. It's about making that difference. It's not like you're gonna be able to put in a few rules with the Tax Administration tomorrow and then it's done, but the Cabinet's gonna see how that can be done, and the question isn't whether that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u225	Mrs Marijnissen and I enjoyed Mr Dijkhoff's speech as co-Brabanders. I'd like to stay with Brabant, too. Besides brainport and all the innovative entrepreneurs who are also in Veghel and West-Brabant, for me Brabant is also the province with beautiful nature, as with you in Eindhoven the Kempen and with me in Uden the Maashorst. But Brabant is also a province where there are huge shortages in the housing market both in cities and in many medium-sized villages. Young people, starters, are waiting and jumping to build extra affordable homes. That ambition is shared by you and me, but there is a huge task for us: the problem of nitrogen. This means that we will have to make choices in the near future. I have a few questions about this, but my first question is actually: does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that we should call on the government to look for a solution in particular in the case of nitrogen, so that we can continue to build these affordable houses in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u226	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u227	That's good, Mr. Chairman. Then I hope we can get to work on that as well. So far, the cabinet has found an exception for e.g. rooftops, but of course you cannot live in rooftops. So it's gonna take more than that to drive the housing business. My second question would then be: does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that in solving the problem of nitrogen we cannot agree with the removal of nature or the invention of a ruse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u228	I do not think it is wise to rule out solutions or to declare them priority. It is possible, and every political party will say: we prefer to solve it this way. But I think you should keep everything under review. In the way you protect nature, there are things you can say: they are not entirely logical, or they are much wider than European should be, or they are not proportionate to our neighbouring countries. The government can say: you could emit less in the future; the source policy. That's not unspeakable to me either. But you have to look at the very wide package, and it kind of stabbed me two weeks ago. If you're a farmer now and have a lot of animals that eject, you just do it neatly. Then you have a beautiful role in our society. Of course, we're also doing warm clean-up. Then we say to people: you have worked very hard, you have provided us with a lot of food and economic prosperity, you are extremely important, but for this amount we can buy you out, if you say that you have no successor or that you are going to do something else beautiful. Then you keep those people in honor, then you don't blame them, but that way of doing it can lead to less cattle and less emissions. We're doing part of that already, and I think that's a respectful way. I would like to prevent it from becoming a matter of guilt, "Who is the issue with these emissions?" After all, we all chose this and we all ended up in this. The word "stuff" has started to lead its own life, but the Council of State has said that the foundation is not right. If you can build in another way and also guarantee that those actual emissions are not wrong... I need to take a step back. If you now find that the model we are using calculates too much nitrogen in relation to what is really happening, then you must also dare to adapt that model without shouting immediately: that is less nature protection. I think that, now that all these parts are on the table, sensible solutions should be found. We shouldn't have a taboo or a favorite shobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u229	I am very pleased with Mr Dijkhoff's answer, because he says that we should not so much think of lists as I shall no longer use that word after this, but, above all, look for an appropriate solution. The building of houses is on one. Nature must also continue to protect you well. Mr Dijkhoff had a very nice story about a new economic system, in which you use capitalism, the free market, in a way that benefits all people. In my view, this is very much in line with the problem of nitrogen in which we are now dealing, because it is an expression of a deadlocked economic system. I have here the favourite newspaper of Mr Dijkhoff and myself, the Dutch newspaper Dagblad. He printed a very nice picture of the Netherlands last week. That's pictures of particulate matter, about nitrogen, about other emissions. Then you can see that our Brabant and the Randstad are bright red. Fire red means that the economic system emits so much traffic, agriculture, industry there that it actually shuts down our entire country. My appeal to Mr Dijkhoff would be: let us not exclude dogmatic solutions in the event of the nitrogen crisis. Let us also use this crisis as a wake-up call that our economic system needs to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u230	That's a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u231	Sure. In European newspapers there is still a big red mark next to it, the Ruhr area, but in a short bilateral consultation the Foreign Minister assured me that abolishing foreign affairs is not an option. That's about 40% of the nitrogen. I understand what Mr Jetten is saying, but we are also just dealing with a small country in which you want to do a lot and where, in a literal sense, a lot of things come to pass. Within the 60% that we control, we need to find a solution. We're gonna find it, too, but not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u232	I listened to Mr Dijkhoff's speech. I have heard a lot about the Netherlands in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s and how we are now. A number of things have changed. Some things he'd like to go back to. I recognize a number of things, but I also think that much is bogged down in detail, while the General Political Reviews should be about the great trend, the grand line. I have already tried to mention one of these in a previous interruption, namely the increase in collective burdens. The government is getting bigger and bigger, even as a percentage of the economy, and so that government consumes an increasing share of our wealth, in bureaucracy and so on. The other great trend is going, I think, deeper than just the lack of teachers in education or the insecurity in the street... is a feeling that a lot of people in the Netherlands, myself too, have that you don't really feel at home anymore, that you think: is this Netherlands still the Netherlands where I feel at home? Mr Dijkhoff, of course, implies this by talking about the Netherlands of Philips, of Eindhoven, because that was of course also a Netherlands in which there was much less immigration, where there were much less cultural conflicts. The net number of non-Western immigrants who came to the Netherlands under Rutte's government is about the same as the number of residents in the city of Eindhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u233	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u234	So that brings us back to Dijkhoff's story. I'd love to hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u235	Yes. First of all, about these burdens and "the government." The problem is that in "the government" you usually think of towers full of policy officials. Not that we wouldn't be in favour of that. But the government is also growing, of course, because more people are getting old and need more care, because there are more releases to AOW. Those are also things that go up when you just look at the table. Yet I hear very few people say: well, you know, make the government smaller, get rid of my concern or cut me off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u236	Well, no, but for example 36% of the cost of care is bureaucracy. That's something you could cut a lot more into.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u237	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u238	In health care and education you also have bureaucracy, of course. You could do something about that. I also see the increase you would expect if you continued on the old foot compared to the larger group of people who use it. With sensible policies on VWS that increase is mitigated. Then feel at home. I didn't get much further than Eindhoven, because I live in Breda now. It's easy to bridge culturally. I feel like I'm at home there. Mr Baudet mentions migration figures. That's where you have to differentiate again. Many non-Western immigrants who come to work here, integrate or leave after a number of years. I mention the expats and the people who work at high-tech companies in Eindhoven. They don't immediately lead to a feeling of alienation. Then the refugees we receive here. I will not say that I am satisfied with the current numbers. I would like the European borders to be closed, that there should be no crossing, that the region should see which people can be taken care of and which people are taken care of in the Netherlands for a while. I'm for Burden Sharing. After that, you not only look at how long people have been here and whether it is still war in the country of origin, but you also have to see if one fits our society. Resettlement and relocation are already doing so more. The coalition agreement also states that if we invite someone to be taken care of here, there are opportunities to see if the person concerned has the chance to turn with this, so that someone does not have such a great cultural distance from our society. I would like to go further in that, but the coalition agreement states how we do it in this coalition. In addition, there is our party position with which I would like to go further, but I am not in a position to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u239	Okay. Take the Syrians, for example. The first Syrians came here five years ago and received a status. They will now be granted a permanent residence permit. Every week there are a thousand Syrians or so I don't know exactly how many people who get a residence permit. They can stay permanently in the Netherlands and bring their families here. They can have social services for eternity, while most of the country is just safe. The other day I met a few Syrians who said: we can go back to Syria, but we don't feel like it at all, because here we can study for free, here we have a home and this and that. The Netherlands has so far always given that status to Syrians. We have tabled a motion to help those people go back. He didn't support the VVD. Why not? Why don't you support the return of those Syrians? Do you know what kind of problem you're gonna solve? The pressure on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u240	Look, I think once it's safe, people should be able to go back. It's just it's not up to me as a politician to judge whether it's safe there. A country-by-country report should be produced on this subject, assessing the situation: is it safe, for whom is it safe and for whom is it not safe? I hope, of course, that as soon as there is a change which will ensure that it is safe in certain areas, a new report will be produced soon. Then we can tell people who don't have a permanent permit to go back. I would much rather do something about the whole idea of this automatic permanent licence. I'm very honest with you about that. There are differences between what I can do now in a coalition and what I can do when I'm alone in charge. I also make a distinction in this respect so as not to raise expectations among people. I'm trying to get something that's not gonna work right now. We should try that again in another round. Then we will also present as a party how we prefer to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u241	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u242	I believe that this answer reveals a bit of the point I'm trying to make. I don't feel urgency. You say we have to wait and see the country report. In the next round, you're gonna try again, while I think it's a race against the clock. Every week there are a few thousand Syrians who can stay in the Netherlands for the rest of their lives including their whole family and so on. That is why we have tabled a motion calling on the Foreign Minister to travel to Damascus now and to arrange it. Minister, get an exchange agreement and help those people go back. I don't feel that urgency at all. In the example of Eindhoven there was a bit of nostalgia. A comparison is made with migrants from Drenthe as if they were similar to people from a completely different part of the world. The Netherlands is slipping very quickly. People don't feel at home. We see the crime rates, the pressure on social services, the housing market and all of them. Do something about it! Help us, for example, by submitting motions today or tomorrow. Let's move, let's move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u243	I feel the urgency myself, but it has to be established that it is safe. I agree with you: as soon as you can, you have to have a report. You have to send people back. But filing and accepting a motion every week? Of course, that underlines the urgency, you can say. But that does not mean that the objective determination of whether it is safe enough to send people back to it, according to all the rules of the Treaty, is accelerated. Our urgency here, our motions here, do not alter the situation in that country. Once it can be found "it's safe enough to send people back," you shouldn't wait a day. Really, do it right away. That doesn't even need to be asked by the Chamber. I also expect the Secretary of State and the Foreign Minister to feel that urgency and let us know immediately when people can return. We're not waiting to stretch or anything. It's gotta be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u244	It happens...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u245	I'm going to see Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u246	...just! Syria itself has declared that these people are welcome to help rebuild the country and so on. It is simply not true what is said here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u247	This is what I think... You can't say this isn't true. It is true: to be able to send people back, you need rights and obligations. The fact that a regime itself says "let them come back" is not enough. Because a lot of people who have to flee persecution are welcome to be caught. So you have to judge: can it be safe and can it be good? We have procedures for that to be followed. So it's not like it's not true. Then there is another point I would like to correct. I didn't say whether the impression is that migration is now the same as Drenthe back then. Mr Baudet is the last parliamentarians I expected to twist words because he always complains about them. I didn't say that, and then you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u248	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u249	Mr President, I am under attack...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u250	No, no. I'm going to see Mr Asscher. It's not a personal attack, it's just a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u251	A good interim summary. I would like to try to achieve or change a few things in this debate. Last year Mr Dijkhoff mentioned the need for a neighbourhood approach. I don't want to be silly about that: I think he was right and I think he was right about that. In fact, you can see that the vitality is under pressure in a lot of neighbourhoods. Because there's drug crime. Because municipalities don't have enough resources to guide people with care. Because corporations are always assigning too tight rules in vulnerable neighborhoods to people who need proper care. I would like to propose something to Mr Dijkhoff. Isn't it time, now that the corporations are getting more space and we're finally starting with this construction assignment, for a neighbourhood approach, with police officers and resources, to prevent them from going in the wrong direction and with room for corporations to make sure that such a neighborhood lives again? I think that would make a huge difference in the lives of a lot of people who have not heard so much about it so far in this debate. Shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u252	I'm still open to it. Last year, as a group, we chose to serve and propose the sub-parts of the neighbourhood plan at the relevant moments. But if there is yet another need for an integral plan, I will be happy to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u253	It's beautiful. We come up with such a proposal, or you come up with it; I don't care who comes up with it. But I would like to instruct the Cabinet to develop such a neighbourhood approach. There may be several elements in that, but the important thing is that you boost the quality of life in those neighborhoods. I'd love it if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u254	I just wanted to come back to the PAS and the interruption debate with Mr Jetten. I thought for a moment that Mr Dijkhoff did not rule out the possibility that we might have to go to fewer natural areas. It is a story that we hear from VNO-NCW and LTO Netherlands: a solution to the PAS-problem would be that we should move towards fewer nature reserves. I hope that is not one of the choices Mr Dijkhoff is considering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u255	It wasn't an echo of that story. They're really just questions. If the answer to all those parts is no, that's okay. But I want to know first, and that is what our group is working on, how exactly we are shaping it and how other countries are doing it. I hear the wildest stories about that, namely that an animal creates a nature reserve by flying from another nature reserve somewhere. I don't know if that's true; I want to know first. We're taking advantage of each other so much right now. I do not have the idea that we are taking a map of all nature reserves and then going to delete a lot of them. You need to see if the policy we have in it leads to more nature. You have to see whether we have a good way of protecting nature or whether we have also set rules that do not really protect nature, but do hinder a lot. I want to know how other countries do that; I hear stories about that too. Maybe the answer is always: no, there's no room in it. I'll accept that. But I do not want to exclude, just as I do not rule out anything on the one hand, whether we have done things that are obstructive in the interpretation or in the conversion of nature conservation objectives into the precise legal reality, but which do not really help to protect nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u256	I think that we think differently, but in that sense I am reassured that I do not have to look at a proposal that would remove the Ulvenhoutse Forest or the Westduinpark as nature reserves because it would be a peck of nature that would hinder building in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u257	I think I'm gonna have a big fight at home when I drop off the leprechaun forest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u258	That's good to know, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u259	We do not want that on our consciences, of course. Mr Dijkhoff also spoke at the beginning of his speech about Philips and the building of homes for those migrant workers and people from Drenthe. Philips initially did so himself, but what was then established to build and manage the homes? A housing corporation. This was therefore a social initiative with a social responsibility. This also affects Mr Asscher's neighborhood approach question. Does Mr Dijkhoff, without being nostalgic towards the past, believe that such a social initiative, which Mr Philips and the company Philips did at that time through a housing corporation, can also work again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u260	Yes. Honestly, these organizations fall prey to the same temptations as companies do. So yeah, well, if you build and innovate houses and handle them well, but not if you're all going to buy tropical coco's and drive Maserati's. You also saw the same distinction between "good" and "profit." So there's been a lot of washing out there. Power concentration is not necessarily compatible with the original idea of a corporation in which you say "we don't have a boss, but do it together," because at some point you ask one person to manage the minutes and then, if you're not careful, suddenly there's a board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u261	So Mr Dijkhoff says that housing companies that behave badly and act like wrong project developers should be punished and that if they have the good social initiative, as Philips did in the past, you should encourage them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u262	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u263	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u264	But then you have the risk of mission creep, which I would like to mention. We shall be paying attention to this too, because we also have bad experiences with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u265	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u266	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u267	You spoke for 11 minutes and were interrupted for two hours. I think everyone needs a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u268	After the suspension, we'll start the arrangement. Then we proceed with the first term of office.
