ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate in plenary after the general discussion on disinformation and digital interference. That general consultation was held on 21 February last. Five speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations in our midst. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Asscher of the Labour Party. Speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. In response to my and Mrs Buitenweg's motion, the Minister indicated that there would be agreements with Facebook before the European elections on greater transparency. That is what we are waiting for. Well, I do have three other motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that social media companies have too often exceeded rules on online manipulation;]] [[Whereas free elections are of great importance for a strong democracy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether current criminal offences can be extended in the manipulation of elections, so that deliberate online manipulation can also be dealt with in criminal law, and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	Online manipulation; what is Mr Asscher thinking? It's an interesting motion, but can he make that somewhat insightful?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	The Code of Criminal Law has a criminal law article in case you cheat people under false pretenses, which means they vote for another party than they were planning, or so they don't know there are elections. That can happen online. There are also examples of this, where an advertisement said that the elections for the PVV were on 22 March. If people fall for that, it could be a real pain in the ass for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	So it's basically about false information, so if you say something that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	No, it's not just about saying something that doesn't make sense. That is quite common, but if, as with the crime that we already know, you are really deliberately aiming to get people to vote differently or not to vote with false information, that is an attack on democracy. That is why it is also stated in our Code of Criminal Law. The question we are asking is whether the government is asking to find out whether our Code of Criminal Law should be updated on this point, so that you can deal with such crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finalizing, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yeah, I know we should be worried about that, but I don't know which Pandora box we're opening. I don't mean to be a jerk, but I can remember a lot of PvdA election promises, like abolishing VAT. Then the PvdA came into the government and then she didn't. Then you could say: that was false information. So I could go to court and get Mr. Asscher convicted. I wouldn't want that. So when is it fake information and who cares?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	I am not talking about the first day that the PVV tolerated a government and raised the retirement age. That's not what I mean. What I mean is that you are telling voters that the election is not taking place or is taking place and that it does not allow them to use their democratic rights. I think we should be able to agree that you want to punish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that there are several examples of foreign interference in elections;]] [[Whereas free elections are of great importance for a strong democracy;]] [[calls on the Government to provide by law that political advertisements can only be placed by persons and organisations established in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	Finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas free elections are of great importance for a strong democracy;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the forms of online manipulation and the possibilities to tackle them more strictly, including the possibility of monitoring and sanctioning, and to inform the Court thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. Mr Middendorp van de VVD. Two minutes' speaking time for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have to keep the Netherlands safe. We also need to keep the Netherlands safe online and protect against digital foreign interference. The picture in this area looks good before the forthcoming elections, as I say in connection with the AA. It is reassuring that, at the request of VVD and D66, the Minister will investigate the role of social media and internet search engines. There are not only fake news, but also, as a result of the previous debate, very different ways of affecting the integrity of our elections. With a campaign against fake news and that research we are not yet there, because technological developments are going very fast. In Germany, the Facebook and Twitter accounts of all politicians, except one party, have been hacked. That is why I want a Dutch action plan to prevent, signal and punish foreign digital interference. Mr President, this is the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new technologies such as social media and internet search engines can influence our democratic rule of law and the threat of this kind of (foreign) digital interference becomes more concrete;]] [[Considering that the PS and EU elections in 2019 will investigate digital interference and involve external interference;]] [[believes that we should work together on this issue at European level but that we should also have sufficient knowledge and skills in the Netherlands about possible digital interference;]] [[calls on the Government to make an action plan against digital interference in response to the results of the investigation, to indicate how it will prevent, signal and sanction this, including the recommendations of the Remkes Commission on digital campaigns, and to inform the Court of Auditors about this for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	Digital interference towards the elections is a bad thing. It is good that the VVD pays attention to that. But look at NRC's research on the 200,000 tweets from Russia. In particular, they have stirred up the anti-Islam sentiment. Do you therefore believe that in our campaign and in our research we should tackle discrimination against religious communities and inciting anti-Islamic sentiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	I think we should avoid all digital interference from the outside and the inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Öztürk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	So we must also prevent anti-Islam sentiments from being stirred up. So you agree as a VVD. Do you think the Minister is doing enough right now, or do you think the Minister is doing nothing at the moment? Do you think the Minister should do something more to deal with these anti-Islam sentiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	If politician accounts are hacked, that is digital interference, in a way that we must resist in our democracy. I made that very clear. That's why I wanted to file this motion. Mr Öztürk is heading in a very different direction, which I do not think was entirely caught in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Öztürk, you have something to say, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	I understand the VVD doesn't want to answer this. I can see why he's going around it. But my point is, look at NRC's research. The greatest damage has been done to the Muslims in the Netherlands. Apart from the politicians who suffer from it towards the elections, the Muslim community suffers from it very much. Are you prepared to ask the Minister to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	I have put a very clear question to the Minister about tackling foreign digital interference. If Mr Öztürk wishes to table a motion on the basis of a NRC article, he must certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you. Mr. Bosma has a short question, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	The colleague of the VVD complains that there is now confusion, but he himself is the main culprit. Digital interference: what the hell is that? Foreign digital interference. So if anyone has a website in Brasschaat, or 100 meters across the border, that's foreign digital interference. What's that? Then the police should be sent to Brasschaat because someone has a website that contains things that don't add up? It sounds nice, but here again a box of Pandora is opened with what is not allowed. Foreign digital interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	I'm interested in foreign and domestic digital interference, including Brasschaat. By the way, it's not about a website. I have mentioned an example. Imagine in Germany all accounts being hacked in the last two weeks before the election. I assume that Mr Bosma would not be charmed by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr. Bosma with one final follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u28	Then the colleague of the VVD should simply come forward with a motion on hacking. Then he has to say hacking should be banned, but you're talking about foreign digital interference. I mean, the Internet is quite international and foreign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u29	The technology's moving fast. It may well be that both Mr Bosma and I do not yet fully know what can be done technologically at the elections of 2026. I believe that there should be enough knowledge and skills in the Netherlands so that we can guarantee the integrity of our electoral processes and have the power to be resilient to any new technology being misused for digital interference from home or abroad, including Brasschaat. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u30	You also have an interruption by Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u31	It won't stop, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Bosma, in the sense that when we talk about digital interference, we have to look very closely at the definitions, because before you know it you will cross the border of freedom of expression. I have always heard Mr Middendorp reasoning along that line. I do have the following practical question. You and D66 will table a motion to make an action plan. Mr Asscher tabled a motion on my behalf a few minutes ago, which also says that it is necessary to identify what forms there are and that there should be sanctions and monitoring possibilities. Where is the fundamental difference between these two motions? 'Cause otherwise, we should be able to hang out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr Van der Molen does indeed know me as someone who is on the side of freedom of expression and freedom of the press in all the discussions we have had on the definition of fake news. So that's where we'll find each other. The same applies to the phenomenon of digital interference. I also heard the motion a few minutes ago. For me, a very important point is that new technology makes much more possible in terms of manipulation of our electoral processes. So I don't want to stick to just "disinformation" or "fake news"; I want to catch the hacking of accounts of politicians in the action plan I proposed with D66. So that's an important difference, but I'm definitely gonna look into what's just been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u33	This brings you to the end of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you. Then I will go to the next speaker, and that is Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the discussion we had on tackling disinformation and digital interference. We are on the threshold of elections and there are always debates in this house about how safe these elections are and whether they can be fair. Democracy is the most valuable concept in a country like the Netherlands. So we should not be naive when we see all kinds of new developments in the 21st century affecting how freely we can do our elections here. Today there are reports from England and France that it is intended from outside a country to influence discussions. We saw that in a referendum in Ireland, where foreign parties were very focused from the United States trying to influence the outcome of that referendum by pumping timelines full of sponsored messages in the hope that another country would vote as they would like to see in their own country. It is therefore a good thing that Mr Asscher has also tabled motions on my behalf to see, among other things, whether and how this online manipulation can also be dealt with by criminal law and, above all, to agree that political advertisements are only acceptable if they come from persons or organisations based in the Netherlands. And then there is always a loophole in that law, but it is a very clear line to draw. We do not want foreign interference in our free elections. We can influence our own elections enough. Parties are free to invest as much as possible in this, but we do not accept foreign interference if that would happen in a physical sense. As far as the CDA is concerned, we do not accept that either when it happens online. We therefore wholeheartedly support the motions. I'm very curious how the Minister appreciates the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u37	My colleague from the CDA is talking about sponsor messages. Yesterday I saw a sponsor message from VNO-NCV, in which your colleague Amhaouch was asked why he did not choose DENK. A week before the election, VNO-NCV, a sponsor message on Facebook and the question why he didn't choose DENK. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u38	VNO-NCW releases a magazine called "Forum." I do not want to draw any political conclusions from this, but it shows Members of Parliament from all kinds of different parties. I don't know if you've been in it before, or a colleague of DENK. But it often asks how one looks at business or how one looks at a topical subject, but sometimes they are also asked about their motivation. My colleague's motivation is, among other things, his Islamic origin and the choice to participate in this Parliament precisely because of that origin for the CDA. On the question of whether he would fit DENK better, he indicated that he would not know why. And I can very well imagine him giving that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u39	Finalizing, Mr Öztürk. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u40	That's a very long-winded explanation. For me, VNO-NCV is an organisation for business. I call entrepreneurship, economics. And then one week before the election, they question a CDA member in an article with the headline "Why didn't you choose DENK?" And with a sponsor message! Is that a bit: we're going to support the CDA campaign a little bit and promote the DENK-basing a little bit? We should therefore ask each other these questions when we are talking about sponsor messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u41	Well, well, you're an expert bashing, so you'll be able to judge that very well. It's VNO-NCW, by the way, not NCV. And that's a little joke, because I spoke to my colleague. You spoke to him yesterday in the State Room on that article. You asked him why the hell he said something about DENK. Well, well, you're free to do that. VNO-NCW is a Dutch organisation. So if they want to interfere in an election campaign for any reason, I would say: I do not know whether that should be the case. But under the proposal that is being made here, all civil society organisations from the Netherlands are free to intervene in a campaign. I also hear Wake-up Animal on Radio 1 broadcast all kinds of puffy chicken commercials as soon as the elections get closer. I personally find that annoying, but it must be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u42	Do I hear the CDA say here: no foreign interference in election campaigns in the Netherlands? That is quite a statement, because I would like to mention just what Mr Weber, for example, has brought about by the CDA, or other prominent Christian Democratic leaders around elections. It's gotta be possible. So, as Mr Van der Molen does, it is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u43	A PVV'er who attacks someone because something is absolutely stated: I always find that a very nice one. In any case, what I wanted to say is that we do not accept that if we hold Dutch elections, foreign influence takes place. The context of the European elections is, of course, very complex. This also applies, for example, to financing political parties. I believe that every euro from outside the European Union should be banned. This is a little more difficult in Europe, because in European elections we have European groups of parties. And they also invest in a campaign. So if we are going to make a law, we will also have to look very strongly at that good distinction that Mr Bosma is bringing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Then I give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's in the middle of some weird game. It starts with three pages in De Telegraaf. Fake news, that has something to do with Russia. If we have parliamentary debates, we're gonna kick this minister's ass with the question: what exactly is fake news? Actually, there's no answer to that. At the end she mumbles about the Russian ambassador on the MH17. In response to parliamentary questions, she does come up with some sort of definition. Then it's about collusive influence by state actors, so it's specifically about governments, fine. Then the minister will be in the state service, with Mrs Jinek, and then there will all be examples. It's mostly Trump, who said things that don't add up. My group leader has said something that is not right. So then it's about something completely different, namely things that don't add up. And then... I listened to Sky Radio on Monday and then the Minister's advertising campaign suddenly comes along, which is actually toe-curving. If you look at that page, you read things like "with special computer programs people can easily edit photos." Nounou, chairman, the Photoshop computer program has been on the market for 30 years, but it has got through to this ministry! It's a toe-curving advertising campaign. It is really just Miss Ank of De Luinenmother, who sits on her knees to explain how compúters work! 'Cause, yeah, you've got the Internet these days, and people are yelling all kinds of things. Then you have to check it out and how do you check it out? Well, by watching the television news, because apparently they are telling the truth! I would like to know: what is that, fake news? Yeah, sometimes there are politicians who say things that don't add up, but is it up to the mistress to say "that's right and that's wrong"? It's a very strange road this minister is going on. Are they still state actors? Because all those examples I read in her campaign are not about state actors. Two things. One, how much does that campaign cost? 'Cause it looks really expensive. And two, I still have a modest motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop all public campaigns on fake news,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u46	However, a question to Mr Bosma, because he is not at all concerned about the new technology and the possibilities it offers to hack into his Twitter account, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yes. That's hacking, and that's criminally punishable, I think. And as far as it is not yet criminally punishable, that must be done, because that is very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u48	Is it possible, then, that there may be other new forms of digital interference, whether from the interior or from abroad, which we in the Chamber also have to think about, because those rules of our democracy may not be entirely up-to-date, given the rapid technological developments? So I am not asking specifically for fake news, but I am asking for new forms of.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u49	The question is whether the Chamber should think. I think the Chamber should always think about everything. Yeah, if there's hacking, that needs to be addressed. If broad, vague terms such as "digital interference" are used, it is dangerous, because digital is quite a lot. And the essence of the internet is interference, namely: you open a website and you read there. You look on Twitter and you see what's going on there. That's interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps very briefly, because I would like to say to Mr Bosma that if we think about it and if something comes out of it, then perhaps we will do something. At least that's what we're gonna do with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u51	That reassures me, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr Öztürk has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u53	The PVV doesn't want to deal with fake news. I can imagine that when I look at the Russian troll army. With 200,000 tweets they tried to stir up an anti-islam sentiment, and Geert Wilders and his PVV could count on Russian trolls. So you're thinking, "Well, let's have those trolls," because thanks to those trolls, we have an anti-islam sentiment in the Netherlands and we can get some seats. So basically, you're here arguing for foreign interference. You will also receive money from abroad, from the Horowitz organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u54	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u55	So here you are pleading for fake news and trolls to eventually win the election yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mr Öztürk actually supports my point that we still do not know what we are talking about. So the minister kicks off, three pages in De Telegraaf. It's about Russia. Then, at the end of the story, she sits with Jinek to complain about Trump and Wilders. She says very shocking things there. For example, she talks about "setting groups against each other by illuminating a little both sides." So the Minister does not want both sides to be highlighted in discussions either. We are talking, for example, about Catalonia and France. And then Mr Öztürk comes up with other examples. We still don't know what it's about in the end. There seems to be a problem, but we can't get a definition of it, because everyone's making it up. See that crazy "Miss Ank" campaign the Minister has now set up. There was also talk of Russian trolls. We have a secret service for that. Secret Service has to take action against that. Mr Öztürk visited the AIVD yesterday during our fine work visit. The secret service must therefore act against this kind of foreign interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr Öztürk, one final final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u58	We don't have to investigate this. 200,000 tweets of trolls to grow an anti-islam sentiment, to get people to vote for Geert Wilders and the PVV. You're just a troll party. The PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr Öztürk, you already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr. Öztürk, you are often waving messages from NRC Handelsblad that don't add up. An intern would have written a cup upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u61	Read it carefully!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u62	If we're gonna go after the body of D66, we can spend a lot of hours here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I give the floor to the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Öztürk of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fake news is a concern;]] [[noting that regular media coverage is not always factually correct;]] [[noting that careful fact checks can determine whether messages (largely) where, (largely) are false or uncheckable;]] [[calls on the Government to make funds available for independent scientific research into the percentage of factually incorrect reports in the national newspapers and the largest national news sites, and to provide the Chamber and the media concerned with this research in full,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr Öztürk is mistaken, because he thinks he is in his home country, Turkey. He wants the State to search all the newspapers and that the State, the government, is going to say: that message is correct and that message is wrong. We were just talking about foreign interference, but the interference of the Erdogan Group should be combated as much as possible, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u66	When I read the investigation like that, I think the PVV has become some sort of Putin party, with a troll army. She's become a troll party. Let it be clear: 200,000 tweets to support the PVV in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u67	That point was already made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u68	My point is very clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u69	No, no, no, Mr. Öztürk. This point has been made. I don't want this kind of over-and-rifle all the time. To be honest, I don't think that's a pass. Let's move on to the debate. Continue your speech and read out the motions you have prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr President, I have been asked a question and I have the right to answer it. My point is that the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u71	You have one minute and nineteen seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u72	No, no, no. I am now answering the question asked by a PVV. I have a right to answer that. My answer is as follows. First look at your own foreign interference, because of the Horowitz organisation and Russian trolls the PVV is a troll party and then you can ask questions to DENK. Mr. Chairman. My second motion is also about foreign interference. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NRC's investigation into 200,000 tweets of Russian internet trolls showed that these trolls are also active in the Netherlands, demonstrating that they "tryed to fuel anti-islam sentiment and tried to make anti-islam hashtags trending";]] [[noting that the government has launched a campaign against fake news;]] [[calls on the government to point out in the campaign against fake news the Russian trolls trying to stir up anti-Islam sentiments in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u73	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NRC's investigation into 200,000 tweets of Russian internet trolls shows that these trolls are also active in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that this study showed that Geert Wilders and the PVV could count on support from the Russian trolls, who called several times to vote for the PVV in the run-up to the Lower House elections;]] [[noting that this study also showed that the Russian trolls in the Netherlands tried to stimulate anti-islam sentiment via Twitter and tried to make anti-islam hashtags trending;]] [[invites the government to investigate whether the Russian internet trolls active in the Netherlands worked for clients and who they might be clients, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I note that I do not have the last three motions yet, but I am sure they will come in the course of answering the other motions. I would like to thank Members for their input. It's an old phenomenon in a new jacket. We have, of course, also noted this in the AA. The digital world and the speed with which things go give this extra impact. Much of the answer to the question of how to deal with this now lies in transparency, awareness and cooperation. This includes an approach whereby I do not think we should rule out any means in advance. At the same time, this means that we must be careful in what you are committed to and how you shape it. But I also see in the motions, which I will judge in a moment, that there is very active consideration of how we can do that. I appreciate that very much. I would like to say to Mr Asscher: yes, that is correct. The motion by him and Mrs Buitenweg, who asked for cooperation with Facebook and transparency, led to Facebook's commitment to take action on the road to the European elections, probably at the end of this month. They may not come in time for our Provincial State elections, but I confirm for the rest what he just said. Furthermore, many motions have been tabled. I thought there were a few more questions. Mr Van der Molen asked how free and fair our elections are. I think that might have been a more rhetorical question, because they should always be free and honest. That is exactly what I am doing: when it comes to this issue, but also in all kinds of ways. We have often talked about this. He noted that new reports of influence were coming from other countries as well. I think it is important to keep an eye on what is happening elsewhere, precisely in order to prevent us from being the victims here, if that is possible. I also note that Mr Bosma's treatment of me has really changed dramatically. He has given me many nicknames, but Miss Ank from De Luizenmother I can add a more positive way. So thank you for that. He also asked what desinfo really is. In my view, I have been very consistent in using the term disinformation whenever it comes to a sender who deliberately creates and distributes false or misleading information, with the aim of influencing public opinion. The EU Action Plan also has this approach. We must realise that it could often be about political influence, but that the definition itself does not rule out that it can also be about economic influence, namely about models that simply make money. But my focus has always been: collusive influence by a state actor. That has the extra attention of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u75	Indeed, at the end the Minister adds "by a state actor." This is also apparent from the answer given to the parliamentary questions. It is therefore a matter of state actors. So it's about governments. Those are state actors. If I look at this minister's "Miss Ank" website, I can see that it's just a "how to deal with the Internet" course. It says, sometimes people say things that don't add up. You'll have to check it by watching the TV news. It also says that sometimes jokes are made and that you have to watch out for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u76	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u77	There is no evidence that this is specifically a matter of state actors. It's just about information you might have to be critical about. So why does her definition of "state actors" have anything to do with her current "Miss Ank" website?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u78	That website, that was actually another question. Mr Bosma has also tabled a motion on this. That is a campaign that has been asked by the House of Representatives. That's a real awareness campaign you need to reach out to people. We do that in schools with media wisdom. Now we are trying to reach a larger target group, including older people, who do use the new social media, but are often not familiar with the way they work. That campaign is, of course, designed so that you can reach as broad a audience as possible and make aware of what is happening. The Chamber has not asked for a campaign in the direction of the state actors that are influencing us. The Chamber has asked for a campaign in the direction of the Dutch who may be the victims of disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mr. Bosma, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u80	At Jinek, the minister is also telling us that this is about fighting fake news. She also gives all kinds of vague examples of this, but I note that the Minister first comes with fake news that has to do with state actors. Those are governments. But now there is going to be a campaign about things that are wrong. That is something completely different, while the Minister brings that to see her performance at Jinek. under the same heading, namely 'fake news'. So what's fake news is constantly shifting. That brings me to the essence of the whole story: what does this minister want? This minister is not so satisfied with the fact that people who think differently make noise about Brexit, about Trump, about Geert Wilders, about Orbán. That is the story she wants to counter, because when examples are mentioned, you always see that these are the examples that are mentioned. See her gig at Jinek. That's the essence of the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u81	Well, I think Mr Bosma knows very well that I am staying away from the examples he mentions. It may of course be that an editorial board of a programme itself gives a number of examples. The editors are free to do so. Mr Bosma has also noted that there are no examples in the campaign at all. In this respect, I keep strictly to the agreement with the Chamber. I also think it is very important that, as a government, we do not sit in the chair of others and do what others should do, for example journalists, or scientists involved and the platforms themselves. I'm not gonna do that as a government. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 60 by Mr Asscher, together with Mr Van der Molen, asks to investigate, briefly, whether online manipulation can also be dealt with criminally. I thought I had already made a commitment in this direction in the AA when I said I wanted to take stock of what legislation can be used in this area. I have also said that I can imagine that criminal law could play a role in this, but that we should look closely at this. That is how I read this motion, and that is why I would like to leave it to the Chamber to decide on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u82	Computer trespassing is just a criminal offence, Article 138 criminal law. That's just a fact. There's a maximum of one year in prison. Then what does this motion add to that? It's not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u83	Perhaps Mr Bosma should have asked the author the same question. I read the motion in this way and we also discussed it in the AO that she sees on disinformation. So she does not see what is already punishable, but what is not yet covered by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u84	Clear. The motion in part No. 61.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u85	The second motion by Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Molen sees political advertisements. I think that is a consideration that belongs to shaping the new law on political parties that I have announced and which we are now working on. For example, the Remkes Committee's report has made suggestions for this. We have already talked about this at other times. I intend to propose that law, and I would like to include those advertisements. As far as I am concerned, it should be there, so with that explanation I have a positive basic position and I would like to leave the opinion on the motion to the Chamber. The third motion Asscher/Van der Molen, the motion in part No. 62 is about the possibilities for supervision and sanctions. I actually read the motion as a follow-up to the first motion: if you were to do so, you would have to deal specifically with supervision and sanctions. I would like to involve this in the drafting of the first motion and leave it to the House to decide. I'm at the fourth motion, in part No. 63 tabled by Mr Middendorp, also on behalf of Mr Verhoeven. That motion brings together a few things. A number of things are already going on, for example, the research that I have promised in connection with the campaign and the two elections that are to come, in which the University of Amsterdam is also involved, such as the EU Action Plan and the rapid alert system that has been set up, such as the agreements, cooperation and legislation that we are going to look at in relation to the tech companies. Then, on that basis, we need to consider what actions might be needed. They could then fall down in recommendations. I am certainly prepared to present it for the budget debate in the autumn. I would therefore like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. If I have counted correctly, I am therefore at the fifth motion, the motion in part No. 64 by Mr Bosma. The campaign started at the request of the Chamber. Again, that campaign is not about what is and is not true. It's about increasing media wisdom. I'd like to continue with that, so I advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u86	I had also asked a question, but it does not answer the Minister: how much does the campaign cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u87	Oh, yeah, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u88	'Cause that won't be small.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u89	This campaign is similar to other public campaigns and costs about 1 million euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u90	One million euros? I don't know if the minister himself has ever looked at that website staatkritisch.nl, but there is written in a kind of copywriter-Dutch. I don't want any extras. People are gonna get down on their knees and see what's going on on that Internet. There's been a movie. The Minister isn't going to tell me that all this cost me a million dollars?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr Bosma has asked a question. I did forget to answer that, so I'm glad he reminded me. The cost of this campaign is around 1 million euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u92	Thank you. We're going to motion number six.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u93	Yes. The sixth motion, in part No. 65, is by Mr Öztürk of DENK. I think it is very important to do research, and I have therefore agreed to investigate the two elections on 20 March and 23 May. But I want to stay very far away from the substantive assessment of news, from the work of journalists. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. In his second motion, in part No. 66, Mr Öztürk reiterates what he said earlier in the AO, namely that research has been carried out by a newspaper, NRC in this case, which shows something, and that he believes that the government should do something with that substantive fact. Well, I have just explained that we do want a campaign and that we do want people to be aware of the fact that this kind of thing is happening, but to show what exactly is wrong about it, that is what journalists are for. They're doing the right thing. So that's not part of the campaign. So I advise against that motion. Unfortunately, Mr Öztürk, that also applies to motion number seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u94	We're going to motion number eight now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u95	Oh, number eight? Excuse me, I'm wrong. This motion, in part No. 67, asks for further information on what has been demonstrated by the media and for further information to the Chamber. When I have information, of course, I will always inform the Chamber, but this is also reflected in a certain content of what is happening about disinformation, a section that Mr Öztürk considers important. But I want to stay away from the contents, so I'm not going to recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u96	We all don't want foreign interference. At one point, you said that journalists should do their job. They did! They have shown that the PVV has gained seats thanks to the trolls and that the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u97	Yes, but Mr Öztürk, we are now going to talk about the appreciation of the Minister of your motion. So we're not going to do the debate again or make a nice video for the campaign. We're going to go now to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u98	I understand you've done a course or training, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u99	No, we're here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u100	... I'm trying to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mr. Öztürk. We're here to listen to the Minister's appreciation. That's what your question is about. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u102	We are here as parliamentarians to question the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u103	Yes, and you're going to ask a question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u104	As a Member of Parliament, I must be allowed to ask my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u105	Yes, and I'm offering you that space, focused on the Minister's appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u106	But I have to back up my story. The danger of foreign interference I must be able to tell you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u107	No, Mr. Öztürk, no. Then you haven't understood what an interruption is about. An interruption is a short question, focused on the subject of discussion. I will give you the opportunity to do so, and you will do so now. Otherwise, I'm gonna cut you off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u108	I've filed a motion on foreign interference with trolls. I have the right to question the Minister. If journalists show the minister, me and everyone that there is foreign interference with trolls, can she have it investigated further by our services? I'll ask the Minister again. And can she then inform the Chamber exactly where it comes from, what danger it poses and how we can deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u109	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u110	Since Mr Öztürk is now focusing very much on the work of the security services, I have to say that in the work of those services, which is done under the Intelligence and Security Services Act, there is, of course, relatively little room for public information to be provided to the Chamber. There are other channels for this, and I take it for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mr. Öztürk, a brief round.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u112	One of my motions was also about getting scientific research done. So money must be made available to scientists so that they can track fake news and show what it does to people. I would also like to hear a reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u113	I answered that. That investigation is ongoing. I have already explained this in the AA. However, that research does not take into account that particular aspect which Mr Öztürk highlights. Because that is where we are again talking about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u114	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on disinformation and digital interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u115	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber. Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we continue with a VAO Discrimination.
