ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the VAO International Track. The general consultations took place on 6 February. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Welcome, of course, to the members and people who follow this in a different way. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Schonis of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We've had a good AO. The Secretary of State has presented a fine vision for rail and rail towards 2040. That's a very nice long-term vision. For the short term, D66 wants the cabinet to allow travellers to make a good, sustainable choice between different forms of travel. That is why I tabled a motion together with Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks. I'll read it briefly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is difficult for international travellers to make a fair comparison at travel time, price and environmental impact between different modes of transport to arrive at destination;]] [[Whereas websites of different travel organisations only offer the aircraft or car option to travel to the destination;]] [[calls on the Government to allow a fair comparison for travellers on travel time, price and environmental impact between cars, trains and aircraft together with the travel industry (e.g. by concluding a green deal) on routes to major European cities such as Brussels, Paris, Frankfurt and London,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-817]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have had a very good AO International Track. You can see that during this cabinet period, the international trail comes back repeatedly. Firstly, to connect the cities, but also to connect the border regions. And in order to do that well, we need to do well with our partners in the regions or in the provinces. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas cross-border public transport of persons and goods is important for the development of, in particular, border counties;]] [[Whereas international rail links with major cities such as London and Berlin are also important due to climate change;]] [[Whereas sufficient coordination and coherence of the State is lacking;]] [[invites the Government to discuss at least annual progress, coordination and coherence of the international rail system with the provinces concerned and to report to the Court on the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-818]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. When we talk about international railroad, we have some symbols. We have often said that the three-country train, Maastricht-Aachen-Liège, is very important. A lot has been said about that. I'm not saying anything about that right now. The Amsterdam-Berlin train is also important towards the future. It is important for the CDA and a number of other parties that we examine carefully how this is going to work. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and faster train connections to and from Berlin are desirable;]] [[noting that the government mentions different route options for this connection (such as the current route via Hengelo and a route via Arnhem) for which a follow-up investigation will be initiated;]] [[calls on the Government to fully examine the various routes for the short, medium and long term in the investigation of the Amsterdam-Berlin route and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Schonis and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-819]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we've had a good AO. I have once again expressed my concerns about the future of the direct connection of the Eurostar from the Netherlands to London. I think there are Chamberwide motions that see on the execution of that direct line at the end of this year. During the AO I got the feeling that we, as the Netherlands, mainly wait for steps from the three other countries before we take a step. I would like to reiterate the commitment of the Secretary of State of J&V that he will look at the possibilities of the Netherlands to adapt to the three other countries, so that we can realize the direct connection that we are actually waiting for Chamberwide, really by the end of this year and there will be no delay. I'll make that request to the Secretary of State for J&V. Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion for the rest. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u7	Mr. Chairman. No growth of Schiphol. No Lelystad Airport. Let us bet on fast trains for distances within Europe. More trains, less flying. Our petition has been signed 16,000 times in a day and a half. To speed this up, I have the next two motions. First of all: from now on, by train to Brussels. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the slots available at Schiphol Airport are scarce and that it is a national interest to use them wisely and as far as possible for essential routes;]] [[noting that commercial flights between Amsterdam and Brussels are repeated on a daily basis;]] [[Whereas the train on this route is almost always faster and always better for the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with all relevant parties and to agree with them on the phasing-out of scheduled flights between Amsterdam and Brussels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u8	Then: by night train through Europe. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the night train may potentially be an attractive alternative to medium-range air travel;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what new international routes have potential and what is needed to achieve them, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-821]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u9	I have a question about the first motion, about phasing out flights from Amsterdam to Brussels. That's a lot of business flights. I understand that you should apply this if the track is a good alternative. But what do you think will happen if we phase out the business flights and release slots at Schiphol Airport? Who do you think fills them out by?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u10	I think it is very important that we have a situation of scarcity right now. Unlike this cabinet, GroenLinks does not want the growth of aviation and does not want the growth of aviation at Schiphol Airport. You have to deal with the scarcity as best you can. As far as we are concerned, it is really a shame to allow flights to take place for a distance that can be travelled with the Thalys within an hour and a half. I think we should see how you use the available space you get as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u11	I take it that you are not in favour of using holiday flights to southern Spain to take away the slots that are being cut off from business traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u12	I think that Mr Amhaouch is right to make a point: we have a selectivity policy that is not currently working. So we need a lot more grip. GroenLinks is always in favour of more control of aviation rather than growth. This is how you use the capacity you have as best you can. Flying to a destination while you'd be in the heart of the city by train within an hour and a half is bullshit to us. I also believe that the debate has exchanged the view that all parties agree that we should stop flying to Brussels as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u13	Thank you. I see you have another motion. Or one last comment, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u14	We also signed with the CDA's motion on speeding the train to Berlin. I hope to see the variant of an extra train with few stops well examined. Finally, London. The Chamber has repeatedly stated that we want this Eurostar to continue as soon as possible. When can we expect agreement on treaties? I would urge the Cabinet to implement these agreements immediately as soon as there is agreement between the countries and services concerned, so if it is clear what needs to be done in practice. The fact that a treaty also has a legislative path in this Chamber does not therefore have to lead to additional delays, because we already know in advance from the motions adopted that the Chamber is in favour of a large majority. Mr. Chairman. More trains, less flying! Let's speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u15	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u16	Mr President, thank you very much. We had a good debate with the two Secretary of State. During that debate I also made a point of the Eindhoven-Düsseldorf section. I do have a motion for that, and I am going to read it and submit it, but I suspect that I might get some negative advice on that. That is why I have a possible alternative, which I will name. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be a new train link between Eindhoven and Düsseldorf;]] [[Whereas, in the context of the tender of this concession, the operator of the Dutch main rail network is allocated the proceeds of the route between Eindhoven and the Dutch border;]] [[Whereas this scheme is intended to stimulate cooperation and optimization of timetables, but at the same time disrupts the level playing field and potentially favours one player;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to remove this provision and, instead, to impose on the holders of both concessions a reciprocal obligation to cooperate and coordinate both the tendering procedure for Eindhoven-Düsseldorf and the new HRN concession, which will apply from 2025, to ensure that the two schedules are as uniform as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-822]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u17	I see that this raises a question for Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u18	This point was also raised by Mr Ziengs during the AA. I replied to his question that I am also in favour of a level playing field. I just wonder what advantage Mr Ziengs sees for the NS on this point. That's a little unclear to me. The NS does the main rail network and I do not understand how the NS would benefit from this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u19	I think that is what I said in the debate. If you have domestic connections, you get a fee when people get in and out on your domestic part of the international line. If you want to become a concessionaire in the future, it could give you an advantage. I therefore also asked at that time whether the ACM could investigate whether there is a level playing field. That would be my second point, should this motion be discouraged: at least let us ask the ACM specifically whether the intention to allocate the revenues to the HNR operator affects the level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u21	Finally, Mr President. Is it known to Mr Ziegs that other parties who drive the main rail network, for example the Thalys, also simply pay a consumption fee to the NS, because they are simply concessionaires?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u22	I am quite clear on the subject. I know that is happening, but I just want to see examined by the ACM whether that can indeed be an advantage in a future tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u23	I'm just trying to get a little clarity. Do I understand that in his motion Mr Ziengs is asking a little whether a possible future concessionaire will receive two revenues if that concessionaire has not only the concession for the HRN but also for Eindhoven-Düsseldorf? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u24	In any case, the intention is to look closely at whether the fees provided, the so-called dotation scheme, do not lead to an uneven playing field towards the procurement process. That's what my motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u25	Clear enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u26	Yes, I do feel a bit about that level playing field and that discussion, because we see something happening around HRN and what that looks like. The party that is going to do that seems to be getting a bit in the picture, and we are happy about that in itself. However, I share the view that this type of procurement needs to be clarified in order to prevent us from getting a false construction. So that's what I'm sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u27	Thank you very much. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u28	That was indeed the intention of my motion. That is why, in my reply to Mr Laçin, I indicated that it would be nice to ask the ACM specifically, and that is actually the request I have, should my motion be discouraged, whether, at that point, the intention to allocate the proceeds to the HRN operator is to examine whether that affects a level playing field. This could then possibly be organised in parallel with the further steps of the procurement process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u29	Thank you. I see that this calls for an interruption by Mr Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u30	I have one final question for Mr Ziengs. What is more important for you now, that level playing field and having it examined by the ACM, or progress on the procurement procedure and its roll-out? After all, if you have another mid-term test done, you will also delay the tendering procedure and the moment when passengers can drive from Eindhoven to Düsseldorf. So I wonder what you think is the most important thing about those two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u31	It is assumed here that this would slow down the procurement process. I believe that I have also brought into the debate I have had the opportunity to do twice in the past the Procurement Act that you can quite simply make a number of changes in the package of requirements of the tender that you are putting out, if you want to do so with each other. That doesn't have to lead to a delay at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u32	We are not going to repeat the whole debate that you have already had, so you can say a few words, but then we will move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u33	I take Mr Ziengs' comment as a question to the Secretary of State. Then she can come back to that in the answer and I will listen to it with excitement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u34	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u35	I doubt whether I should ask my question to Mr Ziengs or perhaps in a moment to the Secretary of State, but has the Chamber not already asked the Secretary of State to have the ACM look at that level playing field? I think the Secretary of State also said that that happened. But apparently it didn't happen after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u36	We have indeed received a letter on this subject in response to the question. It was assumed that the ACM would have looked into it, but there was no written report on it. That is why I have insisted on this once again, and in fact I am doing so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u37	Thank you very much. Thank you for your input. Then we have come to the end of the Chamber's input. We're not suspending, because we're going through with the enthusiasm. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I turn to the questions put by Mr Laçin and Mrs Kröger. I would like to repeat to the Chamber what I said in the AA. I do not need any encouragement, because I would like nothing more than that train to go straight from Amsterdam and Rotterdam to London as quickly as possible without switching to Brussels. However, the Netherlands is the asking party on one last part if we join the three-country treaty which the other three countries already have. I have already explained in the AA that this is a provision which is not compatible with Dutch law on justice. That Treaty gives officials from other Member States the power to take people into detention in the Netherlands or to apply coercive measures. To explain this: the power contained in the treaty is that, if you are through the British border control at Amsterdam station, you will be in an area where British border guards could arrest you, even if you are a Dutchman, and can take you on the train to England, without an extradition agreement or anything like that underneath. This is simply in no way compatible with Dutch legislation. We are the asking party. I have the confirmation from the other three Member States that they want to deal with this as pragmatically as possible. It is not so much a question of legal exploration, but we are also suggesting pragmatic solutions, and I hope that in the coming weeks I will be able to come out with the others, specifically with the British. I can make that commitment to you: we are doing our utmost to achieve it, but the only thing that cannot be done is precisely what is in that treaty, because then we will find ourselves in a completely different legal minefield.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u39	I need to get the last sentence of the Secretary of State into my head. But I'll just put my question to the Secretary of State. I understand the problem that we are asking on the judicial side on this point. But can we not find in the treaties that we are about to conclude, both bilaterally and with the three other countries, an interim clause, in which the British police do not take the people but simply hand them over to the country where they are located? Is that possible, legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u40	That is exactly what we would like, but we also need the agreement of the others and their willingness to change the treaty as it is now, or to make other agreements in addition to that treaty. That is exactly the question we are asking. I say to the Chamber that we are asking for it. But I have heard the other three Member States express their willingness. The word "pragmatic" falls very often. We are providing their promise to look pragmatically at it with as many practical ideas as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u41	Pragmatic, practical, I'm very happy to hear it. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to continue to do so. I would ask you to inform the Chamber as soon as possible if there are any developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u42	That's the only way. We're already in injury time. As soon as we figure out whether there are any developments, I will inform the Chamber. The same applies to Mrs Kröger's question, which we also discussed in the AA. We are also exploring the possibility of unilateral application of agreements ahead of ratification. But there is also one disclaimer, namely that this depends on whether we need powers from other countries and whether this can lead to undesirable situations in the Netherlands. We're working on that. As soon as agreements are concluded, I will also inform the Chamber whether it can and, if not, whether there are solutions to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u43	Thank you. You have no further motions for discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u44	I don't think I have any further motions or questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u45	I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of motions and a question. Mr Schonis' motion and Mrs Kröger's motion for a resolution 817 I take as an effort obligation. He's judgment room with that. I think it would be excellent to do that honest comparison. Mr Amhaouch's motion on item No. 818 asks to report annually. I'm willing to do that. It is a bit of a clarification of what we discussed in the AO. I would like to do that at the MIRT in the autumn, so that we have a logical moment each time to pick up the net.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u47	That is why the motion for a resolution is in part No. 818 Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u48	Judgement Room, yes. The motion in part No. 819 by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Schonis and Mrs Kröger say: calculate different routes for the Berlin train side by side, for the short, medium and long term. I understand that the Chamber would like to make a thorough decision on this. So I'm willing to do this. Judgment Room. Then there's the motion in part No. 820 by Mrs Kröger on the phasing-out of scheduled flights between Amsterdam and Brussels. That's what we talked about in the AA. I also indicated that it would be great if we could do that. But as it is now stated, the motion is really ahead of ongoing discussions. I have already reported these talks to the Chamber in the letter on international rail passenger transport. So we're in the middle of talking about that. But the motion says make arrangements with them. She's getting ahead of herself with that. I can't force it either. This is something we can make arrangements about, but we can't force them. We both share this was also widely felt in the Chamber of Commerce that we have to make sure that the train is more attractive in terms of travel time, frequency, cost and comfort at short distances. We have often talked about wanting to make that move, but this motion is too much ahead of us. I would like to ask Mrs Kröger to hold the motion because the discussions are ongoing, as I have already told you. Otherwise, I'll have to discourage the motion because she's ahead of the outcome of those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u49	It's hard for me anyway. The conversations are running. That is precisely the reason for this motion, because we do not want it to be non-binding. We can talk a lot about more train and less flying. We can talk about substitution. We can have all kinds of great ideas, but ultimately it is important that we still fly from Amsterdam to Brussels five times a day, just by one society. So I hope the Secretary of State will take this as an assignment. I hope she really wants to use the conversations to phase out those flights. And again, it is not a ban, but it is precisely those agreements with those parties where the aviation sector wants to see certain things from the train, and the airline sector train. That's understandable, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u50	Mrs Kröger knows we're in the middle of these conversations. And are these conversations voluntary or not? Well, we're not sitting there for fun. We're having these conversations about the transfer from plane to train. I do the same with the Minister, because this motion by Mrs Kröger is, of course, an aviation motion. But I thought, "Don't let me be silly about that." After all, I also conduct those talks with Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, responsible for aviation. We are also having these talks in view of everything Mrs Kröger says. We exchanged the arguments in the AO. But this motion is simply prejudging the outcome of an ongoing process. So she is either redundant, or Mrs Kröger is holding the motion. If, however, she puts her to the vote now, I must therefore discourage the motion. The process is still ongoing and Mrs Kröger is ahead of the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u51	I have one more question that's important to my consideration whether I'm holding the motion or not. Is it the government's commitment in these talks that these flights to Brussels should be phased out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u52	We are talking about much more than just flights to Brussels. A number of destinations have been identified. I sent the Chamber a full report on that. At those destinations we say: when choosing between plane or train the train could actually be a very attractive alternative. So we are talking in broad terms with the aviation sector about how to make the transition from plane to train attractive on certain corridors. What can we do about it? What can the aviation sector do about it? This is therefore broader than just Brussels, but Brussels is also being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u53	The motion in part No. 820 has therefore been dissuaded. We're getting to the motion in part no. 821.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u54	Yes. And I could also imagine that Mrs Kröger's motion in part No. 820 continues, because these are ongoing talks, which contain this, and therefore the motion is not really necessary either. But if she wanted to wait for the outcome of those talks, then she could continue the motion, because we are working in the same direction. I come to the motion by Mr Ziengs, on item No. 822. He feels it coming a bit, but in this form I must indeed discourage the motion. But I get his question. He is actually saying: could we, in parallel with the preparation of the tender, ask the ACM again for advice? I'm willing to do that. Then the preparation of the tender can now begin. The actual tender, so really the decision, is foreseen in 2020. Then we have that time to put this question to the ACM in parallel. I hope that this will satisfy Mr Ziengs' concern. But it would be a shame if we stopped the whole tender for something that we do not know in advance whether it is really a problem. So we can also act at the moment before the decision is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u55	I'm seeing some unrest with the spokesmen. The Secretary of State has the motion in part No. 821 skipped, but we'll get back to that in a moment. For the record, therefore, we are now discussing the motion on item No. 822. I give the floor to Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u56	I'm holding the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u57	At the request of Mr Ziengs, I propose his motion (29984, No. 822). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u58	We're getting to the motion in part no. 821.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u59	Yeah, I skipped that one. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u60	We shall return to that motion in a moment, but I shall first give the floor to Mr Laçin on the motion for a resolution on item No. 822, by Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u61	I am now getting a little confused, because during the AA Mr Ziengs raised this point, and the Secretary of State said that this happened and there is no reason to do so. And now she's saying, yes, I'm willing to do this. So I wonder what changed in those two, three weeks. Now she is prepared to do so, while two weeks ago the answer to this question was: this has happened and there is no reason to do so. Why is there such a reason now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u62	Because it turned out there was a misunderstanding. Mr Ziegs turned out to be talking about something different than what we exchanged in the AO. That is why I am prepared to have this supplementary question examined in parallel for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u63	I actually want to ask the Secretary of State the same question as I asked Mr Ziengs. A letter went back and forth stating that this had been submitted to the ACM. So apparently it wasn't submitted to the ACM?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u64	Mr Ziengs' question, as I interpreted him during the AO, has indeed been checked at the ACM. It turned out that Mr Ziengs' question was just on another point. So I am prepared to have that point examined in parallel. However, this should not delay the launch of the tender, because we would lose a year in that international connection that we would like. Since we don't know if it's a problem, I would think it's a shame to hold up the call for tenders for a year. I'll come to the motion in part No. 821.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u65	For the record, Secretary of State, the motion in part No. So 822 has been detained. But what is your opinion as it is now formulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u66	If the motion is put to the vote, it will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u67	Clear. We're not going to do the whole debate again, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u68	No, I have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u69	Then it must really be a procedural question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u70	Yesterday, at the procedural meeting, we as a committee decided that ProRail's opinion on the integration of the route and the concession should be included in the AO Spoor of 28 March. I just want to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u71	I take note of that, as do all the conclusions of the procedural meeting. But then we know that we can start the tendering process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u72	Then we come to the last motion, the motion in part no. 821.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u73	Yes. The motion in part No. 821 calls on the government to launch a market survey. You always have to take a good look at how you define that exactly. I am prepared, for example, to ask KiM if they can do a study on passenger potential for the night train in the Netherlands. I think that's what this motion means. Then I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u74	In fact, the motion also states that it is about potential. So it's nice that that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u75	Well, at least that misunderstanding is out of the question. A common factual basis is, I think, important for market players to assess whether they are interested. In that respect, I am prepared to do so. "Judge Chamber," so if the Chamber were to vote on it. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u76	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-15.u77	The votes on the motions are Tuesday after the crocus recess. That's March 5th. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes, so until 7:50 p.m.
