ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Long-Term Care Act to provide access to this law for people who, due to mental illness, are permanently in need of permanent supervision or care 24 hours a day nearby, Room 35146. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp as the first speaker on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a little bit of history. There is a group of people with mental illness who need care in the vicinity 24 hours a day. During the general consultation Reform of long-term care, again on 18 December 2013, I asked the first questions about this. On January 16, 2014, I filed a motion with Mona Keijzer during a VAO to open the Long-Term Care Act to people with mental illness. On 27 January 2014, at the invitation of the patient organisation Ypsilon, I went to work at Inforsa, a clinic and expert in the field of very serious psychological problems. It was a touching visit to work and, for me, a confirmation of the need for what we are discussing today. I also remember it well; in the preparation of such a law you also go back a little back in time. A fantastic counselor, Elvira, showed me around. I would also talk to one of the patients asking what it's like to live with such a severe mental disorder in such a clinic, but just before I started the conversation, he decided to opt for the separation room: too many incentives. Elvira knows her patients well and once again brought to my attention how important it is for the Long-Term Care Act to be opened up to people like the young man who unfortunately never got to speak there. Although that motion was adopted, I can also see, looking back, that not everyone in the Chamber and not all parties wanted the speed in it. Not for nothing we only have the treatment today. But gradually that position became increasingly untenable. Patients, family and institutions stood beside us in a joint plea for this opening. That sound also grew stronger when at the end of 2015, the Healthcare Institute also stated that people with a mental disorder who are in permanent need of permanent supervision or 24-hour care nearby should have access to the Wlz. Unfortunately, the previous cabinet continued to refuse to carry out the motion. At the formation, D66 and the CDA.................................................................................................................................................. On 10 October 2016, the new coalition agreement was presented with the passage on the opening of the Wlz, which so many patients and their neighbors have been looking forward to. Now, today, on June 27, 2019, we are discussing the bill, which, under the Long-Term Care Act on January 1, 2021, gives access to people with mental illness. I must say that I am very grateful to the Secretary of State for that. Of course, it is an agreement from the coalition agreement, but this is the first time that I have seen a govern ment who wants to regulate it but also has a feeling about the problem at stake. So I really want to thank him for that. Mr. Chairman. It will be no surprise that I will strongly advise my group to vote in favour of this law, because I believe that a person cannot be cut in somatic, intellectual, mental or mental disabilities. People with mental disorders should have rest, stability and integral care, just like people with disabilities or with disabilities. However, I still have a few questions for the Secretary of State and I have tabled an amendment with colleagues to improve the law on a very important point in my view. I'll start with that right away. It's about the young, the young. The Secretary of State has presented a bill excluding young people, but I think that the round table we have had in the Chamber has pushed most of the parties over the line. Because why shouldn't young people have access? I have heard the Secretary of State say: it is also a bit of a dime on his side. I also understand his reservations, because giving young people a Wlz indication is not a small thing; you don't just do that. At the same time, we see that young people with complex mental problems are not yet well off. Because what I just said about adults, of course, goes for young people. Also a child cannot be cut up in mental, intellectual and somatic limitations or disorders. It must also be seen with young people in its entirety, because mental, intellectual and somatic disorders..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's about care, about what someone needs, not about their age. I recently heard about a boy who had several consecutive psychoses around the age of 14, 15 years. Various risks have arisen in the development of this young person, because the parent also suffered from the disorders and was unable to achieve safe education. Because this young person was already lagging behind in his development and he also had multiple psychoses, his brain is damaged in such a way that the ability to learn, to divide the day independently and to do the ordinary things is no longer present. This young person lives his life with the consequences of the psychoses, consequences that will be permanent, which means that there should always, really every day, be monitoring the behavior and taking the medication, because otherwise there is a great chance of getting psychoses again. And these psychoses again cause behavioral problems, which can no longer be broken without intensive guidance and supervision. For this young person there is no possibility of family or self-employed care. The defects are permanent. This is a poignant story, which I believe also confirms that there is a group of young people with mental illness who need access to the Wlz. We have, of course, been given more casuism throughout the preparation of the law. It is not a question of many young people, but of a number of hundreds of young people, as we heard during the round table. That is why I have tabled an amendment with a number of colleagues for the careful opening of the WlZ to young people with mental illness. That care is very important. You can't say bang-boom: young people have to pass. It is important that there are execution tests, that the NZa, the CIZ and the Zorginstituut also take a close look at them and that there is also another look at the rates. I am therefore very curious to know what the Secretary of State thinks of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Bergkamp, who has given such great care to this subject and has always done so in recent years. So congratulations for her commitment. I am also glad that this law itself will come about. I do have a question about the amendment tabled by Mrs Bergkamp. She mentions the example of someone who has received a psychosis, or perhaps multiple psychoses. It states that this was also the result of the problems in the family. My question to Mrs Bergkamp is therefore: how can we prevent young people from getting the mark that they can no longer be cured at an early age, perhaps at the age of 14? They then belong in the Wlz, but can no longer be helped through the Youth Act or eventually the Wmo. How can we prevent children from getting stamps, giving them labels like that at such a young age?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	That's a very fair question. First of all, we can do this by not putting a stamp on ourselves. I often hear in debates: once you're in the Wlz, you won't get out of it. Secretary of State Blokhuis also said earlier: the Wlz is not a Hotel California, which you will never get out of once you're in it. Well, that's the prejudice there's often with the Wlz. Secondly, it is very important to do a careful journey. That is why I am not in favour of the SP's amendment to bring about a change of pace with adults. This is gonna take a lot of digging. It is important for the CIZ to look, also through conversations with behavioral experts and with all other parties, how we can get a good indication. And, of course, it is very important that I ask that question to the Secretary of State, too, that if there is any development, it should not be the Hotel California.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	I have read that back from the expert meetings; I was not there myself, but it turned out that a system change, or a shift from the Youth Act to the Wlz, in itself does not solve the problems. You have to organize the whole tailor-made care and you have to apply an integrated approach. How can we achieve this through Mrs Bergkamp's amendment? I understand and understand very well that we need to provide rest when it comes to the transition from the Youth Act to the Wlz. But how are we going to achieve this integrated approach, which we do have in the Youth Act, but which we may not have in the Wlz later? How do we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	There are two groups. You shouldn't confuse them. There is a group that fits into the Wlz because it meets the requirements. In addition, if the amendment is adopted, the youth ggz remains the responsibility of the municipality for the rest of the young people. That's what we saw in the hearing. Of course, very good care must be taken to ensure this. There were a lot of concerns about that at the round table. For example, very short decisions are taken. I will tell you later in my story that we need to encourage municipalities to make longer decisions and to ensure appropriate care. I think that's the goal. The Wlz has a different goal vis-à-vis the municipality, but it is of course important to look at appropriate care in both cases, which suits the young people we are talking about. I certainly agree with the Christian Union. If the amendment is adopted, there is still a very large group that falls under the municipality, and it must also be given proper care. That's what we're worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	The SP agrees with D66 that it is very strange that the proposal of the Secretary of State excludes young people and that they cannot end up in long-term care in serious mental illness. I am now concerned about Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. She says that young people should have access, but there are three such harsh conditions that it could only be so that the Secretary of State, or his successor, may decide to do so at any time, because it does not say that it may never happen. Can Mrs Bergkamp, of the three conditions she mentions, namely the size of the group, the feasibility and the budget-neutral introduction, indicate how hard they are to achieve this in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	I understand the SP's question. It is important that the conditions laid down for transfer, in particular, concern how. Unfortunately, we only discussed this for a very long time when it was about adults, but it is important that we have looked very closely at the group. What does this group look like and how can the indication be given? The CIZ itself has said that it takes quite a bit of time. These are exactly the same conditions that we are now imposing on young people. Is CIZ able to give a good indication? It'll take time. But know that that was also mentioned in the talks I had with the Secretary of State on this matter, that it is about how, and not so much about whether or not we are going to do it. I don't think so, but imagine that there are unforeseen things, for example, if it turns out to be very difficult to identify and very difficult to indicate, then we have to talk to each other about how to properly indicate or establish that it is completely impossible. The conditions that we have set for adults, I also say when it comes to the transfer of young people, bearing in mind that it is even more complex for young people, because the brains of young people continue to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	Still, this isn't quite right. In the case of adults, the Secretary of State assumes that it will lead to additional costs. For example, daily spending is the norm in the Wlz. In municipal care, this is often not the case. I believe that it is assumed that it will cost some EUR 70 million more in structural terms. The amendment tabled by Mrs Bergkamp and the rest of the coalition states that 'budgetary neutrality' should apply to young people. That is to say in Dutch: it should not cost more than that it costs the municipalities within the Youth Act. I want to know how hard that condition is. If it turns out that it is going to cost more and it is not going to succeed budget-neutrally, will the amendment lapse? Can't it go on? Or isn't it that loud? I just want to know. Otherwise, it's a dead sparrow. And that doesn't do the kids much good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	I am glad that the SP is getting all excited about the mental disorders in the Wlz, also for young people. I'm glad. I think our struggle is the same. Let me give you my interpretation of the amendment. As with adults, the starting point is that it is budget-neutral. It's not like we suddenly expect young people to really fall short. Let me just say that, too. So I think it is very good that budget neutrality is the starting point. But imagine it's gonna cost more money. Then we should have the debate on that with each other. That's no reason for me to be against the transfer. But we do have to give substance to the conditions and content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	I'm just reading from the Secretary of State's own papers. He says about the group of adults who have access to long-term care: "The risks are up to 68 million euros in 2026." I assume it's structural after that. That means it's gonna be more expensive for this group. I don't mind, because that's good; those people need more and better care. But give it to the young. If the condition in the amendment is that it should be budget-neutral and that it should not cost more, then that condition will not be met. I just want to know if this means making those kids happy with a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	No, it's not. I think it should be done very carefully. I sometimes wish that the reality of the SP was my reality, because then I could say: smack, boom, on a certain date we are going to transfer all young people. The amendment builds a number of careful steps in order to see what it costs. The starting point is that the budget is neutral. Does that have to be a reason not to transfer? No. But we must have it in sight. When it comes to indicting, how are we going to do that? Can CIZ do that? What is needed in terms of capacity and expertise? Those are all things we need to figure out. We must therefore do this very carefully and gradually, just as we have done with the adults and the steps that the Secretary of State has built in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	Does the proposer also have an insight into how long it has gone over, in terms of time, to walk down those steps to the ggz towards well-being?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	If you see what the steps are for adults now, that is actually the path we want for young people as well. We can also ask the Secretary of State: can it all be done faster? In my amendment, I indicated the steps to be taken. I think it is a very sensible question for Mrs Agema to ask: how long does the Secretary of State intend to do about it? I think that is a very useful question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. In the interrupting debate with the Christian Union, I have already indicated some things, but let me be clear. The amendment does not, of course, exempt municipalities from any obligation to provide proper care to young people with mental illness who will not be able to access the Wlz. It remains of continued importance and it is also important for my party that the decisions may have a longer duration. The expertise of the municipality in relation to these groups should also be increased. Parents are regularly sent from the locker to the wall to take care of their children properly. Fortunately, the Secretary of State also acknowledges that this must be done. Recognition is the necessary first step, but it is, of course, ultimately about tackling and improving; that is an essential condition. So I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's gonna do this. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how he intends to proceed with these longer decisions, because that is not a new wish of the Chamber. We have tabled a motion on this with colleagues before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	Just a little more careful, though. Of course, for all other children and young people not covered by the Wlz, the municipalities remain responsible for the Youth Act and the younger ones. But the moment there is a Wlz indication, the municipality pulls its hands off it. So then that integral approach is no longer there. Then it's just the Wlz that's responsible for the younger one. We can't start combining. You can't say, guys, we're gonna combine the Youth Act with the Wlz. So is Mrs Bergkamp aware that this integrated approach will fall out if we get him out of the Youth Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	It's a different approach. I agree with Mr Voordewind that once you are in the Wlz, you will no longer be under the responsibility of the municipality and the health offices. But of course it is not that you get very poor help in the Wlz; of course that is not the case either. It's also in that Wlz about integral care, care that is needed, looking at the younger. If Mr Voordewind is concerned about this, then I think it would be very good if the Secretary of State should respond in detail, but as far as I am concerned, of course, the Wlz should also provide good and appropriate care. This will sometimes also relate to a piece of well-being; this will sometimes also relate to a piece of medical medicine. The parents will also be involved. It is only of a different order than the municipality, because from the municipality it is focused on the short term, participate, participate, and in the Wlz there is more peace and stability. This also sometimes includes a different appropriate expertise when it comes to the caregivers and the supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	Let me get this straight. The Wlz is of course aimed at the child itself. If this amendment continues, then the family will no longer be looked at in full. The example mentioned by Mrs Bergkamp was a problem arising from the family. Well, I'll probably come up with a motion in the second term, just waiting to see what the Secretary of State's reaction is. I can also see that there is a majority in favour of the amendment. Then I would like to see whether we can maintain that integrity at the Wlz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	The care from the Wlz is aimed at the child; that's right. But if the parents have problems, of course you still have that municipality. It is not so that the municipality no longer looks at the parents and the guidance in them. I think we have a lot of debates here in the Chamber about the fact that sometimes, unfortunately, care comes from several points of contact, because sometimes it is very complex. When it comes to the child's care, it's all the WlZ. But if parents need support, of course we still have the city. I think it is quite right to ask how the Secretary of State sees it in practice. That's how I see it: good care, appropriate care for the younger, with the level and expertise that goes with it, but if parents need care from the municipality, there is also a role to play. Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has said that there is development within the Wlz; we have just had an interrupting debate on the Hotel California story. Of course, I do not want to argue that people should go to the Wlz for the same three years, but I would like to receive a confirmation from the Minister that this new group will also apply that if they go through enough progress and development, it will be possible to drain from the Wlz on the basis of Article 3.2.4 (b), just as for other people. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State or, if so, how he is going to make an effort to stimulate this development. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the three-year criterion. In the long run, it is the Secretary of State's wish to abolish the three-year criterion. That also makes sense, because there will be a new access. It would be wrong to get more roads at some point. That would be inconvenient. The moment of abolition depends on the investigation of the risk settlement, but this abolition is determined by royal decree. This does not happen via a regular AMvB and a front suspension procedure. We think it would be a good idea for the Chamber to be informed about this. I think there is an amendment tabled by Mr Slootweg. In any case, we have a desire to be informed. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the institutions where the care will be delivered later. It is good to see that, on the basis of Article 3 of the Amending Law, the Wlz executive must make efforts so that people can just stay in the institution where they already reside. I would like to ask the following about this commitment. The NZa will ensure that the Wlz-executor complies with this obligation. Will the Secretary of State ask the NZa to monitor this proactively, especially in the first few years? These institutions, such as sheltered housing, will soon also have to provide Wlz care. Sometimes that's a little different from what they're doing now. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether the institutions are ready for this. If not, what preparations will be made in the coming period? Recently, I received an e-mail about parental initiatives, which, of course, include young people with such problems. How do we deal with that? Will the decisions be extended there too? Since care will soon be delivered from the Wlz, I am also curious to see which quality framework applies. Is there already a quality framework for long-term care/ggz, for example? If that's not there yet, will the Secretary of State develop it in conjunction with the field? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the information. For anyone who will have access to the Wlz, it is very important, certainly looking at the nature of the clients, that there is not a lot of unrest. But of course there is also a price tag on the transition to the Wlz. After all, for the group that now lives protected on the basis of the Wmo and now receives care in kind, it is likely that their own contribution will be due on the basis of the Wlz. I therefore think it is very important to work together with healthcare agencies, CIZ and client organisations to ensure clear communication and to pay explicit attention to their own contribution here. I also think it is right that we should involve the municipalities, because there too there will be clients who will be covered by the WlZ. The municipality has to prepare people for this, so I would like to get a commitment that the municipalities will also be involved. Does the Secretary of State also wish to pay explicit attention to the client supporter in this plan? Yesterday we discussed this in a general discussion on the Wmo. There are now some pilots in Amsterdam and in Rotterdam or The Hague. Client support is incredibly hard work, especially for this group. I think it's gonna take an extra push or a push. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. When the young man from the beginning of my contribution had gone to the separation at his own request, Elvira said to me: "We never give up." He was her first patient once. Twenty years later, with all kinds of breaks, he was back with her. Between the first meeting and the last meeting, he had deteriorated. For this gentleman it was very important to have that stability and peace. Unfortunately, he has a permanent concern. The Wlz is therefore the right access for him as an example to illustrate. I am very pleased that we can contribute to this debate today and hopefully to the adoption of the law. I also hope that we will be able to regulate young people's access today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an important bill, a bill that recognises that there may also be a need for long-term care in mental health care, in such a way that access to the Wlz is possible. At present, the indication of access to the Wlz does not take account of the psychological problem. With this bill, that will change and we will look at the human being as a whole. That's good news. Mr. Chairman. Currently, clients with a mental illness covered by the Wmo or Health Insurance Act experience a number of problems. They are periodically assessed, which is perceived as a burden. In addition, they have to demonstrate over and over again that it is impossible to function independently, while the Wmo is not really suitable for this group of people. Furthermore, it is very difficult to achieve a good range of care for people with mental illness who also have other limitations. Finally, the permanent supervision or 24 per day care in close proximity in many institutions for protected living is not sufficiently regulated for this group. These are problems that require a solution and an approach. That is why the Christian Union is pleased that we are discussing this bill today. In recent times, the Secretary of State has done a lot of preparatory work and has mapped out the size of the group and what is needed for a smooth transition to the Wlz. The CIZ has been prepared to provide the indication. At the same time, much remains to be done. Some effects will only become apparent after the introduction of the law. That is why I have a number of concerns and a number of questions that I would like to put to the Secretary of State. There's about four of them. Mr. Chairman. First of all, it concerns the size of the group of clients with mental disorders that would be eligible for the Wlz. The Secretary of State now assumes 8,500 clients from the Wmo and 750 clients from the Health Insurance Act, but this assumes the lower limit of the bandwidth. Other numbers have also been mentioned. It could also be 16,000 clients. Can the Secretary of State explain again why he is assuming 9.250? What are the consequences if the number of clients is significantly higher than the numbers mentioned by the Secretary of State today? This is not just about capacity: are we well prepared for higher numbers when it comes to CIZ capacity? It is, of course, also about the financial aspect. What happens when there are many more clients and so much more money needs to be allocated to these patients? Do we still have the Secretary of State's guarantee that this will be paid out of the budget of the VWS Ministry? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the definition of the legislative proposal. The Secretary of State has chosen to continue to include young people with serious ggz problems in youth care. We also read this in the explanatory memorandum and in the written round. He has several arguments for this, in my opinion, which are valid. A few years ago, we discussed the youth ggz in detail, and we came to the conclusion here in the Chamber that it was wise for most people to agree to integrate the youth ggz into the Youth Act, precisely for the integral diagnostics and the integral care that was best possible there. The choice of the Secretary of State is in line with the choice made at the time. At the same time, we know that there are children and young people who could potentially fall under Wlz because of other indications. We all know the poignant stories of young people who are not being helped very well in the youth ggz. Especially young people who need long-term care, give you the rest and a better treatment option. However, I have already said it in the interrupting debate with Mrs Bergkamp from the expert group that it is clear that only a transition to the Wlz, a transition to another legal system, will not solve the problem. Appropriate care will still have to be sought in the Wlz. For me, it is hard for the Youth Act, unlike the Wlz, to involve the child's total living situation in the care and support that the child receives. Mrs Bergkamp said just now that we will continue to look at the parents, that is true, but that can no longer be done on the basis of the Youth Act, because that is where the child is starting point. I'm still very concerned about that. In addition, it is very difficult for children with a mental disorder to determine whether they will continue to meet the eligibility criteria of the Wlz. On this point, we can say that there should be regular indications. That is also the case in the Youth Act. The question is whether the stool will eventually have an effect. If you find that, you'll come back to the CIZ with an indication. When we look at young people, the example of a 14-year-old boy was just mentioned, we are talking about young people whose personality is still in full development. The living conditions, the family, have a very big impact on that. I myself know a boy who was indeed in the Wlz and was said to always need 24 hours of supervision and guidance. As a family, we have spent intensive care and guidance on this. What happened now? He is from the Wlz and now lives independently with distance guidance. There are indeed examples of people who might get into the Wlz too early and then go out again. I see Mrs Bergkamp standing at the microphone and I know that she is going to say that that is impossible to rule out and that people should always be able to get out of the Wlz. But the I think that's a lot for young people from 13 to 14 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	We've known each other for a while, but I didn't want to say that. I had another interruption. We just had an interrupting debate about family support. I said that from the Wlz there is certainly a form of family support, but different from the Youth Act; I agree with that. Young people need a structured, safe environment, which is better offered from the Wlz as far as we are concerned. That's so valuable to the Wlz. I do not quite understand Mr Voordewind's speech, because there are also young people with intellectual disabilities or somatic disabilities in the WlZ. Would they have completely isolated care? I hope not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	What we are talking about today when dealing with this law is the young people who have serious mental problems and who do not have access to the Wlz. Previously, we said that these young people should be covered by the Youth Act. We have had very long debates on this in the run-up to the Youth Act and yet decided to keep it under the Youth Act, precisely because of that integrated approach. Mrs Bergkamp's amendment seeks to change that. I admit, it's a small part of the whole Youth Act group. When you hear the assessment, it's 300 kids. My point here is that I am afraid that this integrated approach will no longer be possible for these young people on the basis of the Youth Act. So we're gonna have to look at the parents and apply a whole different system. Then it gets complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	I remember the debate on youth-ggz. I know that the Christian Union was a great supporter of transferring to the congregation, and we were not. I have tabled an amendment on it, and it did not make it. Today we have a different discussion. I understand history and what Mr Voordewind indicates, but also in the Wlz there are young people and children with intellectual, somatic or sensory limitations. Wouldn't they get family support at all? Of course I do, just another form. If Mr Voordewind is concerned about the transfer of young people with mental illness, he should also now be concerned about the other young people in the Wlz. I think it can be done in the Wlz, in combination with a structured and safe environment, with family support in a form other than the Youth Act. There is certainly triage when it comes to family, parents and children. So if Mr Voordwind is concerned, he should actually have it now for the other young people in the Wlz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	We need to see how defined it is, but this is a new category: that of children with a psychiatric disorder. And the climate of life plays an important role in the rest of that development, especially since they are still under development. This is a change of policy. We have also heard the reactions of the Secretary of State. And I'm worried about the integrity. Maybe that's not necessary, but I have a motion for that in the second term. Perhaps Mrs Bergkamp is willing to sign it if she wants to remove those concerns. Let us see if this integrity is indeed guaranteed, including with the Wlz, when it comes to psychiatric young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	Of course, I am going to look at the motion, but it is not just about the integrality of care. The reason we are having this debate on adults and young people is because we need to look at young people in their entirety. Young people cannot be cut into pieces somatic, intellectual and psychological. I hope that is the argument to draw Mr Voordewind over the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	We have incorporated the integrated approach into the Youth Act. That was the most important consideration to allow all the financial flows and the organisations involved that we had to move towards municipalities and district teams. We wanted integrated diagnostics, indication and treatment to take place there. Anyway, let's see how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	Exactly. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	I thought it was a nicely penetrating story by Mr Voordewind, but I do have one more question. It seems to me that Mr Voordewind makes a clear separation between 18-plussers and 18-minners. On the other hand, I cannot imagine that Mr Voordewind would think it logical to write off a 18-year-old and two-month-old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	No, of course it stays the same. We have a transitional period for people who move from the Youth Act to the Wlz. In foster care and the family homes, we are now trying to raise this limit to the age of 21. And the municipalities already have a duty to prepare the Wmo or the Wlz in time. There too you need a smooth transition at the moment. And I think that's possible. Indeed, we also hear from local authorities that they have been much more effective since they became responsible for the Youth Act four years ago. So it's getting better. The municipalities also say they're getting steamed. Now that this is happening and the municipalities say that they are going to take care of it, including the transition, we see that there is going to be a cut. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	I hear Mr Voordewind replying to what is happening for 18-minners. I am just so curious why for 18-plussers the effect of the law in its present form is that it is written off, to speak with Mr Voordewind. That can't be the point, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	Do you mean, if we leave it as it is? I'm just looking for your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	Yes. The amendment that Mrs Bergkamp has tabled on our behalf is simply much more based on the disorder and on what needs to be cared for. It makes much less distinction between 18-plus and 18-min. The objection that Mr Voordewind raises every time is: you write off young people under the age of 18. If that is the consequence, the downside is that he actually indicates that this is happening to someone who is 18 years and two months old. I cannot imagine that is what Mr Voordewind is trying to do. I don't know the Christian Union like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	I think there is still a big difference between children aged 12 and children aged 15 or 16. And I don't think it's gonna happen anytime soon under 12 years. Between this first age group, which is still in full development, think also of the situation of depression in the puberty phase and the category 18-plussers, I think there is a big difference. Even so, of course, we do not have to write off children, but the situation and growth in development is a lot further. We don't call them age-old for nothing when they're 18-plus. That doesn't mean that we let them go; then, of course, if necessary, we have the flowing movement to the Wmo. And if it's much more complicated, we need to scale up to the Wlz. Then we won't let go of children. I think there is a big difference between 18-plus and young people aged 12 or 13, which we are talking about now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	We have to finish this, because I do not believe that we are really getting closer together, also because suddenly the distinction is made with 12-year-olds. I myself have a big problem with what you say to parents or to a 17-year-old or ten-month-old child for which this would not apply without the amendment that is now before you, and to someone who is 18 years and two months-old. I don't really hear an answer to that. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	I have listened carefully to Mr Voordewind, but I am still looking for what he means by the word 'long-term' in relation to 'continuing'. There are long-term problems under the Long-Term Care Act. Hence the rest for the younger and the family involved. So I think it would be very good to offer access under the age of 18. Mr Voordewind just said that it could lead to a kind of permanent situation, while he cited an example from his own environment where someone from the Wlz could make a fresh start. Where is the fear of giving children under the age of 18 access to the Wlz?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	The law is not for nothing as it is. The amendment does not even prescribe an age. Earlier there was talk of doing this from 15 years old. So it's about kids. If the amendment is adopted, my expectation is that, in order to make it even worse, we would have to provide long-term care for problems while those children are still fully developing. So I'm afraid of labels. I am afraid of not approaching and looking at the whole family situation, of child and family before the development has taken place for up to 18 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	In my view, the amendment deliberately does not mention the age of 8, 12 or 15 years. This is really about customisation, where you could provide long-term care in a specific situation of a specific child and the family. In my opinion, this should not be an age under 18, but a tailor-made situation. I wonder whether, for example, an evaluation at the age of 18 could move Mr Voordewind towards this amendment. With that, the Wlz would not have to be some kind of final destination. This is an evaluation at the age of 18 of the application of the Wlz to see if another solution is possible at that time. I then respond to the idea, which I share, that 14-, 15- or 16-year-olds naturally develop until they are 18. By the way, it doesn't stop. It'll go on for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	An evaluation when they're 18?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yeah, for example. Then you know for sure that it is not some kind of permanent destination for young people, or that they never come out of the Wlz again. I heard some fear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	When they're 18, they fall out of the Youth Act. Then it automatically becomes the Wmo or the Wlz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	Finally, you may clarify exactly what you mean, Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	I understand that Mr Voordewind is particularly concerned about the fact that people are no longer coming out of the Wlz and that young people are getting into it too early. I'm asking if it's possible to evaluate that. It doesn't have to be some kind of terminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	If the amendment is adopted, there will undoubtedly be a number of studies on how the application should be precise. I'm gonna wait and see anyway. The amendment is adopted because I believe there is a majority in favour of it. We are going to consider, with a motion and in the group, whether we can still support that amendment, because of the arguments I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr Hijink, another point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	I have a problem with Mr Voordewind saying that long-term care is a kind of prison and that you will never get out of it when you are in it. The example he calls himself is about children of 8 years old. Of course, it is not the case that you end up in the Wlz when there are behavioral problems, or educational issues. It concerns a small group of hundreds of people with severe mental disorders. Those are the numbers and that's the group we're talking about. I have a problem with Mr Voordewind saying very easily that you have to look at the family first. No, these kids are seriously mentally ill. You must want to give them the best care. Then the trade-off between Wlz or no Wlz doesn't apply, does it? Then you just have to choose the best care, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	I've been working on the youth care portfolio for ten years now. During that period, I made a lot of work visits. I'm afraid that municipalities will then say, "Okay, we'll forward it to the Wlz. He's going to the ClZ. He is no longer our responsibility, so we don't have to keep him in the picture anymore." I am afraid of that, because my experience is that serious psychiatric conditions, including in young children, often also arise from the family situation. I am thinking, for example, of broken families, alcohol consumption and mental disorders in the parents themselves. I refer to the example that has just been mentioned. If we give someone to the Wlz so quickly, then I wonder if we can still maintain the integrated approach through the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	But it's been changed a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but it's an opportunity argument. Municipalities are already complaining about this. General practitioners refer to the youth ggz and the municipalities say that they have absolutely no idea. The children are just entitled to the best possible care. If that's long-term care, that's long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	And then caregivers can make a very good assessment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr President, I don't know why you're being so grumpy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	... but this is the first question I put to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	The point is that I also want to go a little further in this debate. The arguments are now repeated. Then it is important to return to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	Yeah, sure. But this does affect the legal certainty of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	And I'm not at all cranky. Why are these comments always made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	Well, I just find it annoying that, when I ask a question, I am cut off immediately, when I really haven't taken a lot of time in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	No, but if a few times the same question is asked in different ways, I'll say something about that. But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	The point is that the Christian Union undermines the legal certainty of young people who have the same right to long-term care as those who need it, as adults who need it. That is my point of principle. I think that Mr Voordewind is getting over that too easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	And I said that you made that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr Hijink talks about legal certainty, but it is not for nothing that we have established an age criterion for adulthood here. It is 18 years old and that has everything to do with the development of children. So again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	That is also what you said. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. I have already asked questions about Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. Another concern I have with the bill is the notion of "continuity." The indication is an important part of the law. I understand that the Wlz criteria and the concept of permanence still need to be operationalised. Is it true that it is not so easy to make a clear definition of the concept of permanence, because it is always necessary to deepen and clarify the concept of the substance of the case? Does the CIZ, which I think is the first to deal with this serious psychological problem, have sufficient knowledge and expertise in this area? If not, how are we gonna put this in the CIZ? The fourth point I want to make is about the capacity of the CIZ. By 2020, there should be sufficient capacity for the indication. We are assuming 9.250 people who could possibly be included, but there will be a lot more children and parents at the CIZ. Does that mean that 95 FTE at the ClZ is enough for us? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that there will be sufficient staff to be able to make all these indications next year, and that we will not be on waiting lists? My final point. Does the Secretary of State have any idea of another bottleneck, namely the short time that might be between the indication of the municipality and that of the CIZ? In the written reply, the State Secretary writes that there is no combined indication because the Wmo and the Wlz have different starting points. But can the CIZ at least make use of the municipality's indicative decisions? In that case, not all basic questions need to be asked again. It would not be good for these children to constantly retell their story, even if it is very close to each other. They then first told their story under the Youth Act, and then they have to tell the whole story again in the context of the Wlz. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mr President. The SP is very pleased that people with mental illness will have access to the Long-Term Care Act. In 2014, many, including the SP, warned that it is risky to shred the long-term ggz over multiple health care laws. It is a good thing that this point is being repented. It is a very important law that we are discussing today, because there is finally going to be an end to those re-evaluations that still often affect people with serious mental problems. That gives this group a rest and a lot of security. Also, people who we know need intensive care for many more years will no longer be pushed into doing things that they are not really capable of in the context of self-consultation by municipalities. The opening up of the Long-Term Care Act is a very good decision for these people. Mr. Chairman. I do have some questions about this law. For example, there are doubts about admission to the law. The government applies a criterion of persistence when it comes to mental disorders. My question is: what exactly is that supposed to mean? Is this about people who will not be able to improve in the foreseeable future? Or are we talking about people who expect the mental disorder to stay for life? And who is the burden of proof? Does the patient need to prove that he needs this intensive care for a lifetime? That seems very complicated to me. I would like a response from the Secretary of State on how this should work in practice. Then, Chairman, the youth. It's already gone through a lot. There is rightly a lot of criticism of this law, because young people with mental disorders who need permanent intensive care are excluded from the Long-Term Care Act. That is very strange in the eyes of the SP, because the call for this not to be done is widely supported, both by the parents of the young people involved and by the young people themselves and by the professionals in the care. The SP Group finds it incomprehensible that the Secretary of State made this choice. Why does he violate the principle of equality? Is it not very strange that young people with long-term physical disabilities can go to long-term care, but not young people with mental illness? Why is there this artificial distinction? I'd like to know from the Secretary of State exactly what's fair about that. Why does the Secretary of State not give these young people and their parents the assurance that care is well arranged if it can be established that they need long-term care? Does the Secretary of State consider it desirable that there should be legal inequality between young people and adults with mental illness if they are subject to different laws, while their need for care is completely comparable? A severe mental disorder, such as autism or schizophrenia, will not disappear or heal. That is what the Secretary of State himself writes in his reply. So you'd say you need long-term care for that. The size of the group of young people involved cannot be the object either. Experts have told us to think in hundreds, not in thousands. What does the Secretary of State think of the criticism that excluding young people and setting this age limit does not actually resolve the demarcation between systems? In fact, an extra limit is simply maintained. The SP has tabled an amendment to remove this inequality from the law. I see Mrs Bergkamp standing; she is undoubtedly going to ask a question about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	How can you be so sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	A special antenna.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	It does make sense, doesn't it? I have just looked at Mr Hijink's amendment. I do not want to advertise the amendment tabled by myself and my fellow Members, but I think Mr Hijink's amendment is rather careless. The SP says: at the same time as a big scare for adults, there must be a big scare for young people. But Mr Hijink knows that this must be done very carefully. There must be execution tests. The CIS needs to see how that group can be indicated. The NVvP, psychologists and orthopedagogics are also in favour of opening up, but in a non-taxable way. Municipalities still have to look at it. It really takes a little effort to make sure that this is done carefully. Does Mr Hijink agree with me? Doesn't he agree that his amendment might be a little short-sighted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	In other words, Mrs Bergkamp's amendment is much more beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mrs Bergkamp thinks Mrs Bergkamp's amendment is much better. I can imagine. But I don't think she's right. In fact, she states that, because it has taken so long for adults, she herself has said that we must let it last for a very long time for young people. That's a bit of a weird argument. Look, I am talking about the fundamental question: if you think it applies to adults with severe mental disorders, then should it apply to young people who are in the same situation? That is a point of principle. It is about legal certainty, equality of law, legal protection, and then it comes about. We still have time. That law doesn't go in yet. We still have a year and a half left. In a year and a half you can do a lot. With the adults, it's taken years. I don't think that's a recommendation to follow that route automatically. In my view, the law should lay down what we want in principle and then implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	That's not right. When I said that it took a very long time, it had to do with the political process in particular. Ever since this Secretary of State said "I'm gonna pick it up," he's made a plan that's very careful. I had to look at it a few times: is that really that long? My comment just in my speech that it has taken so long, has to do with the political process, it just starts. Again, the question to Mr Hijink. Does he not think that, for example, the CIZ should be able... It's about a very vulnerable group. Moreover, the invitation to Mr Hijink: if, after this debate, he thinks of 'hm, hm, hm', he can always stand under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	That's super-sympathetic. I'll keep it in mind. The point is that I do not find the way in which it is regulated in this amendment to be appropriate, also because it is conditional. There are three conditions in Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. I think you should write down a point of principle in a law. A law must be written or you think that if it is to be arranged for adults, it must be arranged for young people. What Mrs Bergkamp is doing is actually incorporating into the law: it would be nice if it were to be regulated if these three conditions were met. We talked about: what if it costs more money, what if there are problems in the feasibility? Then it can simply mean that it either does not go on at all or only goes on with jut-jut. I don't think that's possible in a law. Then do it by motion or something, but you shouldn't put it in the law like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	No, of course what Mr Hijink says is not correct. The amendment indicates that we are going to do it, but we are going to do it carefully. In the debate on the interruption, Mr Hijink said about finance: that is a tough demand. We say it is a starting point and it must be mapped out. So let us take each other's amendments seriously. To be honest, I found Mrs Agema's suggestion to be at the heart of the matter. Of course, it is important for the Secretary of State to state how long it takes. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het moet niet een soort openeinderegeling zijn.]] I think it is important that the Secretary of State should also be able to indicate how long such a journey takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	Then let's agree on that point. I'd love to hear from the Secretary of State... When he says, "I want this, too. I want to settle this and if there are implementation problems, then I am going to solve them; then that is no reason not to do it' and if he also says 'If it costs more than it costs now under the Youth Act, then I am prepared to add money; that cannot be a reason not to do it', if he can give that kind of answer right away, then I can get excited about that amendment. Then I want him to have some kind of time frame that, when the law comes into force in 2021, we will, in the very short term, also include young people and that this will not happen until 2028 when everything has been examined a thousand times. We just need that certainty. I do not want to go out this afternoon with a dead sparrow for all those people who want the young people to be covered by this law. If the Secretary of State is going to promise that, then I'm a lucky man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr. Chairman. My next point concerns young people with learning difficulties. My group has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to this group and to the long-term care denied to young adults with intellectual disabilities, whether or not combined with mental illness. Is it true, I ask the Secretary of State, that thanks to this bill these young adults can now be included in the Wlz and not necessarily sent to the Health Insurance Act or Wmo? The problem is often that these young adults cannot be shown to have learning difficulties before their eighteenth year of life, or that this limitation has not been established until later because no research has been carried out or because parents, doctors and CIZ have not been able to find out whether there is a real intellectual limitation. In these situations young adults fall between shore and ship. Of course, that's a shame. Their problems are serious and long-lasting, and so they have to manage with a combination of care through the health insurance company and the municipality. We would like to see that resolved. The Secretary of State states in his written replies that these young adults should be given the care they need and that discussions between doctors, the CIZ and practitioners about the legal regime should be avoided as much as possible. Of course we agree with that. We share this desirability, but the fact is that this debate is still too frequent. The reaction of the Secretary of State is therefore not a solution for young people who are not in the right place, in the right law, in the right care. There are still trials going on. The question to the Secretary of State is whether the rules applied by the CIZ are not too strict for this target group. Wouldn't it be good if this group were treated with a little more coulance? Is it really as bad when a small group of people end up in long-term care so that they don't have to fight municipalities and insurers for the rest of their lives to get the right care? I'd like an extensive response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then there's your own contribution. There are concerns about the financial consequences for people who have to make the transition from the Health Insurance Act or the Wmo to long-term care. These people suddenly face a much higher own contribution. Now it is logical that people living in a healthcare institution should pay a contribution because they incur costs in that institution that they would otherwise make at home. But I also read messages of a much higher own contribution. Is the transitional arrangements to move from the low to the high own contribution within four months really not too short? This is also a major problem in the transition from the Wmo to the Long-Term Care Act. Should the transition period with a low own contribution not be reduced to six months so that people have more time to adapt to the new situation? Mr. Chairman. Are waiting lists expected as the pressure on institution care may increase? Is there any insight into that? What is the Secretary of State doing to increase the capacity in long-term care as a new group arrives? And what if waiting lists are created unexpectedly or if it turns out that the sector is not able to find an adequate solution for large groups of people? We recently saw this broadcast of Newsuur about vulnerable young people who cannot get the care they need. Does the Secretary of State have a plan of action for this group? One more question, Mr. Chairman, and then I'm through. It's about the inspection. In response to this proposal, the Health and Youth Inspectorate has indicated that this will require more from its organisation. Does the Secretary of State intend to increase the capacity of the inspection so that the quality of care can be monitored everywhere? I think that's very important. If a large group of clients, patients from municipal care move to long-term care and fall into the sight of the inspection, then that inspection should be able to properly monitor and ensure the quality of care for these people. If there is a problem with that, I hope that the Secretary of State is prepared to give the inspection more money, more resources so that she can do the same. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, my colleague Attje Kuik from the PvdA is not in this debate today. My input is partly on her behalf. Mr. Chairman. Already in Greek antiquity was philosophized about the relationship between body and mind. Plato, for example, found separating body and mind rather arbitrary. He said about this: the biggest mistake that doctors make in our time is that they begin to separate the soul from the body. This so-called dualism has had a lot of influence. One consequence has perhaps been that visible physical constraints have received a lot of attention for a long time, but that less visible, mental problems that did not receive attention. But a serious mental disorder is just as obstructive for people as it is for a physical disability. The current system creates a lot of uncertainty for already vulnerable people. She and their relatives are worried if they care. It is therefore a good thing that this legislative amendment will make it possible to guarantee long-term care for people with long-term mental problems. By treating people with mental disabilities no different from those with physical disabilities, the cabinet aims to do justice to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I use the term "intention" for a reason, because I'm not quite satisfied yet. Then it is about young people, which much has already been said about today. Despite much criticism from parents, professional associations and patient organisations, the cabinet continues to distinguish between adults with severe mental illness and minors with severe mental illness. I think that's a hard-to-understand decision. This is because it does not support the principle of equal treatment in the Cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Secretary of State. Should the question of care fit into the framework of the law or should the legal framework adapt to the patient's concern? My group is strongly in favour of the latter. The exclusion of minors from the Wlz ensures that one young person with ggz problems and an intellectual disability can just get access, but the other one can't. That is not because their limitation is so different, but because the indication author has to choose between the label psychiatry or the label mentally handicapped. Again, I find this rather arbitrary. Indeed, there are often multiple problems. Especially the most vulnerable in society need peace and predictability. The constant re-indication of minors with complex mental disabilities does not contribute to this. In fact, in practice, the Youth Act regularly fails to do so. This causes stress for young people, but also for their parents. The Youth Act has a number of weaknesses with regard to this group: the lack of the unconditional right to care, the strong dependence on local politics and budgets, but also the fact that the specialist knowledge a municipality needs is not always there. In the written answer to the parliamentary questions, the Cabinet states that "it is often very difficult for minors to determine to what extent the child will continue to comply with the Wlz's access criteria." I can imagine this hesitation, but I call on the cabinet to choose customization. My group relies on the opinion of professionals and parents who clearly state that this very small group of minors should also be able to access the Wlz. These are young people with complex psychological and often multiple problems. Access to the Wlz should not be an end in itself. It is precisely a means of ensuring that this group is given the right care. I therefore ask the Secretary of State, on the basis of the principle of law, to deny young people that right. It is clear that my group, together with Mr Bergkamp and others, is tabling an amendment to give young people access to this law. Mr. Chairman. If you didn't read the bill with a magnifying glass, you'd almost read it over and you might forget that the government generally has a hand in getting tasks and responsibilities transferred together with cuts. We saw this earlier in youth care, with EUR 450 million deducted from decentralisation. We also saw it at the Wmo. I had to think of these examples when studying this bill. The Secretary of State wants to have the transfer of people from the Health Insurance Act and the Wmo implemented for the most part budget-neutrally. He is counting on the WlZ's expenditure to rise to some 650 million euros. The Dutch Healthcare Authority estimates the financial consequences differently. The NZa expects an increase of between 638 million and 825 million. The Secretary of State is therefore based on estimates 'at the lower limit of the band', I quote again from the explanatory statement. Can the Secretary of State explain why he estimates the extra Wlz budget so low? The NSA concludes that there is uncertainty in the adequacy of the budgetary framework. Can the Secretary of State make it clear why he doesn't see that uncertainty? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State wants to cover the budgetary risk of the additional costs of the Wlz within the Expenditure Ceiling care. I trust this Secretary of State that these additional costs will actually be paid, but it does not sound like a structural solution. Moreover, the additional costs may increase further in the future, especially if the said amendment, on the access of a specific group of young people, is adopted. My question is therefore: can the Secretary of State guarantee that the transfer of these patients to the Wlz will not ultimately be accompanied by a significant reduction? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are very pleased that, after years of progress, my colleague Mr Bergkamp has already said that we are finally going to assess people equally and that we are not looking at the nature of their limitation, whether it is physical or psychological, but at their actual concern. Or in other words, that soul and body are not legally separated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr Renkema. Maybe just for the people who are following this debate: Wlz is the Long-Term Care Act and CIZ is Centre indication care. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that I will pronounce the abbreviations completely, especially at the beginning. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Democratic Appeal, the CDA, has long waited for the finalisation of this bill in plenary. People with severe and long-term psychiatric disability also belong to the Long-term Care Act, the Wlz. They deserve the protection and rest that this law can offer, given the severity and long duration of their limitation and because they need 24-hour care in the vicinity. My CDA predecessor on this file, Mona Keijzer, arranged it with colleague Bergkamp in January 2014 by motion. The final vote will be taken in plenary in the House of Representatives. I think it is very important that this law does not delay further and that the deadlines are met. For all people who are going to be covered by the law, as well as providers and municipalities, it is important that deadlines are met at a steady pace. This calls on the cabinet, municipalities and the Centre to make every effort to bring the law into force as from 1 January 2021. My question to the Secretary of State is: can the Centre give indications of care as of 1 January 2020? And how far is the CIZ preparing to re-indicate this group to the Long-Term Care Act? The CIZ already needs 95 FTE of extra bets in 2019; is that going to work? Mr. Chairman. A discussion point in this legal treatment is whether children and young people under 18 years of age with severe and prolonged psychiatric disability should have access to the Long-Term Care Act. The Government itself raises this point for discussion in the explanatory memorandum of this law. She concludes that young people under 18 years of age with a serious psychiatric problem can remain under the care of the municipality and the Youth Act. However, children under the age of 18 with severe physical and/or intellectual disabilities may be covered by the Long-term Care Act. Can the Secretary of State state state why he sees no problem with the principle of equality in this regard? Let the CDA be clear. The Youth Act offers the vast majority of children and young people and their families a real opportunity to be temporarily helped and/or supported and subsequently to develop. This is precisely the case with the Youth Act, where the whole family situation is taken into account and care and support can be provided at a low threshold and close to home. However, the CDA considers this to be a problem for young people with severe and long-term psychiatric disabilities who need 24-hour care in the vicinity. The indications are often issued for a short period of time in the Youth Act, while the problem is also characterised by persistence and long-termness. The psychiatric illness may have a erratic course and there may be improvement, but it must often be seen within the spectrum of the psychiatric illness. The problem of double-diagnosis also plays a role in this. The young person with a combination of an intellectual disability and a psychiatric disorder can, on account of his problem as an intellectually handicapped person, enter the Wlz. But if he or she is slightly mentally handicapped and psychiatric, then that is much more difficult, sometimes impossible, while it is necessary from the complexity of the overall problem. Why should we wait until these young people are 18 years old when it is clear that they have a psychiatric disorder with complex multiple problems and that they have a permanent need for 24-hour care, especially since 18-miners with intellectual disabilities and/or physical disabilities can be covered by the Long-Term Care Act, as I said earlier? Experts have indicated to us that there is a small group which, with a reasonable degree of certainty, will need 24-hour care in the vicinity. These are disorders that often occur at the end of puberty and at the beginning of adulthood. It is difficult for us to explain that someone can get an indication of the Long-Term Care Act when he or she is 18 years and two months but not when he or she is 17 years and ten months, in particular because the indications about the Youth Act are just different from those of the Long-Term Care Act. Concerned messages that we receive often tell us very deeply what the consequences of an indication are for a vulnerable person. I think it is up to us as legislators to build the system in such a way that the vulnerable do not feel crushed and that people are not written off but can be placed in the right form of care. That is why Mrs Bergkamp has also tabled an amendment on our behalf to allow access to the Long-Term Care Act for a very specific group of 18 miners. This amendment aims to enable young people with psychiatric indications to access the Wlz if a number of conditions are met. First of all, the CDA considers that meeting the conditions laid down in this amendment is of great importance from the point of view of care. The evaluation of the Youth Act should be completed. Secondly, it is necessary to identify how the CIZ can define the group. Thirdly, consultation with the municipality should take place. Fourthly, there must be capacity at the CIZ. Finally, healthcare providers should also be able to prepare for this. In short, there is still some work to be done, but fortunately there is still time before this can be worked out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	When I hear that whole list of conditions, I am curious what period Mr Slootweg is thinking of. It's gonna be a while before that law comes in. How many years does he think he'll need for this whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	I hope it doesn't take so many years at all. It's not so much in the period either. I believe that the evaluation of the Youth Act will come this year as far as youth-ggz is concerned. I just want to see what healthcare providers have to deal with. I have recently made a work visit and the staff indicated that it may well mean something to them if they also have to give young people under the age of 18 a place. I think I should take that seriously. It's not like ten years. That is not the purpose of the proposal. But care will guide me in that. That's what I wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	And then how harsh are the terms? I just asked Mrs Bergkamp: is it conditional? If one of the points states that we cannot meet the condition, for example, if it would be more expensive despite the condition of affordability, the CDA says: then it is not going to happen? Or does the CDA say: then the government must adapt and make it possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	But did you hear me say that this is about affordability? I mentioned a number of points for the evaluation, for example the need to identify how the group should be delineated. And now you're going to pretend that we're dealing with a matter of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Hijink comes with his evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	Well, I don't have to read the text, because I just know it's in there. One of the three conditions in Mrs Bergkamp's amendment, which includes your name, is: budgetary neutrality is the starting point. That's just what it says. There are two ways to look at that. From a starting point you can say: we assume that, but if it does not happen, then that is also good; then we raise money. Fine. But if the starting point should also be the norm, the law, then I do have a problem with that. Then Mr Slootweg says: 'budgetary neutral' means that what is now being spent in the Youth Act must also be spent in the Long-Term Care Act, and otherwise we cannot proceed to placing young people in long-term care. If that is the purpose of the amendment, and also the explanation of the CDA, then I have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	I have just indicated the five points that matter to us. As far as this part of the amendment is concerned, I have already indicated that, in the written consultation on this law, it is impossible for me to believe that these vulnerable people in the Long-Term Care Act receive a different, better care than that they should receive under the Youth Act. I expect the municipalities to take these young people in a good way at the moment. And so it can be budget-neutral. I can't imagine that if you transfer the good care you're trying to provide under the Youth Act to the Long-Term Care Act, it's gonna have to be more expensive, or cheaper. I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I think you were finishing up. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	I had a little page. And I think I've got some time, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	Of course. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	In short, there is still some work to be done, and now I repeat myself before it is worked out and prepared. The CDA, together with Mr De Lange of the VVD, has tabled another amendment. This is a so-called "front" in relation to the expiry of the three-year criterion. We would like the House of Representatives to be able to take part in and decide on the financial consequences of the abolition of the three-year criterion and its consequences for risk settlement. We would like to receive a response to this amendment. Then I have a few small questions. How does the government continue to ensure that the target group moving to the Long-Term Care Act does not notice as little of this as possible? So how does she ensure that in the intervening period good care is preserved and that there is no such thing as: oh, it's over anyway, so we can scale it down? That responsibility must continue to be felt by everyone at the moment. The bill is based on a specialist treatment as an integral part of the Wlz appeal. This also fits in with the Long-Term Care Act. But for the RIBW settings, that's new. We can see that they are working on this. Working groups have been set up. For the CDA, it is important for the Ministry to offer a helping hand and monitor whether this is done in time. Can the government inform the Chamber of this matter six months before the entry into force of this bill and at the same time indicate what further action it can take if there are any further steps to be taken? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I now give the floor to Mr De Lange on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Six months ago, I met Tim. He's in his late 20s, a guy's tree, physically healthy. Tim has limited intellectual ability and has been in a ggz clinic for a long time. He's got a past full of drugs and bad friends. Luckily it was quiet in his head now, but it goes wrong regularly. Then he walks away and goes to those bad friends. The area now knows how it works and the police can usually bring him back to the clinic soon. Unfortunately, Tim resists strongly. Afterwards, Tim deeply regrets the many violence he then used. To the question I asked him about what he would like in the future, Tim replied: a quiet place, far away from my bad friends, where I can work outside. When dealing with this bill, the question is: is this going to help Tim get the best out of his life? Mr. Chairman. There are more people like Tim, who have long-term complex mental problems, or where mental and physical problems come together, and therefore always need 24/7 care nearby. The organisation of good care proves to be complicated in practice. These people and their families are already getting a lot out of it, and then it doesn't help if the care money comes from all different pots. The stress surrounding the periodic review also does not help to give the desired rest. People don't want systems, they want good care and space for recovery. The VVD therefore sees it as a good step that this bill allows ggz clients to be covered by the Long-Term Care Act under certain conditions. The Wlz has always been a very specific arrangement for a specific group of people. The access is therefore strict. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is good, because the scheme is not the best option for everyone. The introduction of the law therefore requires due care, a view of proper implementation and the management of expectations. How do you prevent false hope? Does the Secretary of State see this? Where does he expect bottlenecks and how will he solve them? I would like to give an example of this, which was mentioned earlier in the debate. In order to gain access to the Wlz, care must be of a lasting nature. But with psychological vulnerability, especially among young people, it is very difficult to determine whether the need for care is permanent. A mental disorder often has a erratic course. The mental illness can also fluctuate. The question is how this is dealt with in the indication. What kind of medical and legal frameworks are the health offices going to use? In what way will the CIZ involve the municipalities? Is it also taking into account that municipalities are going to make more use of the multiannual indication, i.e. to take longer decisions, especially in the case of young people? And does the Secretary of State also see a role for himself to steer on this? Mr. Chairman. The effects of this bill have been highlighted. An estimate has been made of the number of people using the Wlz on the basis of a psychic basis. The mathematicians who drew up these estimates themselves do not exclude that it is going to fall higher. Can the Secretary of State comment on the assurance of these estimates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	This is a special debate because it is perhaps Mr De Lange's last debate. Of course, anything can happen, but I'll just mark it for a second. In this debate I would like to ask Mr De Lange a question. He is under Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. Nevertheless, he is asking crucial questions here, which I also asked in my first term. What's the delineation? Can we get a good look at that? How does Mr De Lange reconcile both critical questions with the signature he has given for an amendment that says: State Secretary, do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	This is very easy to explain, because it is a very careful amendment, with the criteria being properly formulated and the framework conditions laid down. This has already been mentioned in this debate. If these criteria are clearly stated, I am in favour of supporting such an amendment. But we are also in a debate today with the Secretary of State. It is therefore very good to clarify these questions in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	The amendment is there. Mr De Lange is merely asking a crucial question, namely how we define it. Intelligible and physical disabilities are easy to understand, but here we are talking about a problem which Mr De Lange also says: it sometimes has a erratic course. Sometimes it can come out violently. Sometimes it has to do with living conditions, like wrong friends. So how can he be so sure that he is under the amendment when he himself says: perhaps the Secretary of State should look at the proper definition of the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	That's actually the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	Yeah, that's a repeat of the question. They're certainly legitimate questions. That is why they are also in the framework for the feasibility of the amendment. It is also a good thing that, if all these conclusions and findings are there, they still go to the Chamber with a wide veil. These are all preconditions that are important. I think it's good to mark it. But it is still good to hear, in this debate, from the Secretary of State how he looks at it, how this can actually get a place in that indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	Also for the Acts: something has just been said about wrong friends. Let's be clear about that. Only wrong friends don't get you into the Long-Term Care Act. It was an interrupting debate, but perhaps Mr De Lange can also make a comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	I'd love to, because Mrs Bergkamp gave her own experience. I'll start with Tim's example too. That was an intrusive experience, because if you look that boy in the eye, who actually says with great regret in his voice that the weather had gone wrong when he doesn't want it to go wrong at all, then you know that you're talking here about people who are trying to get the best out of their lives, that they can't do it, and so it's very important that they find that good care and support. So I'm giving Tim a better life, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr De Lange is now talking about the conditions laid down in Mrs Bergkamp's amendment, which includes his own name. These are the conditions that apply before young people with mental illness can be admitted to long-term care. We're talking about these terms. Well, he says: there will be a new moment when we will decide whether or not to place a young person in long-term care here in this Chamber. Does he actually say that that's still completely open? That if one or two of those conditions is not or only moderately met, then it can also be that it is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	In my mind, you don't set conditions for nothing. That is the same as for the 18-plus category we have this bill on today. There are also conditions and today we have a weighting in this bill for what you would do. That's why I think you should look at everything in this situation, too. However, you do make a statement about the fact that there could be conditions and conditions in which it is conceivable, and I am thinking in particular of that category where the multi-problem is very serious, that one could say that the Wlz could be a good basis, including for people who are young.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	One of those conditions is pretty firm. That is a financial condition, namely that it should be done on a budget-neutral basis. The costs currently incurred in the Youth Act will have to be incurred in the Wlz as well, and otherwise this condition will not be met. That is in the explanatory statement to the amendment. How hard is that condition for the VVD? This condition does not apply to adults. That is where the Secretary of State himself writes that he assumes that it will cost EUR 70 million more in structural terms. There is now another condition for young people. My question to Mr De Lange is: how hard is that condition? If it turns out that this can't be budget-neutral, that it's going to cost more money, does he think the Secretary of State should come up with money? Or does that mean, in his case, that he thinks that you should not adopt this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	For the VVD, the money has to follow the client. That is also true in this case. And in this case it is also quite simple. It is now tasks that lie with the municipalities, where budgets are for the municipalities. Those funds then pass to the Wlz and then the money also has to be one-on-one. So I think this is a very clear starting point, which is currently also in the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	Yes, but that reasoning could also go for the adults. There's money in the city now, inside the Wmo. That money will be transferred to long-term care. I'm sorry it's all so very technical, Mr. Chairman; I can't help it either. This then goes to long-term care, but it does not take the starting point that you do apply to young people, namely that it should be budget-neutral. 'Cause, I just said that, there's gonna be 70 million more when it comes to that. So it's weird that the VVD makes a requirement or condition that doesn't apply to adults for young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	No, this is also provided for in the legislative proposal as it stands, that the same basic principle that the money follows the client is also applied here. Later in my speech, I am going to ask a number of questions about this, in order to ensure, on the contrary, that these budgets also happen and that, on the front, it is clear that these budgets are shifting, I shall say. I also think that makes sense, because the care is carried out by someone else. It is therefore logical that the money for this care should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	Actually, I was already in the finance department. Can the Secretary of State comment on the assurance of the estimates? What instruments does he have in his hands if it turns out that the costs are high? The information shows that 25% of people who are entitled to Wlz care on the basis of their stay do not currently use it. Can the Secretary of State explain what's going on? Doesn't the Wlz provide for their needs? Are there other reasons why they are not using their indication at the moment? Does he also expect this kind of percentage around the present proposal? If so, how many people would it be? For the VVD, it's important that the money follows the client; I just said it. If you pay care first from the Wmo, the city's money goes one-on-one to the Wlz. Can the Secretary of State confirm this one more time? How are the municipalities in this? What agreements have been made on this? Next, the VVD is still concerned about uncertainties about inflow and tariffs. What if the number of people reporting is higher than expected? What amounts should we think about? And then the rates. The development of the Wlz tariffs will not be completed until September 2019. If this is a problem, the Minister of Health will consider whether and how to steer it. But what is this really going to mean in practice and how is the Chamber involved in this? I'd like to get a reaction to that. In order to be able to accept this bill with confidence, it is important that today's questions are clarified. The legislative process has a long history and it is good that this clarity is going to come about. However, we want to offer a group additional protection. That is the group that is already receiving three years of treatment with residence through the Zvw on the basis of a mental disorder, the so-called continued stay. The VVD wants to prevent people who are already entitled to access from getting into trouble when implementing the present legislative proposal. Mr Slootweg has already mentioned this, so we have tabled a common amendment. I would therefore like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to this amendment. Mr. Chairman. The VVD thinks it's important that everyone gets the chance to participate. This is the starting point for people living with mental vulnerability. Whatever situation you're in, it's important to be able to develop yourself. For me, this is an important political motivation, which I would like to mention in my last debate in this Chamber. That is why I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how work on recovery is secured for the group of people we are talking about today. How is it foreseen that people can also flow out of the Long-Term Care Act if recovery is possible? How is the transition to, for example, protected living organised in conjunction with good care? I would like to hear the Secretary of State's reflection on this point. Mr. Chairman. It would be very nice if this bill would help Tim make his dreams come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u116	Thank you, Mr. De Lange. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an amendment to the law that will make long-term care accessible to people with mental illness. By adding the basis mental disorder to the Wlz's health-care access criteria, people with mental impairment can also rely on care from the Wlz. Mr. Chairman. We support this change of law. However, young people with mental illness remain excluded from the Long-Term Care Act with this bill. They continue to receive care and support from the Youth Act. According to experts, this is a very small group of about 300 young people with a high need for care. Four years after decentralisation, it appears that aid to vulnerable children is seriously inadequate. We have many debates on this. Care for children with severe long-term ggz problems is not going well. Good and appropriate care stays out too often. The Secretary of State says that if the psychological problem is not taken into account in the indication, the human being as a whole is in fact not considered. The same principle applies to these children, I would say. Of course, it is difficult to estimate whether a child will actually continue to need permanent supervision for the rest of his life or 24-hour care in the vicinity. But you can judge that at some point, can't you? Nobody, not an adult, is in the Wlz for fun, right? According to the Secretary of State, the municipality has the best view of the children's overall living situation. He sketches a far too rosy picture here. Four years after the introduction of the Youth Act, we know that this is not always the case, that aid for vulnerable children is particularly inadequate and that municipalities still have no place in their affairs. Municipalities often cannot cope with the complex care questions of these children. Municipalities are often unable to cope with even the less complex care questions. These are children who are already experiencing serious mental illness at a very young age, often in combination with learning difficulties. Several organisations see major risks in caring for these children in municipalities. Moreover, local budgets are not sufficient at all. We prefer to follow the line of Mr Hijink's amendment to part No. 10 to grant these young people access to the Wlz by means of this amendment. We had the same amendment in preparation, but Mr Hijink was before. The amendment in part No. 12 of the coalition parties with Mrs Bergkamp as initiator want to map the effects of this transfer. For us, that's a good second. But I will propose to my group to vote in favour, because I think I am the middle party here between D66 and the SP. It is nice to be able to play that role for once!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u118	It's nice to see that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u119	Sure. It's gonna take longer. I am very curious how much longer it is going to take, but in the end the goal we want will be achieved. Finally. A third of the inpatient ggz-spots did not make it during the previous cabinet period, which also means that people with mental illness have to stay at home for longer on their own or not to be admitted. Again, there are poignant cases between crisis relief and home. Some of these people will be able to access the Wlz soon. We like that, but are there enough suitable places or forms of housing care, as these are called today, I ask the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u120	Thank you, Mrs Agema. This also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u121	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour, so until 2:30. Then we'll vote on one motion first. Then there is the regulation and then the Secretary of State addresses all the questions raised by the Members of Parliament and the amendments. Thank you for this moment.
