ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on assistance fraud by Turkish Dutch. I welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am going to explain to you that Dutch people are forced to sponsor Islam and Islamic countries, through the assistance. We are doing it in all kinds of ways, and this is also reflected in the fact that we are being countered in recovering unfairly paid benefits from people from, for example, Turkey. You'll be taken care of in the Netherlands as soon as you come in here. This has been happening for 40 years and the current government is even going to take care of people: they get priority over a social housing unit and a lot of things for free, such as education and care. They are helped by learning Dutch and getting a job. They're all helped by that. But what it results in is that most newcomers have been doing this for 40 years, since mass immigration began to land in the assistance or, not most but very much, even for a very long time. It now appears that about 52% of the assistance in the Netherlands is devoted to non-Western immigrants who do not have long-term jobs in the Netherlands. We are talking about EUR 8.2 million a year, which disappears from the pockets of Dutch workers who pay tax money in Turkish, Moroccan, Somali and other non-Western immigrant bags. Then there is the next point. We need to check that these people are entitled to assistance. Don't they have real estate or assets abroad? Municipalities have found a good way to check this within six to eight weeks and then comes the Central Board of Appeal, which says: no way, Jose, in his Dutch words, the ECHR Article 14 is bothering, because one cannot discriminate. That article's been stuck pretty much since 1950, 1960. Thinking in the Netherlands is actually replaced by it, because if you are not allowed to discriminate, you can no longer think. Mr. Chairman. The government is struggling to deal with this fraud in a complicated way, long and with less success. The conclusion is that Dutch people have to work to give newcomers everything they have to pay for their tax money. They are forced to do so, but the real estate can hardly be checked out by Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. So we can't get that money back. Dutch people are discriminated against here. The Netherlands is being financially sucked out. The result is that millions of Dutch money is taken away by the government and distributed to foreigners. They often don't even have a right to it, because of assets such as real estate and property. If we're gonna get our money back, the conclusion is that that stupid ECHR is getting in our way. What's to be done? First, we all have to draw the conclusion and soberly establish that our money is our money and our money must remain. We shouldn't just keep throwing money at everyone. Stop that mass immigration, stop giving free benefits, you name it. We must stop discrimination against all Dutch people, because they are forced to pay tax money that ends up in those other pockets. We just have to stop. We need to exclude proven fraudsters from a benefit forever, so I call on the Secretary of State. In particular, give the municipalities priority and all the room for prioritising the search, because the municipalities would like to do so. They shouldn't be bothered. If necessary, this is the end of the picture, and the PVV has called for this more often. Maybe we should stop with that crazy ECHR. We also need to stop all the legal exceptions that exist at the end of benefit laws, because they are always behind. I remember the debates with Mrs Klijnsma on this. Those exceptions must stop at once, because there is always an official in the municipality at the end of the story who is allowed to apply all kinds of exceptions which still give half-imported Netherlands a benefit. This means that we also maintain Islam Sponsoring and we must stop doing so. I call on the Secretary of State to do this. Those were my points for today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u3	A clear story of the PVV, as we know the PVV. I may have difficulty with several parts of the story, but especially with the part where you say: on the one hand you have Dutch people and on the other hand people from other countries. We are having the debate today, I thought, about Turkish Dutch. It can also be about Moroccan Dutch, or if you like about Somali Dutch, but they are also Dutch. They are people who may have worked here or who otherwise contribute to the Netherlands, who do not have a job and who call for assistance. I recognise that this is not always good, but do you recognise that this is also about people of Dutch nationality, who also belong in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u4	Look, it's been proven. The debate is about a newspaper report from last year and has already been requested by my colleague De Jong a year ago. By examining the statements of the Central Board of Appeal, it was discussed that it was mainly about Turkish Dutch. I don't really care. I don't want to make a distinction. They could be Moroccans, Somalis, Eritreans, Afghans, Egyptians; you name the whole OIC. It can also be about Poland, Romanians or Bulgarians. We don't care. Any fraud must be traced. Anyone who has committed fraud with a benefit must be denied forever and must repay the amount wrongly received. Very simple, so we're not going to make a distinction. If Mr Raemakers says that these people have also contributed to the Netherlands, then I do not entirely agree with him but partly agree with him. A number of people work, of course, but a very large number of people end up in welfare, for a very long time in the WW or in all kinds of other welfare situations; we have quite a few in the Netherlands. In particular, the assistance has become an immigrant hangout. I told you before: it costs us 8.2 million euros a day, so this week, if I calculate quickly, that's already 57.4 million euros. That's a lot of money every day. You can't do that to the Dutch who all work hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u5	I don't think that's a pleasant way to talk about people; I really don't like the sound of it. But I also have a question for Mr De Graaf. Imagine this. You came to the Netherlands in the seventies or eighties as a guest worker from Turkey or Morocco. Let's just say you worked 20, 25 years. You become unemployed for any reason and you first end up in the WW or in another scheme. I can't find a new job. Then you'll be on welfare. At some point you get a legacy from abroad that you weren't aware of for a number of years. Then you find out and it turns out that the city says to you: you committed welfare fraud. Does Mr De Graaf think that this person, who has worked for many years and who did not fully know that he had an inheritance or possession abroad, should never receive any more assistance and, if necessary, suffer hunger or be expelled from his home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u6	That's always nice, that tactic from the left: you take one example of a few people who have indeed worked in the Netherlands and then you spread it all over the group. That's how you shave a whole group over one comb. I do not like to do that, so I leave that to Mr Raemakers. You don't have to put the whole group on the same page, because a lot of those people haven't worked or never worked. But you can ask yourself the following about the one specific case of Mr. Raemakers, of that one Turkish gentleman or ma'am. You came to Holland, you did get to work and that was a long time ago. Then you end up under Dutch regulations. I'm not gonna make a big deal about that right now if someone's actually contributed. But then: that person is not aware of the fact that he owns real estate or property in another country? Did you know how to read and write? Do you still have contact with your previous country? Why didn't you go back to that country when you lost your job? Then what did you come to Holland to talk to Theo van Gogh, who was killed for that kind of statement? What are your intellectual abilities if you don't know you've been given an inheritance? What's going on? And that is the problem of the Netherlands? No, that's these people's problem. And indeed, if afterwards proved that there was fraud, then that is fraud. Period, simple, out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u7	Finally, Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u8	You can't always find that it's black and white and it's fraud or not. That is what I will say in my own contribution. But we should not generalise here; that is how Mr De Graaf began his reply. That is exactly what I want to demonstrate with this example. And then I get a reaction: it may be a few who have worked. It concerns a lot of people, who have worked for many years. What the PVV is doing here is saying: the majority is not working, the majority has never worked. That's not true! Mr De Graaf corrected himself earlier in his speech when he said: "Oh no, it is not the majority. There are many or some." But I would really like to draw attention to the example I mentioned. I would appreciate it if the representative of the PVV would take that example. That is not one case, because it symbolises a lot of people who have worked and contributed here for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u9	I have answered very specifically, and I have avoided generalised treatment. I said to Mr Raemakers that the Count is not going to generalize here; I am not going to go along with that. And then Mr. Raemakers comes back with the fact that I'm generalizing. No, I was just going against that generalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u10	The PVV rightly says: if people are cheating, they simply need to be treated hard. I think we're all unanimous on that. The whole Chamber is unanimous when it comes to fraud: fraud must be tackled. I suppose you are, aren't you? When I look at Mr De Graaf's speech, it is full of stigmas. He says: the Dutchman is discriminated against. When I look at the investigations that have taken place in recent years by malicious research agencies,... Dutch people have not been investigated, but people of Turkish origin and people of Moroccan origin have. All ethnicities have been investigated and the Dutch have not. And then Mr De Graaf says: Dutch people are discriminated against. Then I think, "Yes, that's right. The Dutch have been discriminated against." Does Mr De Graaf therefore say that the Dutch must also be examined by these agencies whether they have apartments and real estate in Spain, France, Greece, Turkey or elsewhere? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u11	Let me begin by thanking Mr Öztürk for supporting Mr De Jong's motion. That wasn't too long ago; I don't remember the exact date. The entire opposition was kind of in favour of it and the coalition parties were opposed to reclaiming all the benefits from fraudsters and ensuring that they would never receive a benefit again. So that's where we'll find each other. Then DENK voted in favour and I liked getting that support. Then there is the next point. Oh, there's a book coming up, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u12	As long as we're together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u13	I don't know how long the next interruption will be, Mr. President. But if he's gonna read everything, we're gonna be busy tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u14	No, he can't read to me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u15	Are the Dutch being investigated? No, it's very simple to tackle fraud by Dutch people. I have called it 'discrimination against Dutch people', because especially the Dutch... The majority of the tax money in the Netherlands is paid by Dutch people. It's as simple as that. Let's keep naming the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u16	I happen to have with me the book of Joram van Klaveren, a former colleague of Mr De Graaf. The moment he said "we'll find each other," I thought: we already have a poll on the Internet about who would be next. I think after tonight you'll be one of the first to be next. I've got it on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u17	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u18	If you want to follow the path of Mr Joram van Klaveren, I will give you that book completely free of charge. But again, the point is that the Dutch who are in the assistance have not been investigated. That is why I am asking you again. You're constantly working on stigmas. You are constantly busy with the people of Turkish origin or Moroccan origin, the people who built the Netherlands in the 1960s and 1970s. Those people have worked very hard, even in The Hague where you live. Those people bring you into an evil light and stigmatize you. So I ask you again: do you think that beneficiaries of benefit in The Hague, where you live, who are of Dutch descent, should also be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr Öztürk says: I am against stigmatisation by the PVV. And then he says: all those Turks in the Netherlands, they have built the Netherlands. With that, he stigmats a lot...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u20	Partly built!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u21	Well, that word "part" wasn't there. And with that you stigmatize a lot of Dutch people who have done just that. There have indeed been a number of Turks and Moroccans in the Netherlands who have participated in the last 30 or 40 years. Most of the migrant workers from the time of the migrant workers have returned. After that, the big benefit mass immigration wave came at us. A number of them have also been involved. Mr Öztürk is a good example. He's even in the Lower House. It's beautiful. We can debate such matters. I really like that. Let us disagree, above all, on the fact that Mr Öztürk is joking about Mr Van Klaveren. Fine. Rest assured: I will not switch to the dark side of existence. So you can keep the book.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u22	That's what Joram said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u23	Fine. I told you, come on with the jokes. But I thought it was a little skinny. I would have expected more from Mr Öztürk. But okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr President, the last thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u26	When it comes to stigmatisation, I think Mr Öztürk should first look in the mirror himself. If you do not want to be done, do not do so to the other. That is the Jewish-Christian reciprocity that has made the Netherlands great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u27	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u28	It's The Telegraph coming up with that front page. It is Mr De Graaf who stigmats. It is the PVV group that constantly wants to put people with Turkish, Moroccan, Surinamese origins in an evil light. We are not saying at the moment that Mr Graus wants to be the pimp, that all PVV's are pimps? That's not what we're saying, is it? Then why are you trying to make these groups look bad in every debate? We don't do that to you, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u29	Well, Mr. Chairman, here we go. If the debate is to get dirty, it can get dirty and then Mr Öztürk is the first to do so. So once again, I am just saying to Mr Öztürk through you: first look in the mirror and look at yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u30	...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u31	No, wait a minute. Listen carefully to Mr De Graaf, which is the best thing Mr Öztürk can do tonight. Listen to what I have to say first. As far as I am concerned, the debate does not have to get dirty. I don't feel like it. So why don't you leave that kind of accusations to DENK? That disqualifies you. Then part two, about stigmatizing and similar, comes to stigmatize the PVV. One person but also group can self... We often talk about it in integration debates, discrimination debates, racism debates. I have explained it 100 times, but at those moments there was putty in Mr Öztürk's ears, I think. I've always explained it very nuancedly. If Mr Öztürk doesn't want to hear it, fine. A group can stigmatize itself. To respond to one point of Mr Öztürk's contribution: where have we ever put Surinamese annoying in the corner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u32	Then I must give Mr Öztürk the floor because you ask him a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u33	Oh, yeah. I shouldn't have done that. I wasn't aware of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u34	No, but that's okay. But I still want us to have the debate on content. And it's about social security fraud tonight. So bringing in colleagues and people: I would leave that out for a while. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr De Graaf calls in the entire Turkish-Dutch community, 50,000 people. I'll answer him. I'll hold him a mirror. In that mirror Mr. De Graaf is in the photo with "fraud."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u36	Where and when? Now, facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u37	Here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u38	Now, facts. Proven facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u39	Here. I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u40	Proven facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u41	Here. Proven facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u42	Proven facts, now. You don't have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u43	Proven facts: here. I have said several times here that Mr De Graaf does not want to give benefits to other people with fraud, while he has been guilty of fraud on several occasions. That's exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u44	I have serious objections to this. I've never been compromised for fraud. Mr Öztürk's allegations... Yeah, type them up yourself, type them up and pop up in my past. But there is no trace, but there is no trace of fraud. And keep your mouth shut about it forever! 'Cause I'm gonna hunt you down. Then you're mine! Finished, done! Now get in the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr President, a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u47	A personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr. Chairman. I'm being addressed here more or less threateningly. I think this is going too far. The time when the PVV could just talk about population groups here, that time is over. DENK is here, remember that! Why don't you go home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u49	I now give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan on behalf of the VVD. This is not the level at which MPs, representatives of the people, should behave.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'm thinking. What are you doing with a situation like that? I'm glad you're not sitting next to each other. That's okay. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A weekday morning. The alarm clock goes. Get up, have breakfast, go quickly to work, visit your parents just as quickly in between. And on the weekends, volunteering at your kids' sports club. This is what the lives of a lot of people in the Netherlands look like, of all those doers who make the Netherlands the beautiful country that it is. Sometimes it gets a little less, for example, when you lose your job. If it's a problem, we've arranged in this beautiful country that there's a safety net. And when you read in the hectic of your daily life in the news that there are people who light things up and use that social safety net for a second home, then of course your clog breaks. Apply for a benefit in the Netherlands and have a home abroad? I get that people get angry. We are conducting this debate in response to a report that the municipality of Tilburg was flagged back by the judge, because their fraud investigation formally focused only on one country: Turkey. Although municipalities must, of course and of course, comply with the law in their fraud investigations, it cannot be the case that people who abuse regulations get away with it. Our social safety net is paid for by hardworking people who pay taxes properly. We can't let fraudsters do that. As we have already pointed out, this means, in our view, that municipalities and the Social Insurance Bank will not only stop payments in the event of fraud, but will also have to recover them. During last November's budget debate, my colleague Wiersma and colleague Peters of the CDA tabled a motion on this very subject, a motion which calls on the Secretary of State to address two issues: to promote the active implementation by municipalities of their obligation to impose fines in the event of proven fraud and to recover the amounts of payments unduly received; and, secondly, to examine the possibility of changing the technical rule currently contained in the law and to ensure that recovery and the fine imposed fall under the debt title. This rule will give fraudsters the right to a benefit in a few weeks' time, i.e. the right to use our social safety net, while they have just cheated! We think that's really weird. This is not only frustrating for the relevant social detective in the municipality or at the Social Insurance Bank, but I cannot and will not explain it to all those people who do follow the rules properly. That is why I have the following question to the Secretary of State. What about the execution of the motion? In the meantime, are municipalities well informed about what should and should not be done? Are they also working to actively implement their responsibility to detect and tackle fraud? Is there also sufficient capacity available at the International Bureau of Fraud Information to assist municipalities in their task? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what opportunities municipalities already have within the law to prevent people from cheating on their benefits or at least finding fraud early. For example, do municipalities operate on the duty of someone with assistance to state their stay abroad? That could be such a signal that you can intervene early, at the moment when you have a suspicion that it may also go wrong. I would also like to hear if there are any other signs of rules in practice that seem to be cramped to detect fraud and tackle fraudsters. If so, what rules are those? What is the Secretary of State going to do to give municipalities the right tools to tackle fraudsters hard, so that we can prevent fraud in the future from paying off and that we are once again spooked by big headlines in the newspaper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr Öztürk. I have had an incredibly unpleasant feeling about the debate that has just taken place between you and Mr De Graaf. You're accusing him of fraud. That's a big deal. That's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u53	I used the word "pronunciation"!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u54	That kind of accusations... If you have proof, you'll have to report it or anything similar. I'm really sorry about this in a debate about each other. You may respond to this, but you may not discuss it with Mr De Graaf, but with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr President, once again, I said 'discourse'. I showed you the article. And I've talked to Mr De Graaf about this before. You know that. Secondly, he used the word "provoking," "I'll push you." I think it's okay to react when one Member of Parliament says to another Member of Parliament, "I'm gonna rush." These are dangerous terms. We are threatened daily by these kinds of words. I would ask you to say something about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u56	Sure, it's also about the words that are used. It's about personal attacks and allegations instead of content. When one calls something, the other responds to it. That's how you get a really nasty discussion like you just did. I would therefore like to appeal to you, but also to Mr De Graaff and other Members of Parliament, to stay on the subject of Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan's story, whether you agree or not. After a discussion like this, it just goes away. Everyone stays with the last interruption. Let's be very careful about that, or else it's gonna be... This is a parliament where you fight each other with words, but not with personal attacks. You may interrupt, but not in the same way again. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I also say to the spokesperson of the VVD, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, that all fraudsters must be dealt with by all of us; then we are unanimous. When I hear the story of the VVD about the hardworking Dutchman who gets up in the morning and reads the newspaper, in this case De Telegraaf with big headlines "Turkish Dutch frauds," I do not hear the VVD about that there are other fraudsters who reach the headlines. I just asked the PVV the same question. The Dutch who are in the assistance have not been investigated, only people with a migration background. Do you think that for that hardworking Dutchman, who rightly says 'community money', that group should also be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u58	For the VVD, it is clear that any fraud must be dealt with. Whether someone's red, black, yellow, blue, purple, I don't care, that's not in question for me. Now it is true that in the Netherlands all our systems are linked together and so it comes up rather quickly if you own three cars, have a caravan somewhere. Well, I can go on for a while. So the moment something pops up, you don't have to start an entire investigation abroad. Then it just happens here in the Netherlands and that is already a lot harder. This is specifically about the obligation of intelligence. As far as I am concerned, this applies to anyone who uses the social safety net.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u59	We also have a lot of Dutch people who have a house in Turkey, Greece, Spain, France, who are not in our systems and whose people are also in the assistance. So far, no investigation has been carried out by your own Secretary of State. Do you agree with me that this should also be investigated, so that we can track down all the fraudsters in the Netherlands and thus give a signal to the hard-working Dutchman: we want to tackle all the fraudsters regardless of their origins?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u60	At the moment a municipality has signals that a... What am I supposed to call that, Mr. Chairman? A Dutchman? I think it's getting a little complicated. If there are signs at a local authority that such a person is committing fraud, then of course it must be investigated. I've just indicated: I don't care what color someone is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. Yeah? The final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u62	In this case, rogue research agencies are hired by the municipalities with community money to conduct research elsewhere into people of Turkish and Moroccan descent. My question is to do the same with research offices to Spain, France and all kinds of other countries where people in the assistance can also have real estate. With that, you can no longer avoid me and perhaps say: I agree with you, let us ask the Secretary of State to examine carefully all welfare recipients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u63	I think it's important, given the limited budgets we have, that you're relying on signals. There are also risk profiles for this. Again, all this must comply with the law, because we agree that there should be no discrimination. At the moment, Madam President, I would like to say once again to Mr Öztürk, through you, that there is a signal that someone is cheating, that action must simply be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start, I would like to say a few words about the order of business. I found it particularly uncomfortable what just happened on both sides. However, I would like to appeal to you to really maintain order, because I am shocked by it. I did not pay much attention to Mrs Nijkerken's contribution, because I was so impressed by what happened. People in the country just expect us to solve serious problems. I just wanted to say that I don't think what happened here is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u66	I agree. I said something about that, too, unless you have a proposal on how I can...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u67	I just needed to get it off my chest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u68	I understand that very well and rightly that you say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u69	I also call on colleagues not to use personal facts, but also not to say afterwards: I will hunt you down. Threats like that are already on the order of the day. Let us not say that to each other at all, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u70	I totally agree with you. It's a good thing you said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u71	It's just very unpleasant to start a debate like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u72	Fine. You may respond, Mr. De Graaf. Without it escalating again, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u73	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I just kept my mouth shut. I thought, "Let's just wait and see." Of course I shouldn't have said that. I take that back as the first thing I've ever done. But a politician, someone who calls himself a politician, an elected representative of the people, is in any case a politician who builds an argument or an interruption... Of course, I can have a lot. I have a former colleague to defend. I'm thinking, "Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Then I must defend a colleague who is unjustly accused. And then, for the tenth time, Mr Öztürk has wrongly accused me. At that point, I'm a human being, too. Then I'm so sick of this guy, I've used a little too harshly in parliamentary terms. I apologise here to Mr Raemakers and the rest of the House, but it does indicate that not every multiculturality is an enrichment of the Netherlands. We've just seen a clash of that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u74	Good...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u75	No, but that's also the coffee made by the company we just saw here and it gets pretty hot sometimes. And again, I take back some of the words of that. I should have reacted less strongly, and I will leave Mr Öztürk behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u76	I'm glad you're taking those words back, too. It's part of a debate like this. If something is said out of emotion and you regret whether it was in the heat of the discussion, you must also be able to apologize and you have done so. Thank you for that. Proceed, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, I am pleased that certain words have been taken back. That might make me stand here again with a slightly easier feeling. Mr President, thank you for the floor. We are having a debate today on assistance fraud by Turkish Dutch. For D66, it doesn't matter who commits the fraud, whatever the nationality or background of someone. It is obvious that fraud should never pay off. Fraud must be avoided as much as possible. If fraud is committed, we must punish, but proportionate. Finally, we need to look carefully at how international cooperation can contribute to a better fight against fraud. Along those three lines, my contribution has been built today. I am going to talk about preventing fraud, punishing fraud and international cooperation. First, preventing fraud. Fraud involving welfare benefits undermines the basis for our social security. Social services are generated from taxpayers' money and abuse must therefore be addressed. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her letter, which clearly sets out this approach. However, it is very important for my group that welfare recipients are well aware of the rights and obligations associated with their benefits. Knowledge of the obligation of information plays an important role in this. Recent research by Divosa shows that violations of the intelligence obligation can be reduced by clear communication and regular customer contact. What do municipalities do about this and how can the Secretary of State help them? The same study shows that a large proportion of new claims involve undue payments: 54% of the 220,000 new claims. Too much money is wrongly paid out by untimely handling of the benefit administration. According to Divosa, these undue payments can also be largely prevented. Can the Secretary of State confirm this figure, which is 54%? How does it bring down this figure? Then punishing fraud. Fraud must be punished. Too much or wrongly received assistance must be repaid. In addition, a fine must be paid, but the letter from the Secretary of State opens the door to go a little further. She finds the rule wealth is property minus debt" a problem. The MPs Wiersma and Peters have tabled a motion here, which has also been adopted with a request to examine whether this rule can be deleted as far as recovery and the fine are concerned. D66 voted against this motion. Fraud must not pay, but penalties must be proportionate. If we really ever delete the rule that property is less guilt, then we are very much afraid that it will kick people out of the house and get out on the street. We fear that people will starve. I don't think anyone wants that. Can the Secretary of State take these concerns into account in her investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'm just trying to land what Mr Raemakers says. If someone owns abroad, which has not reported and the municipality finds out, then this municipality says: you have wrongly paid benefits, you get a fine and we are going to recover the money. What is D66's view that the current rule should be removed from the system, which means that you have negative assets and are once again eligible for benefits? Does D66 think that there is no need to renounce the ability that people have? Mr Raemakers actually says: keep that, and oh, you are also entitled to a benefit; you have cheated, but we also find it very annoying if you can't eat any more sandwiches.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u79	We do, of course, believe that the assets should be disposed of. For example, if it is a house that is located somewhere abroad, it must be tried to sell it. I'm just saying. But sometimes that happens in a week and sometimes it can take six months. At a time when someone has to pay back everything that can really go up in the tens of thousands or perhaps hundreds of thousands of euros if it comes down to a lot of years and gets a fine on top of that, these really are indicators for getting into debt. Of course we agree with Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan that power must be abandoned. But if we see that people already have a very large post that they have to pay back, we should not also say that they are no longer receiving benefits. If it is people who do not have a job, who have nothing else to live on, then we think that we should also look at the harrowing cases. We must prevent people from being evicted from their rental homes, for example, or from going to the food bank because they have no money. After all, they no longer have benefits, because we are going to withdraw them with the plans of the VVD. That's our concern. Fraud can't pay off, we have to punish hard, but not too hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u80	In my opinion, this rule means that people do not have to have this ability at all. So that's how it pays to cheat. Maybe the Secretary of State can come back to this in her term. These are proven fraudsters, people who scammed the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u81	Then what happens is this. If you get a benefit, you'll have the unwound foot. That's the rule that makes people keep money so they can pay for their rentals and they can eat a little bit and pay for some clothes. The amount remaining after that is indeed small. We in D66 think that people should always have something to live on. These are indeed two principles, I agree with the VVD. On the one hand, you must ensure that fraud does not pay off, but on the other hand, you must also ensure that people can always have a decent life. You also have to take into account distressing situations. As I explained earlier in my speech, fraud is not black and white. There are many cases of alleged fraud, where people simply are not well aware of the obligations they have. That's also often about foreign assets. People often don't know how much they're worth. That could happen sometime. People can make a mistake sometime. We say, then, take action, but not too hard and not so that it becomes inhumane.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u83	Oh, yeah, I totally forgot I had another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u84	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u85	I also have a minute' s speaking time. I will continue with international cooperation. Exchange of information with Turkey and Morocco in property studies is often difficult. Does the Secretary of State see the moment when the exchange of information with Morocco, for example, is fully in order? And can sufficient information currently be obtained on the basis of public sources for property investigations on Turkey? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the specific focus of property studies based on individual nationalities. On the basis of the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, there should be equal treatment regardless of nationality. So you can't just focus on Turkey because it's Turkey, and you can't necessarily never include people from Belgium or Mexico in your sample. That would be discrimination. How does the Secretary of State ensure that the commitment of all municipalities in the Netherlands remains within the framework of the European Treaty? And how does the Secretary of State prevent discrimination by municipalities or other bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you for your comments on the language this evening and the personal allegations that have been made. I would like to ask all my colleagues from this place to conduct the debate here always worthy and respectful. Unfortunately, I see some of my colleagues have left. Tonight's subject brings with it a dilemma. Because, on the one hand, we are dealing with Turkish Dutch people who have been given unlawful assistance for possession abroad. On the other hand, it is considered to be discrimination if only research is carried out on Turkish territory, according to the Central Appeals Board. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is not naive: where necessary, strict enforcement is necessary. In this situation, public money is being spent on people who do not need it. We must punish offenders, otherwise it will also be at the expense of social security support. However, we advocate smart enforcement; I have already done so in several debates. A smart enforcement strategy, characterised by personal attention, leads to better results. A lot of research has been done on this too. That is why we want smart enforcement where this can be done, but also strictly where it is necessary. What we're not for is suspecting large groups of people in advance. This creates discrimination; we are opposed to it. So we don't want to throw a big dragnet on Turkish territory or among Turkish Dutch people, where we only want to catch a few fish. Last week, the municipality of Rotterdam came up with the initiative to carry out an experiment aimed at strengthening the risk profile of potential fraudsters. Criteria mentioned: suspicion of unreported long-term foreign residence, deposits or receipts from external accounts, residence in the same country. These criteria are already much more objective than the criterion that you are a Turkish Dutchman, and are therefore much more desirable as far as we are concerned. By making greater use of such criteria, it is possible to maintain them in a very targeted and effective way. Does the Secretary of State agree that criteria on the basis of which research is carried out should be relevant and should not refer in advance to matters such as birth date or country of birth? And if not, why not? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks wants to be sure that when research is carried out it is done in as fair a way as possible. The Secretary of State writes that she wants to support municipalities in this. I would like to make a suggestion for this, namely the involvement of the Human Rights College. With a formal opinion from the College of Human Rights to the government, municipalities are given a clear framework at the front on which to base their research. In this way, they will not be able to find out by means of an appeal procedure that they cannot recover because they have discriminated against them. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask the College of Human Rights for advice in the short term on which municipalities can base their research on beneficiaries, what is the framework? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is concerned about putting a group at the centre versus looking at individuals. Tossing a towed net on Turkish territory alone or only among Turkish Dutch prove illegal. Targeted throwing out a net is a lot more effective, but municipalities need to know exactly what that net looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. "Every penny of fraud means undermining solidarity in our social security. That is not acceptable. That is why we want to take this harder. If you cheat, you can count on getting caught and getting a fine." These are not the words of this Secretary of State, but those of Secretary of State De Krom in 2011 in a debate on welfare fraud by people with a different country of origin than the Netherlands. The question to today's Secretary of State is: what have we achieved in all these intervening years with regard to specifically foreign assistance fraud? Assistance is not a nice pocket penny or holiday money, but a necessary safety net for someone who can no longer provide for his maintenance. It has to stay that way. This form of fraud must be stopped. That enforcement abroad is more complex should not be an excuse, and that it is not a matter for the municipality either. In the answer to questions from Mr Jasper van Dijk at the end of last year, I read with some concern that municipalities should investigate the accuracy and completeness of the data provided. We understand that, but an in-depth investigation is really not easy. Primary verification of data provided on assets does not take place for all recipients of assistance, i.e. not those of foreign origin. Our question is: why not, and for how many welfare recipients not? 50PLUS considers it extremely unsatisfactory that there is still no complete picture of the extent of this perverse form of fraud. I hardly dare to say it, but I ask: is it true now, looking at the figures, that it is mainly a Turkish problem? Is this true now? Also, the documents do not give us any insight into the overall fraud approach by municipalities and its effectiveness. And there has to be, because this is about community money. We look forward to the integrated alert letter with which the VNG will come. Any sign of when it's coming? We hope to have as complete a picture as possible of trends in and the forms of misuse and misuse of assistance, including this particular form of fraud. Is this letter really going to give the clarity and the overall picture why we are asking? We believe that we need to know how often and how actively municipalities verify asset information of clients of foreign origin and how effectively they tackle and recover reported fraud. We also refer to cases where municipalities choose a different approach to fraud than cooperation with the International Bureau of Fraud Information of the UWV and with the SVB. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? 50PLUS likes to hear from the Secretary of State how she intends to achieve a totally equal, effective fraud approach for all people with welfare benefits. What is it going to do in concrete terms to help municipalities tackle this difficult, specific form of fraud more effectively? And above all: how will it further optimise the exchange of information with foreign nationals? 50PLUS considers that the deduction of the amount of assistance recovery and the fine for the foreign assets recorded should never lead to the right to assistance. This problem needs to be resolved quickly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For a long time, it has been a taboo in some circles of the Netherlands to mention the improper use of social laws, for example abuse of care money or lying about asylum procedures. Of course it was acknowledged that things may not be going well here and there, but it was found scandalous that you made a serious problem of this with all your wealth. Mr. Chairman. There is little that makes people more angry than knowing that they do everything they can to keep their heads above water and live within the limits of the law, seeing or thinking that others get away with fraud or abuse, especially when that should not be said out loud. Mr. Chairman. Most people think trust is good, but control better. They think that people should not give themselves and each other the chance to go wrong. Maybe that's not an idealistic world view, but it's so sober. On the other hand, if they know that their money is being handled well, people want to give it generously. Mr. Chairman. The rules of assistance are clear. Having assets is not in line with asking for assistance from another person. I have said before, on a regular basis, that the government should behave like a good neighbour: always willing to help, but only if the other neighbour also does everything to avoid needing that help. I want to help my neighbor, even with money if he really needs it, but not if he's driving around in a Mercedes or owns a vacation home in Ibiza. All too well, neighbors are crazy. Mr. Chairman. I regularly speak to people of Turkish origin who claim to be ashamed of themselves because their former compatriots are making a mess of it. Most people just follow the law and those who do not need to be dealt with. I quote an Ossenaar who says: "These people not only indirectly throw my good name into gibberish. They also undermine the welfare state and that's not okay." As far as we're concerned, that's definitely not okay. Mr. Chairman. Discrimination is prohibited. Before the law, everyone's equal. It should not therefore be the case that possession abroad, whether Germany, Belgium or Turkey, would not count in determining the right to assistance, even if it is more difficult to find out. In that context, I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. Is it true that people with possessions abroad would be easier to cheat than people with possessions in the Netherlands, simply because it is more difficult to control? Is it true that it is still relatively easy to find out in Turkey, because authorities are cooperating there? What is the situation in other countries? Thirdly, what will the Secretary of State do to make enforcement easier in other countries such as Morocco, Belgium, Germany, Spain and anywhere else? I am considering a motion on this point: how can we make it easier? Mr. Chairman. It's very simple for the CDA. Fraud is irresistible and especially if you get the feeling that population groups are getting off the ground when it comes to enforcement. The Secretary of State states in her letter that municipalities experience bottlenecks in the recovery of assets of Turkish Dutch people due to judgments of the Central Board of Appeal. Work is under way to update a guide for municipalities to facilitate recovery. This update would be ready in the autumn of 2018. I'll ask the Secretary of State what's going on with that. Finally, a very bad bottleneck. In the event of the recovery of assets, the amount and administrative penalty may be deducted as debt from the assets recorded, I read. As a result, the capacity of the fraudster concerned may be below the capital limit. This may result in the person concerned returning to normal entitlement to assistance and the benefit being continued. Thus fraud is really rewarded rather than punished. The Secretary of State rightly identifies this as a problem and indicates that it is examining whether the Participation Act can be amended in this respect. Has it replied to this and what measures is it going to take to prevent payment of assistance fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u92	I have a question for the CDA about word usage. I just heard that "population groups" are coming out of the dance. Did the CDA mean to say "population groups" here or "individuals"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u93	Groups of people. I have tried to say that there is little that makes people more angry when they themselves do their best to keep to the law and see or think that other people are coming out of the dance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u94	Under "other people," do you mean specific groups that cheat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u96	You don't mean generic population groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u97	Groups of people who cheat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u98	Then we've understood each other very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u99	I have another question on that last point by Mr Peters. You are indeed getting that strange situation that people are due to be entitled to benefits again after they've cheated. That is a strange situation indeed, but Mr Raemakers said, as I think rightly so, that you must prevent people from having nothing at all and falling into poverty. How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u100	Discrimination continues to be prohibited. If I am cheating here in the Netherlands and I am no longer entitled to my assistance after that, nobody is wondering whether I am starving to death in that regard. Then we say: you simply have no right, you cheated, period. That's what's happening here. If you cheated, you can't say, "I have a house here. That was worth a ton. I have to pay back. Then I don't have that house anymore, supposedly, on paper, and we'll continue with the welfare." That's just not gonna happen. Fraud is fraud. "You requested it at the time you were not entitled to it and you didn't need it. It's called fraud."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u101	I understand the logic. I also understand that such a person must be punished. Only, what do you do with the situation after that, namely that that person has no income at all and could, so to speak, starve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u102	The situation that people no longer have the right to welfare is everywhere. Then we don't ask those questions either. So I say, "It's the same thing. Whether you live here or own in the Netherlands: if you have cheated, we simply cancel the benefit. And that's what we do there."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u103	I would like to ask you one more question. Mr Peters is very often standing up in debates in this house for people who are in danger of being evicted. The starting point of Mr Peters is that we should not evict people from their homes in the future. Suppose you have a rental house in the Netherlands and it turns out you've had foreign assets for years. If that comes up, you'll have a huge debt, because you'll have to pay back a lot of money, and there'll be a lot of fines. Then Mr Peters says: take the whole assistance away. Then where are these people supposed to live? And does Mr Peters think that these people should or should not be evicted from their rentals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u104	You connect two things with each other that are actually unconnected. Suppose I go to the municipality personally and say, "I need welfare." I'm gonna go there, but then I turn out to have power, just as an Ossenaar. Nowhere else do I own. I happened to have it in Berghem, a village next to it. That comes out, and then the welfare allowance is dropped. Then no one asks whether that is right or not. "You just don't have a right to it, because you cheated. You've lost it." It's that easy. You ask the question: do you think people should die of hunger? No, of course I don't think people should starve to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u105	In this case, the question was whether you think that people should be evicted from their rental homes. The problem is not that people suddenly find out that they have wrongly received benefits in the last two months. The problem may be that over a period of five or ten years people have been wrongly paid benefits. That could also be fraud. Of course it will have to be repaid. But the question is: If someone really doesn't have anything and gets into debt, then maybe he gets a little rent bonus. If I were that person, I'd buy food from it first. But if he does, he won't be able to pay the rent anymore. The question is whether or not he should be expelled from his home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u106	Now D66's making it very furious. Not only can fraud pay, but you may also, unlike all other people, remain in a home. That's way out of line. If you cheat, the welfare allowance will simply be withdrawn. Then you have no right to do so. You didn't need it. However, you applied for that benefit. You got it. Then you'll have to pay back. That's the same for everyone. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u107	Thanks for the answer. In any case, it is clear to me that Mr Peters' ambition to achieve zero removals in the Netherlands is not so absolute and that he wants an exception in such cases. Well, that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u108	Just one short response. If someone has committed a robbery and has to go to prison, then I do not say: you may continue to live in your house. So I'm going to make another exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u109	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u110	Mr. Chairman. This is not the first time we have debated aid fraud. It already came along in March 2011. In the meantime, we're eight years away. So you'd expect meters to be made. But it doesn't look like it. And that while it is clear: fraud is inadmissible, it must be traced and tackled, regardless of origin. The numbers don't lie. Against one in five Dutch people with a Turkish background there are suspicions of fraud, says De Telegraaf. In 2016 and 2017, it would be 17 million euros. This is mainly about secret property, which means that you will not be cut off on your benefit. That's just cheating, and that's unacceptable. But it gets weirder. Municipalities wishing to take action against this would be discriminated against. That sounds bizarre. Then you give a pass to fraudsters. I take it the Secretary of State doesn't accept this. Fraud must be dealt with without distinction. I'd like a response. In the broadcast of Newsuur on October 22 it gets even more colourful. We see a Turkish parliamentarians who wants to ban the Netherlands from investigating assistance fraud in Turkey. He was even gonna press charges. How's this report coming? What action have you taken against this? Can I assume that research can simply take place in Turkey? I'd like a response. Evidence of possession abroad may be difficult, but it must be done to maintain the support for our social security. I therefore ask the government what obstacles there are left. Because this kind of fraud simply needs to be traced. And of course you have to do everything to prevent the impression that Dutch people are being dealt with while Turkish Dutch people with foreign capabilities are going free. In fact, that would be discrimination. Do you recognize that? An important point is the conclusion of good social security agreements with other countries. I ask you to what extent this is happening and to what extent it is necessary to tighten up. How, for example, are we dealing with assistance fraud in Morocco? Finally. What is the overall extent of this assistance fraud? In response to my December parliamentary questions, you cannot say that, but we must have a complete picture. I'm considering a motion on this point. And finally, Mr President, something about the low point at the beginning of this debate. The schoolyard wasn't there. Mr De Graaf used violent words, but then he apologized, and that graces him. Mr Öztürk has made serious accusations against Mr De Graaf, without reference and without information. So I don't know what it was about, and I think it's very low. He might as well say something about that later. But the saddest thing is that the debate was screwed up for a video on Facebook, chairman. And the fact that I need to talk about it now isn't pretty either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u111	It's very good of you to say something about that. Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Finally, Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u112	Indeed, Mr President, there have been strong words in the debate on the interruption with Mr De Graaf. But words like "I'll chase you" and "you're mine" I haven't heard here before, and I've been a Member of Parliament for almost seven years. They're intimidating, threatening words, and a lot of MPs here also know they're threatened. These are also words that move other people to threaten MPs. Mr De Graaf has tried to rectify this in response to Mr Raemakers' justified comments. He took it back, but he didn't take it back to me. I think it is good to conclude this discussion by saying that Mr De Graaf is also taking these threatening and intimidating words back to me, so that we can conclude this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr De Graaf has done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u114	Not to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mr De Graaf has taken back his words, and it is a discussion between you and Mr De Graaf, so you have also said something. It would be a real honour for you to admit that you have made allegations without proof, and also to take back words. That's the only way we can move on. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr President, I am being addressed. I'll respond to it soberly. I did take my words back. And I think they've taken it back. Now the provocation of Mr Öztürk should not continue here, because that is what he is doing, for the next video. I'm not going to respond to that, but enough is enough. There is a limit to the provocations of DENK. Borders must be closed, but this border has also been reached. Stop it and show that you are an enrichment for the Netherlands, because I haven't seen it yet, never never from the whole fraction of DENK. Stop now. It is now clear for the Netherlands where you stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u117	Threatening people in the Chamber doesn't enrich you. The Netherlands knows that the PVV is not an enrichment. What I wanted to say is that we have spoken harsh words to each other. That's right. I like a fierce debate. Mr. De Graaf, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u118	But this is not a fierce debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u119	Today, in my opinion, he crossed the line. I think it is a good thing that we do not cross these lines, not even in terms of the security of all of us. I would like to say to Mr Van Dijk that I have had several discussions with Mr De Graaf on this subject. I also showed him what articles I appointed. I've always said "in confession." If you'd listened carefully, you'd know I didn't say you went to jail or went to prison. I said, "He's been compromised too." And that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u120	I said it wasn't nice what happened. Mr De Graaf has taken back his words, and that is a credit to him. Mr Öztürk has so far taken nothing back from what he has done. He has come here with suspicions without references, purely and simply to play the case and make a nice video of it for Facebook. I think this is low. I think this is a low way of debating things. It would adorn you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u121	You yourself have been working low and it would adorn you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u122	...if you were to say that what you're using now is not a level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u123	And it would be a good thing for you to stand up and say that we do not want this in our Dutch Parliament at the moment when a threat is being made to a colleague. You didn't. In your own contribution, you have only given to Turkish society. In my opinion, you have done very lately about a population group in your own contribution. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u124	Will you now make your contribution to this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u125	Can we get the time to four minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u126	Let's get started. I'll keep track. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Those who knowingly commit fraud must be dealt with in accordance with the rules we have agreed on. Fraud in benefits seriously affects solidarity in society. That is why my group is in favour of a decisive fight against fraud, without stigmatising groups, without bullying vulnerable elderly people and without malicious practices. Mr. Chairman. All parties speak loudly about combating assistance fraud, but what does that mean in practice? In particular, the migrant workers aged 70 or 80 are affected. Let me take an example. A man of 80 years old has a clay cottage in his village that is valued at about €20,000. He will be fined €200,000 for a house of €20,000. $200,000 fine! Then the D.A.'s gonna press charges and want this 80-year-old man in jail for at least six months. Six months! This is the curved outcome of the system. De Telegraaf makes a front page article, the PVV requests a debate, the VVD carries out the policy and the result is that an 80-year-old man has to go to jail for six months and has to pay back €200,000, because he has a clay house of €20,000. This is the policy we are pursuing here to bring the right-wing votes back in! Mr. Chairman. The guest workers speak of smell for thanks, also towards the SP. It's a nap. Nankörlük! I translate: this is the word for ingratitude. These people have been brought to the Netherlands. They arrived on Sundays and on Mondays they were already working. They've worked under terrible circumstances. They've built this country up, I've just said it with their blood, sweat and tears. The prosperity we now know, we owe it to them. I almost didn't get to hear about that. Only D66 and GroenLinks were quite reasonable about that. Mr. Chairman. These workers have worked here for most of their lives freely and underpaid in factories, slaughterhouses and cleaning, workers such as the 80-year-old man I have just mentioned. The Dutch Government has ensured that they have not received a full AOW. Can you imagine that? You are brought to the Netherlands to work when you are around 25 years old, you have an AOW-hole of 10% or 20%, you have to go to welfare, and what do you get? Afterwards, all kinds of fines. This is what the Dutch parliament... It's the government that bred it. We never wanted to close the AOW hole together. What do you get? That people should go to welfare and accept this kind of misery. For years parties have been praying for their voices, of those same migrant workers. That was the PvdA, unfortunately not present today. The CDA has also been getting votes from those same migrant workers for years, and now they're trying hard to deal with them. But the AOW-hole of these workers has never been solved, not by Social Democrats of the PvdA, nor by the CDA. These parties have let them down and are now, together with the SP, giving them a kick. This is the world upside down. That is why DENK has the following proposal. Resolve these groups from the capability test for assistance. My group wants us to be just as tough on the big fraudsters. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's explanation. Suppose a guest worker would ask the question: how do we deal with ING; why does the director of ING not go to jail, when they have allowed billions of fraud? The same applies to white-collar crime. What are we going to answer when the first generation asks those questions? What are we gonna say if Shell doesn't pay taxes? What are we gonna say? And I'm looking in the direction of the VVD when it comes to integrity violations? The VVD, the largest party, that holds the big story here about the hardworking Dutchman. What are we going to say to those hardworking workers who have built the Netherlands together day and night? And then there's the research offices. Those are offices, shady things which, with malicious practices, the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, knows in Turkey and Morocco, are getting information. It can't be. We cannot continue to pay these agencies, and we cannot ask our mayors to guarantee or give statements so that those agencies abroad can investigate our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u128	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u129	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. The final point. The title of this debate is Assistance fraud by Turkish Dutch. This sets out the stigma that Turkish Dutch people have a monopoly on the conduct of welfare fraud. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if any research has been carried out on the Dutch beneficiaries of assistance to the Spanish Riviera or in the South of France. I already know the answer: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u130	Go round up, Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u131	Does the Secretary of State realize that through her policy and the free play she gives to municipalities, she strengthens this stigma? This vote and the song against Turkish Dutch people when it comes to welfare recipients must stop immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u132	The point of my speech is that you have to deal with all fraud. Whether it's a banker or a worker, whether you're red, white, yellow or blue, deal with all fraud, don't discriminate. But does DENK really say that you should not tackle the fraud that might be committed by Turkish Dutch people by no longer applying the power test to them? Is that what you want? So just separate this group and justify discrimination? Everyone needs to be dealt with, except Turkish Dutch? What was your proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u133	You misunderstood me again. I gave the example of an 80-year-old man sitting in an AOW-hole, because we created that AOW-hole in the Netherlands and didn't poem it. Then he has to go to jail for a $20,000 clay house for six months. That group, that's what I'm talking about. For that group, I ask the Secretary of State for customization. I ask the Secretary of State to spare the group that has worked hard here for 30, 40 or 50 years. For this group, I ask the Secretary of State: do not let those people go to jail at the age of 80 for a house worth €20,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u134	Now the proposal is going to be a little bit different. Now you're asking for customization. You must be precise. Are you asking for an equal approach in equal cases, or are you saying: no, for one group you can make an exception; one group does not need to be treated so hard? 'Cause that's when you're gonna discriminate. That is what you accuse all these other parties of, and that would be extremely weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u135	What is happening now, in the investigation of welfare recipients, is discrimination. People with Turkish, Moroccan or other origins are investigated, but people of Dutch descent are not investigated. The VVD is avoiding that question, and so are you. If you do not want discrimination, you must agree with me that all beneficiaries of assistance, including Spain, Portugal and other countries, must be examined. Only then will we do our job well, but at the moment the researchers in Poland are not getting any money. Only the crooked researchers in Turkey or Morocco are paid by the municipalities. We need to get rid of that. We need to make sure that our agencies, our officials, do the investigations around the world and pick up all the fraudsters, not the crooked investigative offices. But against those kinds of cases like that 80-year-old man I used as an example, the Secretary of State must take action because they must be spared. They must receive the support of the Dutch government in a decent, dignified manner until the end of their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u136	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u137	Quite clearly, so that we understand it correctly: according to DENK, the 80-year-old man from the example that Mr Öztürk always gives, should or should not be dealt with on fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u138	If the SP wants to send that 80-year-old man to jail for a $20,000 clay house for six months, fine. Then I say, "Dear people, the SP wants to throw 80-year-old people with a $20,000 clay house in jail."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u139	Answer me. Just answer me!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u140	We do not; we would like to ask the Secretary of State to apply tailor-made measures so that such distressing cases do not cause people who are at the end of their lives to face prison sentences which make them even worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u141	And an 80-year-old Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u142	Same! That's why I say from the start...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u143	So everyone from 80 years has to be spared. What's the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u144	I told you that anyone receiving welfare benefits must be examined. At the moment there is discrimination, including by the municipalities. Research is only done on people with a Turkish origin, by malicious research agencies. You approve of all that. If we're going to investigate everyone and we're seeing poignant cases, then the Secretary of State must be able to help them, without looking at their origins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u145	I don't feel like screaming up and down here, but if DENK claims that no one is being checked in the Netherlands, except for people of Turkish origin, that's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u146	I think you should listen carefully again. I told him there were some crooked research agencies going to Turkey. They use means and ways that are not permitted by law. There are no research offices going to Spain or France to see if anyone of Dutch origin has real estate there. That is not happening, and you approve of it. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u147	Finally, Mr. Chairman. I have an investigation in my hands: Turkey, Morocco, Suriname, Hong Kong, Bosnia, Spain, Poland, Curaçao, Bulgaria, Serbia, Germany, Greece, Philippines, all countries being investigated. So it's bullshit, Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u148	France? Spain?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u149	I just read the list. It's not just Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u150	Don't mix it up. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u151	So it's wrong. It is not true that only Turkey is being investigated. All fraud you have to deal with, that's the point. You give the impression that in some cases you do not have to deal with fraud. That's very selective, what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u152	That's bullshit. Again, that's bullshit. What I am trying to tell you here is that research agencies are paid specifically to investigate Turkish Dutch people in Turkey. I say that does not happen in other countries. You have mentioned a number of countries, but Spain, France and Luxembourg were not among them. You should do your homework better and try to serve everyone in the Netherlands well. You should not just approve these kinds of scenes, which, in my opinion, is not good at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u153	This was the first term of office, with moments you can't be proud of. Mr Öztürk called it a fierce debate, but it was not. It was a debate that was sad at times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u154	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you, Mr President. It is about asset fraud in assistance and specifically abroad. I sent a letter to your Chamber on 28 June 2018 on how the investigation into asset fraud takes place abroad. There's detailed descriptions in there. Before I go into that, I would like to say that I think it is very important for the support of our social welfare system that only those who are entitled to it should receive these services. People should only fall back on welfare benefits if they themselves do not have sufficient resources to cover the necessary costs of living. This makes enforcement so extremely important; several Members of Parliament have referred to it. I also think it is important that people who make use of the facilities can do so with their heads held high, because they know that we are fighting abuse. Fraud must therefore be tackled hard. In doing so, we do not distinguish by nationality, because everyone has to comply with the obligations. I would also like to take this opportunity to support all those enforcers, for all those special investigators, the boas, the social detectives and the embassy staff who are investigating on the ground. I would like to thank them for their work. They should be proud of the work they do. It has also been said several times that enforcement of Dutch legislation abroad is generally more complex than in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, property ownership must also be checked abroad and assistance provided unjustly in the Netherlands must be recovered. Of course, this must be done within the framework of the laws and regulations in force. Municipalities and other implementing organisations do this, but run into bottlenecks. I think it is important that municipalities can carry out effective research and take action, because fraud should never be rewarding. That has also been underlined by the Chamber. Where necessary and where possible, I facilitate congregations. I am therefore working hard on the subjects I mentioned in my letter of 28 June. I would like to take the opportunity of this debate to report on its progress. I am working with the implementing organisations to examine the legal and implementation possibilities to improve enforcement and control of foreign resources. I would like to explain what solutions I am looking for and what steps have already been taken. My ministry is committed to increasing awareness of the IBF among municipalities and to improving cooperation between the IBF, the SVB and the municipalities. For this purpose, the Research Achterwijk Abroad, the OVB, was founded. The Ministry of SZW, IBF, SVB, municipalities, VNG, Divosa and the Professional Association for Customer Managers have joined forces to arrive at an effective approach. Together they have developed the hand-out for municipalities to which Mr Peters also referred. It is actually available online from this week on and describes in great detail what municipalities can and in some cases should do to prevent fraud, but also to combat fraud. A clear approach can prevent municipalities from violating the principle of non-discrimination by shaping the research in such a way that the test of the College of Appeal can be passed. The hand-out also describes how employees of municipalities can start property research, where they can go for the execution of the research and what the consequences are for established assets. Particular attention shall be paid to the prevention of breach of rules by welfare recipients. As your Chamber has also said, prevention is an important part of an effective approach. I sometimes say: the best prevention of fraud is good customer management, with a lot of contact with the customer and clear information to people about what to report when in the context of the intelligence obligation and other obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u156	I think it is very good that several parties have joined forces to arrive at a clear approach. Is there any possibility for civil servants to report to that point at the moment when they run into other bottlenecks in their work, so that we, say, remain a little up-to-date with the rules that are wringing? We can therefore react quickly each time, perhaps by adjusting rules, to prevent us from saying in a few years' time: that rule is pinching, but nobody really does anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yeah, that's definitely the point. And it happens. This hand-out, which I find very readable and highly commendable, really shows what you can do in the various stages of providing a benefit to prevent fraud. Issues that have already been identified are also dealt with. It also shows municipalities which questions you can ask, for example, and they may be, so that you can also be effective in them. If new bottlenecks emerge in this group, they will be on the agenda to resolve these bottlenecks again. That is why I am very pleased that, for example, Divosa and the association of customer managers are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u158	Through you, President, may I also ask the Secretary of State if she would like to actively bring this hand-out to the attention of the municipalities, for example through the city letter, which she sends several times a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u159	Oh, yeah. The planning of the debate was also a surprise for me. I was working hard to implement the measures. This is one of the measures contained in the June letter. The piece is now on the website and will be actively brought to the attention of all municipalities by the Association of Dutch Municipalities this week. I will also pay attention to it in the city news. In about a month, in March, a knowledge platform will also be launched, which will organise regional meetings, also to exchange knowledge with each other. Those are all moments to really draw attention to this by putting that searchlight on it and by learning from each other. It is indeed about keeping up-to-date current knowledge. I think it is important not only for municipalities to be able to carry out this research effectively, but also for municipalities to be able to take action subsequently. That is why I am currently examining, as indicated in the letter, the possibilities for a change of law in the Participation Act, which also reflects the feelings of the Chamber and the motion of Mr Wiersma and Mr Peters. In addition, together with the SVB, additional measures are being considered to facilitate seizure abroad, all in the context of "fraud should never pay." Mr. Chairman. Now specifically on research abroad. I shall be happy to deal with a number of specific questions from the Chamber later. In most countries, capital surveys are conducted without problems, but in some countries it is more complicated, according to practice. In Turkey research is mainly carried out through the consultation of public sources. Agreements have been reached with Morocco on the way in which property research is carried out on Moroccan territory and these agreements are laid down in the bilateral social security convention. In the middle of last year, Morocco's cooperation has come to a halt again because of the complicated bilateral relationship, as was the case in 2017. I am deeply concerned about the lack of cooperation of the Moroccan authorities in property investigations, which I find unacceptable. At present, the Moroccan authorities are urged, in all possible ways and at all levels, to ensure that all outstanding dossiers are provided with information and that the commitments made are fully implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u160	Something just came to mind. If a government does not want to cooperate in the provision of information, does the Secretary of State have the opportunity or has she thought about reversing the burden of proof in that case? If the government doesn't cooperate, you should not only actively report as a person that you own, but also prove that you don't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u161	I have indicated that I would like to repeat that at the moment we are looking at ways of making it easier to do what needs to be done in law, so that we can also seize the ability that exists. How can that power be detected? I would have liked to inform the Chamber about this around the summer, in accordance with the letter I sent last year in June and what we exchanged in the budget. So I can't do it right now. We're investigating several ways to do that. I cannot give an exclusive list of them in advance, but I would not like to exclude things in advance either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u162	So, let me get this straight: if, in the final analysis, it turns out that a government, a government, really does not want to cooperate in research, you do not exclude that in that case, however unfortunate, the burden of proof lies with the individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u163	Unfortunately, as much as I would like to anticipate the content of this discussion, it is too early. I intend to come forward with a proposal for consultation before the summer. But right now, it's really too early to say this. I can only say that I cannot exclude any measure which should make it simpler at this time, at this time, in order to exclude it at this time. But I can't give an exhaustive list yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u164	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mr. Chairman. Mr Peters asked me specifically what I would do to facilitate enforcement in countries such as Morocco, Germany and Spain. As I pointed out earlier, in most countries power surveys are conducted without problems. But it can certainly also be done where it runs smoothly, sometimes more efficiently. At the beginning of January this year, the SVB started a pilot to request permissions from entitled persons for research into assets abroad. If you have such an authorisation from a beneficial owner, you can have access to the register abroad. This pilot is currently in the exploratory phase and it will take some time before the results of this process are known. But also this is another action that has been turned off to see if we can make it easier. In addition, the revision of bilateral social security agreements will focus on making agreements on property investigations, in order to facilitate the conduct of the investigations. This is often sensitive, because countries naturally have their sovereignty, but such agreements have been made alongside Morocco, including with Egypt, Cape Verde and Ecuador.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u166	Is that pilot about Turkish, Moroccan and Surinamese Dutch? Or do you do that pilot with everyone, including people of Dutch descent? Are you also asking someone from the Netherlands who wants to participate in the pilot? Do you ask them whether they have real estate abroad, somewhere in Spain or France?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u167	We're putting the pilot on those countries where it's hard to get a foothold of the investigations. There are countries with good agreements to deal with. There is also a strong commitment to fraud, including by means of signals. I would like to take this opportunity to mention a few facts. In Mr Öztürk's contribution it was mentioned that people with a Dutch background would not be controlled. Far from it. In the Netherlands, if you apply for welfare benefits, you will be looking at your property situation. For this, all kinds of systems are linked together. So that's what we're looking at. That's less obvious than when you're going to do power research in a country where you can't do it at the push of a button. That's where the lake is visible. But under water, it also happens periodically when applying for a benefit. In addition, the fight against fraud and investigations are carried out on the basis of signals. It does not look at the background, but it looks at whether someone has a benefit and whether there are signs of fraud. Then we go after it, because fraud must never be rewarding. Any fraud committed by anyone must be investigated. And where there is fraud, the amount of assistance must be repaid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u168	My point is that, for example, in a municipality like Venlo, all Turkish Dutch people were investigated categorically in Turkey, without any signals. Let's say you have 1,000 beneficiaries of Turkish income in Venlo. Then there will be a rogue investigative agency that does all kinds of practices in Turkey. The Dutch municipalities pay for these offices. And then all 1,000 people are investigated, whether there are signals or not. My point is: do you, categorically, do you, for persons of different origin? Your partymate didn't answer that question. That is my question: are you also working with Dutch people who have real estate in Spain, France or other countries, to say categorically "I'm going to check with all Dutch people in The Hague to see if they have real estate in Spain"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u169	I hear Mr Öztürk giving descriptions of a number of research offices with which municipalities work. I believe that municipalities can, of course, cooperate with the IBF and the Social Insurance Bank; they are not forced to work with these organisations, but can see for themselves which agencies they want to work with. Of course, offices that municipalities work with must comply with the law. I'd say all the agencies have to comply with the law. It has also been found that where there are appeals and appeals, the use of agencies other than the IBF and the Social Insurance Bank is permitted if it is done properly. If, therefore, there were research offices, I would certainly not link the term'malafide' with dossiers dealt with, for example, by the Central Board of Appeal. Then there was the specific question: are Dutch people also being investigated on the basis of, for example, assets in France or Spain? The answer to that is yes. We do not distinguish people in their backgrounds. We'll see if they have any assets abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u170	Here it comes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u171	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u172	Here it comes. Look, the Secretary of State is pushing a bit into a corner what we are doing in the Netherlands: only use research offices in the Turkish and Moroccan Netherlands to conduct categorical research in Morocco or to see if, for example, all those thousand people in Venlo have committed fraud, whether there are signals or not. We do not do that when it comes to other origins in other countries. That's exactly the question you're avoiding. When you investigate a thousand Hagenese in all kinds of countries, you could also get a lot of benefit fraudsters with possession. You won't. You only do it with Turkish Dutch and Moroccan Dutch and therefore that is hunting Turkish Dutch and Moroccan Dutch. I would like to say: do it all or do not do it. That's preventing discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u173	If you apply for welfare benefits, it is important that you be honest about the facts regarding your personal situation, as well as being honest about the facts that play a role in a debate in the House of Representatives. In that respect, I am laying down the facts here. They're checking to see if people have power. It's done without regard for the person. Signals are used to look at situations where there may be fraud. If that's the case, research is being done. In countries we have agreements with, this often happens via information systems or through people at the embassy. In countries where we have no agreements, this should be more visible, more tangible with on-the-spot capital surveys. So that's a little less in the underwater screen and a little more tangible. I would like to avoid having this debate on the basis of inadequate facts or assumptions. I would therefore like to emphasise to Mr Öztürk that the assumptions he is making in this debate are not supported by the facts that I have brought to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u174	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u175	There have been several trials and several lawyers have rightly won those trials, but the Secretary of State would like to avoid my question. The Secretary of State says that we examine every beneficiary where we get signals. Then I will give an example of a thousand people of Turkish origin in Venlo who are categorically investigated when there are no signals. I ask the Secretary of State once again to try to answer my question quite honestly. Are you also prepared to have all beneficiaries examined by research offices in other countries, so that you give equal opportunities and equal treatment to all beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try another way to bring some more facts into the debate. In 2016 and 2017, 2110 and 1919 IBF assignments were carried out for municipalities and other implementation organisations. These are the following countries: Armenia, Belgium, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Curaçao, Dominican Republic, Germany, Egypt, England, Philippines, Greece, Hungary, India, Italy, Kosovo, Morocco, Ukraine, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Suriname, Thailand, Turkey and South Africa. I would also like to make this statement in the debate that we do not categorically examine people with Turkish backgrounds about property ownership. If there are signs of property ownership in Turkey, we will investigate it. And if people have cheated, then we will address them and recover the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u177	Do you miss a country, Mr. Jasper van Dijk? Costa Rica, maybe? I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u178	No, I don't miss a country. I just mentioned the list myself. It is quite clear that this is not just about Turkey. Mr. Öztürk wondered why France was not in line. Maybe we'll find out. I have another question. The Secretary of State says that most countries are doing well if you want to do research there. Of course, it's about possession abroad. Most countries are doing well, some countries are not doing so well, for example Morocco. Can the Secretary of State tell us why it is not doing so well with a country such as Morocco and what it is doing in order to be able to carry out that investigation there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u179	In any case, the observation is that this has stopped. This means that, at present, all possible levels with all possible relations are fully committed to bringing that back. I cannot say more about this at the moment than that, but I think it is very important that we give full substance to the commitments made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u180	Totally once, but I was wondering, what happens then? I think it's interesting for us as a room to know that. You're going to talk to the Moroccan authorities. They say: we do not give that information and we do not allow you to carry out investigations. Then what's your counterattack? Of course, it is not good if a country simply says "we are not starting to do so" and thus can hide this property abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u181	That's right. That's why it feels so unfair. I think I feel the same way about that as the Chamber. On the other hand, it is also the case that it is very difficult, of course, to get caught up in a public debate. That is why I will now have to say that we urge the Moroccan authorities to resume this process at all possible levels in all possible ways. That's what I can say about it right now. As soon as I can say more about that, I would be happy to share it with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u182	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr Peters asked about the image that people with possessions abroad would fraud more easily than people with possessions in the Netherlands. He asked if there was a correlation with the possibility of control. I have already indicated in the introduction that it is more complex to enforce Dutch legislation abroad than in the Netherlands. That has to do with it, in particular. It is perhaps a good thing to highlight that in other countries there are not always reliable basic registrations, that the exchange of information with local authorities is not always possible, that the cooperation of the local authorities, but as I have just said, also the national authorities is not always self-evident and that research on the ground is often time-consuming. These are not considerations for me that we should accept, but these are considerations that play a role in the search for solutions, for example in the Wiersma/Peters motion, which I referred to in the letter of 28 June last year: how can we offer a solution to this, so that we can achieve this? Mr Raemakers asked about the public sources in Turkey. He asked if that was enough. I can say that in many cases it is sufficient to get a real suspicion of fraud, but then we will need some specific data from beneficiaries. In 60% to 70% of cases, we can find a registration through public sources. If you have an address indication at some point, you can do a neighborhood search. Well, that could help. In addition, we are now working in Turkey with permissions to access the land register in Turkey. Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of issues that have been asked about measures that municipalities can take following the adoption of assistance fraud. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan asked what possibilities municipalities already have, whether they are working, whether they are maintaining enough and which handles they already have. We must, even though it is difficult, check for assets abroad, and unjustly provided assistance in the Netherlands must be recovered. Municipalities and other implementing organisations are doing the same at the moment, but it can always be better. The implementation of the Participation Act is, of course, decentralised and thus there really is an explicit competence and also responsibility of the local administration to give proper implementation to the enforcement of the obligations. Recent case law There have already been some statements by the Central Board of Appeal cited....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I therefore consider it important that I facilitate municipalities where possible and where necessary in order to do so. Municipalities can use the International Bureau of Fraud Information from the UWV. These investigations are initiated by the IBF at the SVB in the countries where the SVB is represented through a Social Affairs Office. I think it is very important to increase awareness of the IBF in municipalities. We have just had an interrupting debate on this in order to improve this cooperation. That is why I also think it is important to bring to the attention of municipalities the hand-out as I have mentioned, and also to promote the active implementation of the obligations set out in the Participation Act, both at the first interview with clients applying for welfare benefits and in the investigations. That is why we are organising regional meetings for municipalities this year. Finally, I am also looking together with municipalities at the legal implementation possibilities to improve enforcement and control of foreign resources. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan also asked about the motion. That is actually an exception to this question. I am currently examining the possibility of amending the Participation Act. I hope that I have also indicated that I will be able to fill that in around the summer. As far as I am concerned, this is substantial in order to ensure that municipalities are given these handles. We are also looking with the SVB at additional measures to facilitate seizure abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u184	I'd like to go back to the previous point, if you don't mind. You're going to point out to municipalities that the IBF can support them. I think it is also important that matters are examined as quickly as possible and that it is as short as possible. Does the IBF have sufficient capacity to investigate matters that local authorities are proposing, if there is a sudden rise in requests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u185	At the moment, I have no signals that there is a shortage of commitment. If that were to happen, for example, if waiting lists were to arise, I would be proactive in picking up these signals, because that cannot be an argument, as far as I am concerned, for not carrying out investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u186	I actually have a question at the same point. A number of municipalities say they are actually dissatisfied with the IBF, because it all takes far too long or because they actually get too little information from them. Then municipalities choose other parties to do research for them. Earlier this evening, the Secretary of State said that it is up to municipalities to choose. As I have just seen, the reference to the IBF is very explicit in the hand-out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say: that is simply the route and rather not involve other parties, dear municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u187	I find it difficult to give a moral judgment on this, because municipalities are free. There's no forced shopping, so to speak, at the IBF. Of course, the IBF and the SVB are the public partners who also have a public foot in the country where the research takes place. On the other hand, there are also municipalities that have really positive experiences with private organisations, but it seems to me that it should be considered by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u188	Maybe another addition to that. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that if municipalities follow this hand-out, all parties will work together and that is promising, and that if they do, it will ultimately lead to them acting purely administratively? It is now the case that the Centrale Raad van Beroep gemeenten can afterwards whistle back as a lawyer has successfully filed an appeal. Isn't it true that administrative law is just right when that hand-out is being followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u189	That has been the approach to the drafting of this document. There are municipalities that have invested a great deal of time and energy in detecting and combating asset fraud and that have been flogged back, because they had made certain considerations play a role. This hand-out is really meant to follow the proper procedure carefully, in accordance with all the agreements we have internationally, but with regard to where we get the signals from. If, at some point, it turns out that things are getting worse again, then I shall return to the questions that Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan has also asked. If we are to have problems again, the document must be amended. Mr. Chairman. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked about the number of infringements of the duty of information on assistance fraud. In 2017, there were 11,250 breaches of the intelligence obligation with an amount of disadvantage in respect of which a fine was imposed. From 2018 I have the figures for the first three quarters. In the first quarter they were 2,900 infringements, in the second quarter 2,730 and in the third quarter 2,770. In the annual report SZW I reported up to 2017 on the number of breaches of the intelligence obligation. From 2017 onwards, the possibility of giving a warning has also been extended. That's why we're going to start reviewing the numbers. If the Chamber has more questions about exact numbers of violations or the number of warnings, then I would ask you to wait until we have had the debate on the re-evaluation of the numbers. Then I may be able to inform the Court of Justice of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u190	Do I understand correctly that these are the offences of intelligence in general and not so much about possession abroad? I asked for this in my written questions and the Secretary of State replied that she could not give that overview, because it is up to the municipalities. I think it would be a good idea to have a national image of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u191	Yeah, that's right. I recognize this in Mrs Van Brenn's questions. It's a wish we have. Especially when we talk about this kind of thing, we would like to have that overview. At the same time, we see that this happens if you decentralise and if enforcement and detection are also decentralised. The Minister has indicated that he is going to send an alert letter. We also involve the municipalities. I would also like to mention this in reply to Mrs Van Brenn. In order to provide some context for the enthusiasm, I would add that there are at first a dozen municipalities involved. So we will not have an immediate picture of all the municipalities at the first alert letter. That letter comes in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u192	June of this year, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u193	Yes, June 2019. Mr Raemakers also dived into a number of studies by Divosa and said that it is often also about undue payments. He said: it is 54% of the cases; can it be reduced? I think that it is very important that municipalities are working hard to improve the exchange of data, because it is of course crucial when talking about this type of percentage. Municipalities are working very hard on this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u194	I have heard the Secretary of State elaborate a great deal about detecting and punishing fraud. But it's actually very simple. We should avoid fraud, because prevention is always better than cure. I understand that the Secretary of State says that it is a local authority and that municipalities themselves are responsible for it, but in other areas it is much more concrete what the Secretary of State is doing to help the municipalities. So could the Secretary of State be a little more detailed about how she could help municipalities to prevent fraud at the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u195	In my introduction, I said that this stands or falls with good customer management. I would like to bring to your attention the hand-out, because it shows very specifically what questions you can ask, for example, at the first contact with someone who comes to apply for assistance, to make someone aware of what is meant, for example, by power and what you are obliged to report to the municipality. It is also important to maintain that contact accurately and regularly. And if someone goes to the same address regularly, it's important to zoom in and say, "Where are you going?" So there are a lot of opportunities to prevent fraud from being committed at an early stage in a good relationship, although of course you can never prevent it from happening in all situations. Then you must have a firm approach. But the good thing is that in that hand-out a good balance has been found between prevention, prevention on the one hand, and what you can do if you have detected fraud on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u196	That sounds really good. I've heard the Secretary of State say a few times that she's coming up with a number of cases before the summer. So can the Secretary of State undertake to develop clear tools in the field of summer prevention, perhaps with the help of the Ministry, so that these municipalities can actually work with them? Here's what I'm going to add. Does the Secretary of State therefore agree that we are not doing this right at the moment, and we are also sometimes accusing people of fraud, when those people were not well informed because they were illiterate and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u197	It takes me too far now to say in general terms that things are not going well. 'Cause I was just trying to lance for all those customer managers, social detectives, people at the embassy, who are doing this. What I really like about this hand-picking exercise is that not only Divosa, the directors of the social service, but also the Professional Association for Customer Managers is a participant: the municipality of Utrecht, the municipality of Rotterdam. A connoisseur of this policy area knows that you have combined some exponents of the spectrum. If these parties are able to find each other in this hand-out and thus create a balanced package, then my suggestion would be: let's let that mature for a while. If we come to the conclusion that things are not right, either on the repressive side or on the preventive side, then you will find me at your side to follow up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u198	Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, I will give you the floor in a moment. I was very curious to see how far the Secretary of State is about answering the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u199	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u200	Okay. Mrs. Nijkerken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u201	Back to what the Secretary of State said. If municipalities have the signal that people travel a lot to the same address, it implies that municipalities know that people travel a lot to the same address. With every average employer, in order to be able to go on vacation or otherwise be absent for a day, I would apply for a decent leave of absence. People on welfare, when they travel abroad, I think they just have a duty to report it to the municipality. Does the Secretary of State have an idea as to whether this obligation to notify is actually being implemented and enforced? Especially if it's going to the same address every time, you can identify a trend early.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u202	It is a right point that Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan points out. You can go on vacation a few times if you're on welfare. But you have to report that in advance, because you are supposed to be available for the labour market. If you go on holiday once a year to the same address abroad, that can indeed be the subject of that conversation. I don't have an overview here on the spot or municipalities stick to it. I assume so, because if municipalities don't comply with the law, then we have a wink in the House of Representatives. I will see if I can bring that up for the second term, or else I can come back with it at a later date. In view of the hand-out, which lies here, this is an excellent subject for municipalities to say: that is one of the topics of discussion that you can talk about in the preventive sense or indeed because it is a signal to detect fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u203	Another little addition. If you do have that conversation, the municipality can also ask the simple question: "And what do you need to get back to work so you can get out of welfare?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u204	I assume that this question is asked at every conversation people have. In his introduction, Mr Raemakers pointed out that a number of dilemmas play a role in the provision of handles to municipalities, including with legal adjustments, in accordance with the Wiersma/Peters motion, when it comes to people in debt. I can indeed say that these dilemmas certainly also play a role in the drafting of the legislative proposal. So I'm sure I'll take those dilemmas with me. I do think it is important to do justice to what the Wiersma/Peters motion asks me to do. That is also a wish of municipalities. They're really struggling with the fact that at some point people are just checking in for welfare benefits. But as requested, I will give these dilemmas a place in the outcome. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have already been answered in interrupting debates. Mr Renkema asked if I would ask for advice from the College of Human Rights. The Central Board of Appeal has really set out a number of very clear frameworks within which those asset investigations can take place. He has also said a number of times that it cannot be done that way. That is why a framework has been set. Those frameworks have now been translated into this hand-out for municipalities. I would actually like to say to you what I also said to Mr Raemakers: let us now put this hand-out into practice, so that we can see if we have any further steps to take. Then Mr Renkema also asked what criteria I found relevant in order to be able to carry out research. I think we can find each other very well on this point. In Mr Renkema's speech, I also recognised many aspects which I personally consider important in what we agreed on. For example, in the various statements made by the Central Board of Appeal in these cases, municipalities are allowed to examine without specific cause whether people are rightly given full assistance. Municipalities do not need to apply this preventive fraud investigation to all recipients of assistance and not in the same way. This also has to do with the costs of such investigations and the importance of preventing fraud. Municipalities are therefore allowed to use so-called risk profiles, such as people's behaviour. A risk profile may be based on the criterion of a country of origin other than the Netherlands. But as the municipality of Rotterdam does, it is also a very nice way to work with criteria that can deliver signals. I recognized this in Mr Renkema's contribution. Municipalities may ask for the foreign identification number. In that case, recipients of assistance are also obliged to provide this. Research into welfare recipients of only one nationality should not be allowed, as this is contrary to the prohibition of discrimination. Other evidence may be used. New research may also be carried out to demonstrate whether foreign income or wealth has been concealed. In the event of recovery, municipalities must recover aid wrongly received if it is a result of the breach of the obligation to provide information. In the case of other grounds of origin, if it is not culpable, municipalities can recover the aid. Mr. Chairman. As far as I know, this brings me to the end of the questions that have been asked. Otherwise, I'd like to hear about your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u205	I don't think one question has yet been answered. That question has been asked by several Members. That's why I'm a little surprised. The question was very specific that the deduction of the amount of assistance recovery and administrative fine of the foreign assets identified should never lead to the right to assistance. Can the Secretary of State still answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u206	That was also the subject of the Wiersma/Peters motion. I always like to debate assistance; you know that. But I indicated in the June letter that I was going to take a number of steps. That's when I got the motion. In that sense, this debate also comes as a bit of a surprise to me. I'm working on implementing this motion by the summer. Here comes Mrs Van Brenk's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u207	That's right. You did say that at the beginning. Mr Öztürk, did one more question remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u208	Yes, a very important one. I told you about the situation of an 80-year-old man. I had asked the Secretary of State if she was prepared to provide tailor-made services, so that people of old age with language disadvantages, but also with procedural disadvantages, would not end up going to jail. That's why I wanted to hear from the Secretary of State what she's going to do to deliver customization for really poignant cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u209	Just now, in reply to Mr Renkema, I indicated that, if there is a violation of the obligation to provide information, municipalities should recover the wrongly paid assistance. That's what the law says. I cannot go into individual cases, but that may also be the reason why the value of the assets is lower than the amount to be recovered. The fact that there is an infringement of the obligation to provide information means that the municipality will recover this amount of assistance received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u210	That's not an answer. I would ask you, in distressing cases, as a minister, to ask municipalities whether they would like to approach these people in another way to prevent a six-month prison sentence at the age of 80 for a lump house of €20,000. I see that the Secretary of State is avoiding the question and is more or less willing to leave these people in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u211	The most important measure to avoid such punishment is to ensure that you provide the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u212	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u213	That's not an answer. We all know that, Secretary of State. If you look at the fraud in the Netherlands, benefit fraud is the smallest. If you look at the fraud of white-collar criminals, if you look at the fraud at ING, but also at other cases, that is different. ING has a billion-dollar fraud. Then they pay a few hundred million euros of damage and you approve it as a cabinet. Right now, I'm asking your coulance, your humanity, your dignity towards someone who's 80 years old. He's going to jail for six months for a $20,000 clay house. Then you do a Dijkhoffje: "Yes, so?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u214	I just indicated that the best way to avoid punishment is not to commit an act leading to that punishment. That goes for everyone in the Netherlands, wherever you come from and whatever arrangement you are in. In the case of assistance, the infringement of the obligation to provide information leads to recovery of the assistance. This can therefore lead to a situation where the amount someone has to repay is higher than the amount of the hidden assets. So the best remedy for this is not to hide the amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone who walks over him will then be used as a foot sweep at some point. That's what happens when you're a society. That is what we see in these cases of fraud, also in the numbers that have been reported in the newspapers in advance. The social detectives have listed numbers of fraudsters and potential fraudsters. We're being run over. We're gonna lose our money, and it's gonna go in the wrong pockets. As far as PVV is concerned, we must be able to recover this money in all cases of fraud. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch taxpayers are forced to contribute to unfairly paid benefits;]] [[Whereas this discrimination against Dutch taxpayers should cease;]] [[calls on the Government to end this discrimination by punishing all assistance fraud through property possession abroad with withdrawal of the benefit and reimbursement of unduly received benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that benefit fraudsters can and will never receive benefits again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-570]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u217	Mr President, my second motion. That's gonna work out in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents of another nationality are discriminated against by the CRvB's ruling in the detection of benefit fraud;]] [[Whereas this discrimination against Dutch taxpayers should cease;]] [[calls on the government to allow municipalities to prioritize the detection of benefit fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-571]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u218	Thank you. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. I see a Secretary of State who is working very actively and diligently with this dossier. I am glad, because the discussion has been going on for far too long. I am also pleased that she has an eye and an ear for the problems that local authorities face in practice. I am also pleased that you are talking about a document that is alive and that can be supplemented by municipalities over and over again when there is something in practice that they are running into. I think we're taking a good step in that direction. I particularly look forward with great interest to her legislative amendment on the debt rule, which I hope and understand, perhaps you can confirm in the second term that we may be able to receive it somewhere around or shortly after the summer. Because fraud is fraud, and fraud should never pay off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you. Then I'm going to... Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, Mr Öztürk has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u221	It is right that fraud should not pay off. I have a graph here about fraud in the Netherlands, per million. We see that welfare fraud is the smallest fraud. With other frauds, such as tax fraud, money laundering, bankruptcy fraud, corporate fraud and care fraud, you're talking about quite heavy billions. In the case of fraud committed at ING and in the case of white-collar fraud, I do not see the VVD as strong and not as hard as in the case of benefit fraud. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u222	For the VVD, any fraud is fraud, whether it's welfare fraud, or care fraud, or white-collar fraud. You can list the whole list, but fraud is fraud. That must not be paid; it must be dealt with. We are talking here tonight specifically about foreign-property assistance fraud. I'd like to stick with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u223	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u224	When I look at how much effort the VVD is making with its Secretary of State to supposedly put people of Turkish and Moroccan origin here as a fraud and how much effort it is making when it comes to the fraudsters at ING, the billion-dollar fraud in which no one has to go to jail, I ask the VVD once again: are you prepared to ask the Secretary of State not to go to jail at the age of 80, in the distressing case of that 80-year-old man, are you prepared to ask the Secretary of State to do tailor-made work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u225	Mr Öztürk is here all evening trying to put down the frame that we are only looking at fraud by Turkish Dutch. I'm throwing that far from me. 'Cause we've got it wide... Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u226	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u227	Madam President, through you to Mr Öztürk, we are talking about fraud in general. Again, I don't care where anyone comes from. Fraud is fraud. The moment you have possession, you have to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u228	Thank you. I am going to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u229	Thank you, Mr President. In my first term, I referred to three issues: preventing assistance fraud, but also punishing and detecting it. I have noticed, listening to the answer from the Secretary of State, that she is very busy punishing and detecting fraud. I understand that, because I think that both should really be done. But D66 is particularly concerned with prevention. I also understand why the Secretary of State says that there is a hand-out, which parties are doing well now. But I do see a discrepancy: in many areas we say that municipalities should do it themselves because they are decentralised, but in punishing and tracking, the government must be very helpful. So I see a bit of a discrepancy there, of which I say: decentralisation is also working both ways. I want to be the first to say that. Then the second. The Secretary of State comes up with a bill to delete the rule "capital is property minus debt" in the case of welfare benefits. The Secretary of State has also indicated that she is taking the dilemmas around people who can get into very high debts. My group believes that this is very important. We are not just in favour of that bill, so we are very curious to see how real justice can be done to these dilemmas. We'll make up our minds afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u230	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have any motions. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I'm glad we've got that hand-out for the power survey. I think it's very important for municipalities to know what they can do in front of them and how to organise the investigation. I also very much hope that municipalities will organise their work on this issue in such a way that the results can pass the test in the courts of the administration, and that it should not be found afterwards that assistance wrongly obtained cannot be recovered for this reason. I am also glad that she says that this is a dynamic document that is being developed, and not something we say: this is the way it should be. Finally, on risk profiles. I think we can find each other at that point, too. I would like to add that it is always important for us what the relevant elements of a risk profile are. That should be more about behavior that leads to suspicions than about nationality or ethnic background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u232	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment of the alert letter that will be sent to the Chamber in June. 50PLUS considers it very important that this information should reach us. During the debate, I was sorry, Mr President-in-Office, to have scanned the hand-out on research into hidden income and wealth abroad. It's a nice document. That includes France and Spain, so we know where to find them, I'll say. I had one more point. I cannot escape the impression that, in the case of an application for assistance, we ask, ask and check whether there is power, that we do so with each application and that we do not then check the nationality of a person. I assume that we will check with everyone who makes an application, and I assume that the Secretary of State will confirm that later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's actually simple: we maintain it with everyone, even if it's just as difficult because in the country where we think there might be power, that power cannot be brought up at the push of a button. Mr. Chairman. What if a country really doesn't want to cooperate? I have just heard from the Secretary of State's replies that sometimes that is the case. I understand that the Secretary of State does not anticipate what she is going to do with it, but I will nevertheless give her the opportunity to consider whether reverse evidence is simply possible. If the government doesn't want to cooperate, maybe the individual will have to do it. Mr. Chairman. The law is clear. Really everyone should be able to be investigated, wherever he comes from or wherever he might have possession at the moment. I therefore really object to this, as I have just done, because I find it really annoying against the suggestion that only Moroccan or Turkish people are being viewed on property abroad. That is simply not true, and I find it really damaging and almost disruptive that it continues to be claimed here. That is therefore a point of order. Finally, Mr President. Fraud can't pay off. Subtract debt and wealth and then almost laughing to keep the welfare, that's just not right. Fortunately, the Secretary of State is going to do something about that. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitments and thank the President for chairing. I think a cup of tea will probably go in afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u236	Thank you, Mr. Peters. Then... Where are you going, Mr Öztürk? I call Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP. It's going well tonight, my goodness. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u237	It's going well tonight. But France is also being investigated, I would like to say. Mr. Chairman. I asked a question. What is the situation with regard to the declaration made by a Turkish parliamentarians to prohibit the Netherlands from carrying out research in Turkey? I'd like a response. Mr President, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas assistance fraud is detrimental to social security support;]] [[considers that a successful approach requires a clear picture of the overall fraud;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide an overview of the overall volume of assistance fraud resulting from concealed possession abroad;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u239	Mr. Chairman. I have asked the Secretary of State once again to deliver customary work in the case of the 80-year-old man and to see if we can't get this person into prison for six months. But then I get an answer as Mr Dijkhoff does: yes, so, go to jail. I'm looking at ING. That's where billions of dollars have been cheated. Billions, Chairman! And what happens? The D.A.'s gonna agree to a few hundred million euros. Then the money is sent from the bank to the D.A.'s office and then nobody goes to jail. This is the reality in which we are in the Netherlands. Mr President, in order to avoid all this, I have prepared a number of motions which I would like to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the event of an alleged amount of fraud above €50,000, administrative bodies are obliged to report to the Public Prosecutor's Office of their own motion and to prosecute in full;]] [[Considers that the Public Prosecutor's Office should decide, in this case, whether or not to prosecute matters relating to the property test itself and should explicitly take into account the particular position of the citizen, his age, medical condition and the fact that it is a so-called "first offender";]] [[calls on the Government to give the Public Prosecutor the opportunity to apply custom-made measures in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-573]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u240	I still have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u241	No, you have a minute and twenty seconds, just like everyone else. I'm sorry. During the first period, you also exceeded your speaking time. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u242	But it's a motion. Shall I then pronounce the "confirming"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u243	No, you will be submitting that motion to another debate. Thank you. This was the second term. No, Mr. Öztürk, it really can't be. Everyone keeps to their speaking time. That goes for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u244	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u245	Thank you, Mr President. I had a few questions open or comments which I will provide with a brief reflection. After that, I'll give the motions an appreciation. Mrs. Van Brenk asked if there was standard demand for power, regardless of the background of someone. The answer to that is yes. I was in agreement with Mr Renkema............................................................................................................................................................................................. I could not agree more with 99% of his speech. Yes, that was the advice of the College of Human Rights, but there is something really beautiful now. But I couldn't agree more. Mr Raemakers pointed out that decentralisation is working in two directions. That's a fair point. We are talking about prevention and repression in the fight against fraud. Now it is true that this hand-out is there specifically in response to the questions of municipalities. It's also from municipalities themselves. We didn't make it for congregations. It is made up of municipalities, municipalities and municipalities. We also facilitated them and called in organisations. In this respect, it is also a good way of working for the future. In the direction of Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, I would like to point out that I am trying to consult this law on the Internet before the summer so that I can send it to the Chamber after the summer in the autumn. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked about the state of play of the Turkish parliamentarians who appeared in Nieuwsuur. As I would like Turkish parliamentarians not to comment on the Netherlands, so I will abstain from commenting on Turkish parliamentarians. So I can't answer that, and I don't know what came out of that either. In any case, we are continuing to check for hidden power. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. Mr De Graaf's motion for a resolution 570 calls on the Government to ensure that benefit fraudsters can and will never receive a benefit again. This motion is in breach of the Fraud Act and I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 571 asks the government to allow municipalities to prioritize the detection of benefit fraud. Of course, there is policy freedom for municipalities. They must do so within the framework of national and international laws and regulations. That's why I advise against this motion. If Mr Jasper van Dijk with the motion in part No. 572 means that he would like an overview of the alleged assistance fraud, I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u246	Of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u247	That's good, Mr. Chairman. Mr Öztürk's motion on item No. 573 I advise, because I think the current law is a good law. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u248	Mr Öztürk, on the last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u249	You may find the current law to be a good law, but I have asked if you are prepared to ask the prosecution to take the measures you do not want to take, and in some cases not to put people in jail and punish them in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u250	I do not intend to advise the public prosecutor on the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u252	We will vote on the motions tabled next week. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament. In part, this debate was not really uplifting. To the people who followed this, I would say apology for that.
