ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we will continue to the VAO on the Annual Report on the Management of State Participations 2017. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party has the floor as the first speaker. Mr. Nijboer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, who is responsible for ensuring the financial stability of the financial system in the Netherlands, warns against asking for too high returns on bank shares, then you should take that very seriously. All shareholders must take this into account, including the State which is necessarily a shareholder of a number of banks here in the Netherlands. We discussed this during the general discussion and the Minister and I did not come to an agreement, so I would like to call on the Minister to do so by means of this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the President of De Nederlandsche Bank has warned against the risks associated with high requirements for returns on equity;]] [[Whereas the yield requirements of banks are constantly increasing, as are the pay-out rates for dividends;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to commit itself as shareholder to more moderate yield requirements and pay-out ratios of banks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-301]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. In practice, this motion mainly concerns ABN AMRO's shares, as the Volksbank already has moderate return requirements. It really matters. It really matters for the behavior of bankers and the choices they make when you set sky high return requirements. ABN is building them up, and I really think that the Minister should use his position as shareholder to counter that and listen to the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Van der Linde of the VVD will be the next speaker. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. A little over ten years ago, the then PvdA Minister of Finance spent about 30 billion to save two half banks and one and a half insurers, half without the prior authorisation of this Parliament, the other half later to keep things going. That was necessary at the time, and I had great admiration for that minister. But it was as much as 30 billion that we could have spent on a well-equipped police, loving care in nursing homes or just on less taxes. It is not for nothing that the same PvdA Minister promised us that the 30 billion would be paid back as much as possible. You do this by making ABN AMRO a good, solid bank with good profits, so that you can sell that bank again for good money. I find it annoying that the same PvdA now says with some ease: ABN AMRO, do not make too much profit; we prefer to throw taxpayers' money out the window! It will be clear to you that the VVD will not support such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	It's election time, I think! I have already tabled such motions with Mr Koolmees on several occasions, because we are concerned about them only for profit from banks. It is not for nothing that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank is concerned about this. He does not do that from a party membership or a left-wing view of society. You can easily put that away if "the PvdA wants that bank to be worth nothing, because it has to be an unhealthy bank," but that is not the case at all. I don't want excessive risks to be taken. And that's a big risk, as we've seen lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Nijboer is an economist. As an economist, he knows you can't steer the line at the bottom. You can direct on demands to companies. You can make demands on the solidity of banks. You can make demands on money laundering policy, or impose certain requirements on products. But what is it to say at the end of the ride: don't make too much profit? You can't send for that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's what I'm getting sent for. Pay-out ratios, dividend ratios and equity-to-equity ratios are simply given to the stock exchange as targets. At first, they were between 8% and 10%, and now between 10% and 13%. That's what they're sending. Those targets need to be met. If you put it in the buffer and in more equity and pay less, you have a lower return. I am very much in favour of that, just like the whole of science in the Netherlands and the world, when you look at how the banks stand. In this case, that's a political choice, because you have shares of your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	That is where Mr Nijboer hits a key point, as far as I am concerned. You can't fill those buffers if you don't make a profit. So if you and you want to make your money back and fill those buffers, you just need good profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Alkaya also has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is a question of understanding the position of the VVD. That profit is needed to fill the buffers and meet the return requirements, I understand. But the VVD also says that we should not throw away taxpayers' tax money. If a smaller proportion of the profits is distributed to the shareholders, wouldn't it also be the case that the bank has more room to give back, for example, through the savings rate, in addition to the capital buffers being able to increase and that money laundering controls can also be better organised? Then the money wasn't thrown away, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	We very much agree on the importance of money laundering controls. You can send for that. You can't send on savings, because that's a fact from the market. It's really not like a bank to say, "That's what we're gonna lose on." It simply doesn't work that way. But you can't send for profit under the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	You can steer on return, can't you? You can demand a less high return as a shareholder, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	I think it is important that the return is high, because otherwise we will not get that money back. And I want to see that 30 billion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. The Minister seems to be already able to respond to the motion tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Let me not just say for the sake of peace that I too share the appreciation that has been expressed for one of my predecessors. Mr. Chairman. I'll have to dissuade the motion. This will not be a surprise either, as a result of the exchange of views between Mr Nijboer and I during the AA. The regulator and the regulator cannot impose a ceiling on the profits that banks are allowed to obtain. Frankly, it is also really a question of whether maximization of profits helps to counter risks, precisely because I have to agree with Mr Van der Linde because the profits can be used to meet the capital requirements and to create additional buffers. In addition, Mr Nijboer also made it specific to ABN AMRO's case that it was the choice of politics to resist the temptation to constantly sit with the fingers and place the NLFI in between. So I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	The motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	The vote on the motion will take place on Tuesday after the recess, which is Tuesday 5 March. We can move on to the next debate.
