ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	We now turn to Mr Ronnes' question on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations about the report that Amsterdam has the least affordable houses in the world. I call Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Amsterdam has the least affordable houses in the world. The news from EenVandaag doesn't even surprise us anymore. You can hear everyone thinking "we knew that already," while it's really crazy that ordinary families, the hardworking middle class, Amsterdam and other big cities are being chased out. Who's gonna sing with us in the Jordaan when there's nothing but expats and Airbnb residents? The CDA finds it unacceptable that there are no more affordable homes available for teachers, nurses and police officers. In Amsterdam a middle rental has become unreachable and a house, if there is already a house for sale, is far too expensive. That's not normal. Living has become priceless. Mr. Chairman. What about our proposal, that the CDA did with D66, for an emergency switch for the middle rent? When can we expect that, Minister? Has Amsterdam also started the licensing obligation for house milkers and where is Airbnb's regulatory approach? What are the concrete agreements that the Minister has made with Amsterdam in relation to the construction plan? It can therefore not be a coincidence that everything happens under the responsibility of a college with a left-wing signature. That is a remarkable fact. Many left-wing lectures focus only on social rent. There are high demands on institutional investors and they are too high, as we hear, so they cannot build for the middle class. And because of that, there is not enough commitment to families. Important question to the Minister: what is she going to do about this? How is she going to encourage the congregation to focus on those families, the middle class? We have to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me first reassure Mr Ronnes on the point of singing with us in the Jordan. That still sounds in Amsterdam, just like Aan de Amsterdamse canalen. But a fact is that it has indeed become very expensive in Amsterdam. That's because Amsterdam is very popular among residential seekers. This is reflected in high prices and despite the record number of houses that Amsterdam has added, demand still exceeds supply, not only in the purchasing sector but also in the rental sector. Mr Ronnes is also calling for attention to be paid to this. It is of course known, and not everyone is equally enthusiastic about this, that there is also a large stock of social housing in Amsterdam. That's about 50% of the total supply. I think it is good to note that the research that has been done actually links to some extent different units that are not always related to each other. Because they are investigating the rise in house prices, that is to say, the increase in housing prices, that is to say, about 30% of the offer, and that is to say, against the rise in income of all Amsterdammers, which, because of the composition of the housing offer, is actually quantities that you should tear apart a little. However, the fact is that these properties have become very expensive and, of course, together with the municipality of Amsterdam and the Metropolitan Region of Amsterdam, we have to do everything we can to deal with them. That conversation's on. We'll do it through two tracks. We are committed to continuously high construction production. When I became alderman there in 2014, it was the ambition to build 5,000 homes a year. They achieved a record of 8,000 homes in 2018. So that's really a lot. On the other hand, we link with the infrastructure. So we're gonna make sure the accessibility gets back on track. In addition, we are tackling excesses in the current situation. Mr Ronnes asked about a number of the measures being worked on, including the emergency button for middle hire, because of course it came from Van Gijzel's cooperation table for middle hire. I expect to be able to come up with the proposal that Mr Ronnes has just asked for by the summer. We are working hard to see how we can promote good landlordship and tackle the cottage melody. We have already taken steps. In my opinion, it is also possible to do so in the shorter term, because I have already said something about this. I am very aware of the fact that families in the total composition of the population must also have a place in the city. The municipality of Amsterdam and the region are also aware of this. We also talk about the teachers, the people who work in the care and the police. Of course, we want those people very much in our big cities, just where there is pressure on the housing market. So I also take Mr Ronnes' point into account in the discussions that are being held with the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	I hear the minister's bringing a lot. I also hear that she is in consultation with Amsterdam to get that acceleration. She cites as an example that more is being built than what was the ambition of Amsterdam years ago, but it is too little, I say through you, President, to the Minister. We are now beginning to ask: is it not time for an emergency housing programme when it comes to meeting the most pressing needs? There are people who have been waiting too long for a home, people who can no longer find a suitable and affordable home. In fact, I would like to ask: is the Minister prepared, in addition to all the things she is doing, to look at the design of a kind of emergency programme? For example, you could supplement the bottom of the market through some kind of emergency housing program. Think of Heijman's ONE-like solutions. In addition, you can transfer some of the current stock to the middle segment, which brings you into multiple categories of lighting at that time. Then a normal family can also just get a place in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think it is a very sympathetic point, of course. I recognize that point. I also make that point in the various places where we hold this discussion. Fortunately, this point is also recognised by the municipalities, which are ultimately responsible, which are about the instruments they can use and which target groups they can use in particular. I'm trying to help them. Mr Ronnes has now taken Amsterdam out. Of course, that's also an important city. Indeed, in that city, the prices of residential properties have increased most significantly. I fully support Mr Ronnes' plea. I also support the plea to say that you can make an exception for certain groups and that you can make more effort for certain groups, just as we do for students in certain cities. I think it is ultimately the responsibility of the municipality, Amsterdam in this case, to make the choices. But again, I'll definitely argue that at the tables I sit with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Then I'll go to Mrs. Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	The market has gone completely crazy. The alderman Wonen van Amsterdam asks the Reich: help us! That alderman is also asking to help curb that market, especially with regard to investors, because those hijacking homes away, so that ordinary Amsterdammers no longer have a chance of doing so. Does the Minister intend to intervene to make it much more difficult for those investors in the housing market? Because they ensure that many Amsterdammers cannot now get an affordable home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	As a result of Mr Ronnes' question, we have just found that the prices of the housing in Amsterdam have risen considerably in recent years. We have also determined the composition of the housing market in Amsterdam. About 30% of them are residential property and around 50% are regulated. That's 40% corporations and 50% regulated. We have also noted that there is a sharpness across the board. Mr Ronnes asked for particular attention to be paid to middle incomes. For that you would indeed like there to be more offer at that point. I have just said that I think that the municipality of Amsterdam should ultimately make the assessment itself in the ratio, I shall say, and that they are right to look at the Empire when it comes to special matters that they want, for example the emergency button when it comes to the middle rent. That's an approach I support. Mrs Beckerman is now highlighting one aspect, the investor aspect. That plays a role, but it's really not the only one. Of course, there are also investors who provide offers on the Amsterdam housing market. I would prefer to see an integrated approach rather than one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	I look around a little and I see people sighing and supporting more and more. Even the CDA, coalition party, says: "Come into action, Minister." The Minister shows himself to be a reverse Jan Schaefer. She's just talking, but she's not doing anything. It can't be. There's a housing shortage. We need to invest in houses instead of cutting back, which the cabinet does. We need that emergency button. We've been talking about that for months. There'll be a bill coming up by the summer. When does that law enter into force? Where do people have to live until then? Come into action, I'll ask the Minister. Come into action, do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	The previous cabinet has, of course, already taken a number of steps on the housing market and this cabinet has done a lot of work. I'm glad. I think all that was necessary. Mr Nijboer also knows that even Mr Schaefer could not build the houses himself and could not deliver them within a year, but that there is an incredible amount of work being done by the municipality, by the housing corporations and by the developers and that production is increasing. That's what needs to be done. I'll make my contribution to that. That will be very often by talking and a little less often by masonry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Nijboer's second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance is free today, because I am also addressing the second question from the PvdA Group to the Minister for Housing. You're not gonna get there by just consulting. Mrs Beckerman rightly said that investors are taking over the cities. Make their lives even more fiscally difficult, has been proposed by the Chamber. Invest more so housing corporations can build social housing. Step up against rents that are sky high. All these things leave the Minister alone. I'm gonna call her again and say, "Come into action, do something about it."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	I do not really need that call from Mr Nijboer, because I am in action, I see results and I am very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	It is good that we are having this debate, because the problems in Amsterdam are very big, but that is the case in many more cities and many more regions. The government has instruments to make the housing market calmer. I can only see that this cabinet - I think that lies with Mr Koerhuis of the VVD - deliberately chooses not to use it, because the market cannot be restrained. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, through you, President, if she is prepared to decentralise the instruments such as the lifting of the liberalisation limit, which is taboo in this area, to the housing market regions, so that these instruments can be used properly at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Smeulders says it is a good thing that we are having a debate on this now. The point is that this is a little Question Time. I would like to answer all the questions, but I do not want to turn this question from Mr Smeulders' route into a policy change. Mr Smeulders, who is always present at the debates we do have on the housing market, also in the AOs we have on this subject, knows that this subject... Of course, there can be different views on this, but there is a whole palette of instruments that are being used and that I am also working on. I do what is necessary from the Empire, but yes, I can't do everything either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	The VVD has been saying for some time that the problem in Amsterdam is that too many demands are made on builders with regard to too high percentages of social rent. It turns out that the CDA has come to that understanding today. If builders want to build in the rest of the province, I think we should not stand in the way of that. My question to the Minister is how the talks with the rest of the province are going to drive construction there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	The first part of Mr Koerhuis' contribution was not addressed to me, but the second part was. The talks with the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region are in full swing. You know that the region's ambition is 15,000 homes, so that's about a lot of numbers. It is not just about the city of Amsterdam, it is about the whole region. I am pleased that these plans are ambitious and I think that we will soon be making progress there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	Then Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In real estate we know the expression "mass is slow," but this minister, this cabinet, is even slower. It's a complicated problem. I can imagine that if you're in a situation where you've been waiting for years and you're already out of town, because you just can't afford it, you'll be looking at Question Time and hoping that a minister in that Question Time will give you some examples of measures to address those problems, so that you have the idea that you can look forward to something. My question to the Minister is very specific whether she can indicate three things that allow people at home in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague to say: yes, they are working on it in the places where there is really a shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	The people at home also look at Question Time, of course, but those who are looking for a house in their congregation are looking for what is happening there. I go to work all the time, to those construction sites. There's scaffolding all over the place, piles go into the ground. I look at the numbers and they go up. People also know very well that building houses takes time. The reality is, therefore, that construction is on the rise, that the municipalities have ambitious plans for this and that the government is doing everything in its power to help it, including by linking it to the infrastructure projects I mentioned earlier. That's what people are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you.
