ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the General Political Reviews, the first term on the side of the Chamber. We have now come to Mr Klaver's contribution on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	I hope everyone's in the lunch dip, if they listen to me. Mr Wilders is already snoring. That's usually a good sign. Mr. Chairman. This spring, I became a father for the third time. In our family we now have three snot noses. That's exhausting, but it's also very funny. It was this spring, and especially this summer, that I spent as much time as possible with my children and with my family. Call it some kind of extended paternity leave. That's how many weeks I've actually never been free in a summer. I did that because I thought: I have to be with my children; I have this profession for ten years now, I also have to be at home a little more time. Just playing with them, without Daddy having to look back on his watch, for the violence of a spokesperson sitting in the back room, that you have to get back to work. Just being with each other without a stopwatch, enjoying each other. I did that for my kids, but actually this summer has brought me a lot more. If you're with your kids and you're reading them, then everything has to be in the same order. I think all parents recognize that. You get tired sometimes, and you think, "I'll skip a few pages." That's not accepted. It has to be exactly as you do it every day, with the right intonations. And there's also quite a battle between Mom and Dad, and the question is which one is the very best. Kids always want to watch the same movie with you. Now I've been able to see Grizzy and the lemmings to the sadness of Netflix. It is highly recommended. But something else isn't actually coming in. If you mess with your kids, something we like to do, she tickles and asks them, "Who's the sweetest in the world?', Of course, there's only one answer to that: Daddy. "And who is the stupidest in the world?" Mommy. Sometimes I feel guilty about that and I think we should turn around. But that's not gonna work. Because we do things in a certain way: you are the sweetest, Mama is the stupidest. Rehearsal. Things keep doing the same thing. You know as a parent that this gives kids hold in a chaotic world. But you also know you have to pull them out. You also know you have to offer them new things. And you do. But aren't we all just little kids somewhere? We love to stick to what we know, in the patterns we know. I recalled: these are my tenth political considerations. It is the fifth time that I have been here as group chairman. It scared me myself when I realized that. It was this summer that I rode a bike with my eldest son. The best invention ever I find the saddles that fit on your bike, so that a child, if it doesn't fit in a seat anymore, can also sit in front. Then you can smell in his hair and have conversations. My eldest said to me, "Dad, you're Jesse Clover, right?" "Yes, I'm Jesse Klaver, but first I'm your daddy." "Yeah, yeah, you're daddy, but you're also Jesse Klaver." "Yes, that's right, I'm also Jesse Klaver." That cheers me up on the one hand. My eldest son comes at an age when he is increasingly addressed to his well-known father. That's not always funny. I hope that he will be able to distinguish between the leader of the Green Left group and the criticism he may hear about it, and who his father is. But it also showed me something else. It also showed me that as group chairman you can be a brand, an image. Something that needs to be controlled and managed. Before you know it, you're gonna act like other people think you are. This summer I made a decision for myself: I'm getting out of that mold. Otherwise, I'll come, and we politicians won't get anywhere. We have to do that when people do it regularly, like we do with our children. Mr. Chairman. It got me thinking about all these years in politics, how we work together here in parliament and what role and contribution I make to it. That's what makes me so gloomy. I have to say that I will be the first to say that I myself am involved in the fact that we are quite busy with scoreboard politics, wanting to be the first, wanting to win the debate. The central question, also in the run-up to these political considerations, is: who is going to do well? I understand you've all had numbers from the paper, that you're a C-section with another chance at improvement. But too often you see that we are dealing with the question of who wins the debate: who will come out as winner, instead of looking at what problems have been solved. We catch each other flies. A highlight this week in that context was the discussion about the fund. I have no idea what that fund should be like, but I understand that the coalition wants Minister Wiebes to get turned upside down because he's drawing too much at him. I get that reaction, I've had it myself so many times that you want to claim something or you want to draw it to you, or you can't give it to the other person to take credit for it. But the debate we need is not about who was with us earlier, but about what such a fund looks like. How do we ensure that we shape our future? Too often we move into it. That's what I'm doing myself. Look at the dividend tax last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	Why don't you sit tight, I'll tell the Prime Minister? I am extremely pleased that our opposition has led to the abolition of the dividend tax. Newspaper headlines: the opposition's favorite toy is gone. Honesty commands me to say that sometimes it felt the same way. That's not good. I felt to the depths of my soul, as some people would put it here, that this was a wrong decision. I'm so glad it's off the table. But think, "Oh dear, now it's off the table, what's the next point where you can attack a cabinet?" Isn't the way you should be political with each other. You're for something or you're against something, but looking for the weak spot isn't the way we're getting the Netherlands to move on. We also see this scoreboard policy in the way we work as a parliament ourselves. I am also fully involved in this. The President said something, before we went into recess in her speech, I must say that it did not get through to me at 4:30 in the morning, but I read it back about the amount of debates we have; more than 200. If we request a debate now, it will be our turn to have that debate in two years' time. It's like it's still up to date. I understand how it works. I do it myself. Once you have requested a debate for which a majority was in favour, or a 30-member debate, you leave it at that. For the same reason, the subject will be dealt with once and then someone else will be asking for a debate rather than I can no longer translate it into the debate. In other words, who can be the first speaker? That's what drives us tremendously. I too, but I do not think there is anyone outside this Chamber who gives a damn who is the first speaker in a debate. If you look critically at all these debates, the question is: what else should we do? My group and I have done so. We had 30 debates on the list. We weren't just a court supplier, but it wasn't close. We have examined with each other what matters really need to be debated here in the plenary. What are the things we can discuss with each other in AO's? Without prejudice to any aspect of the importance of the issues, we come to the conclusion that we can easily withdraw two thirds of these debates. That is our contribution to reducing the huge list of debates we have here. And I hope that it will allow us to have more major debates with each other. There are debates that were requested two years ago on subjects on which I wonder whether we should discuss them, while the major themes of our time call for major debates. I would like to have it with the Chamber and the Cabinet before the positions are taken, because if the Cabinet has a position, a coalition is bound by it. I understand that a coalition party will no longer listen to the good ideas of the opposition. Something's just been negotiated, and you need to stick to that. There are a few challenges that are so great that we need to be able to speak openly about them. The fund, whoever it is, we do not yet know how to shape it. It is of the utmost importance that we have an open debate on this because we need all the ideas from the left side of the Chamber and from the right side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	I must confess that at the beginning of Mr Klaver's speech I was looking for where this was going, but now I have to talk about the main debates. In my opinion, Mr Klaver is touching a feeling that has been in the Chamber and at least among all outgoing Members of Parliament in their suicide note. Because whatever party they were from, the last ten farewell letters touched on something of this feeling. In my view, Mr Klaver preaches a major debate on such a fund. I was just talking to Mr Dijkhoff about the labour market and the Borstlap Committee. I should then recall the debate we had here on the Labour Market Act in balance, where there was no room for the open debate. What if that report from the Borstlap committee is here? Would Mr Klaver agree that this is a subject on which we should first have a major debate, provided that the agenda allows it because there are no urgent debates for two years before Minister Koolmees comes forward with a reaction on behalf of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yeah, absolutely. I think that this is a subject that is absolutely true. This is so big, this is over so many cabinet periods. No one here has the solution either. An open debate, an open conversation, dialogue in this Chamber should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	This means that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is opening up the debate so much that there is more room for manoeuvre than that last piece of legislation I referred to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	Sure, 'cause I think it's going both ways. The question is that of the chicken and the egg: where does it start? But if you dare to open up the debate without taking very deep positions in advance, then we as a group would like to listen better to see if we can achieve something good for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	Instead of all these debates, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	Instead of all these debates. Maybe it'll follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	I appreciate it very much. A fine gesture and it deserves imitation, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	I do not know how many debates of what is left, we have requested...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	Three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	Three?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes, you're doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u17	If we delete two-thirds of that, that does not help very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u18	Every bit helps, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'll hold them for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u20	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u21	We'll talk about it later, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u22	Yeah, that'd be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u23	What we have now come to is the number of debates that have been requested and the question of whether or not we are going to be able to debate with each other in advance, without having to stick to anything, and we need to measure our losses extensively later. I like the offer, but Mr Klaver actually started with a kind of self-reflection of what our attitude to each other is, in terms of profit and loss, figures that are given and how we sometimes look at each other. That has more to do with self-reflection and with our attitude in a debate like this. So the attitude now is different from that of a year ago. What else would Mr Klaver have done last year with today's attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u24	That is quite simple, but if you do not mind, I will come back to that in a moment, otherwise I will say something from my speech which I really wanted to say later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yes, then you will have the opportunity to ask another question, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u26	I wanted to say that I think I agree with Mr Klaver for the first time in my life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u27	Well, that's good to see, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u28	Can this moment be recorded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u29	I believe that some of Mr Klaver's criticisms are similar to those I have already made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u31	So I was before. So I agree. So the debate in the Chamber and the working methods here should be less focused on the game of flying each other capture and the charade of happening but much more on the content and the broad lines and less on topicality. I think that in the end, in my view, we find each other there too in the referendum is a necessary tool to make such a parliament and democracy work better, so that you do not only have elections once in the four years of the parties, but can actually give the people their voice on the major issues we are talking about in the course of a major social debate. I was wondering if you could agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u32	What I would find interesting is this. You now come up with one proposal. When have we, as a Chamber, had a great debate on the future of our democracy? There is, however, a report, which has been discussed. But when did we, as group chairmen, discuss this in broad terms? Instead of going into that question now and saying whether I am in favour of or against the referendum, which I really think can make an important contribution to our democracy, I ask: why are we not having this broad debate together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u33	That's what I'm getting from the heart. That is exactly what I proposed two weeks ago, during an arrangement of work that you were not present with; I did. I have proposed that such a major debate be held. I remember Mr Van der Molen from the CDA, I believe, when he said: we are not going to do that at all, that is long planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u34	Instead of referring to Mr. Van der Molen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u35	All right. Let's do that. I'm looking forward to it. I'm screwed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u36	Well, good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u37	You know, Mr. Baudet, I've been thinking about your contribution last year, because I recognized things, like when you asked me if this isn't a ritual dance. You said all that stuff. I think that a lot of people here in Parliament, at least me and my group, felt a little sympathy for you. Once a position has been adopted, it is difficult to change anything. But why did I react to you like I did, like I was stabbed by a wasp? This also has something to do with the way you approach this Parliament. I do not call it criticism; it is rather a reflection on our way of working. I do that because I love this Parliament. This is my second house. The way in which you talk about Parliament and the parliamentary procedures - you were talking about 'under my dignity' - is not exactly the way in which we should deal with each other. What we are doing here is of the utmost importance and I think that all our colleagues are doing extremely important work here. That must also be very much appreciated, as far as I am concerned. I don't like the way you talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u38	I understand. I am glad that, after a year, the wisdom descends and that the substantive message I wanted to tell has descended from GroenLinks. I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u39	I hope that my message about how to deliver something without, perhaps, sacrificing Parliament will also happen. That might be something for next year in the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr. Chairman. Mr Segers asked what is different from other years this year. I will confess to you honestly: after this cabinet lost its majority in the First Chamber this spring, we thought "so, that's good; then let's see what we're going to vote against." Last year, I was saying, perhaps even a month ago, I would still have thought: I am going to strategically threaten to vote against a budget. Because that's how the game works: if you want attention to something, if you want to focus something politically, then you threaten to vote against something. I'm not doing that right now, and for a reason. Because if you're gonna threaten, it's gonna be a struggle between opposition and coalition. Then someone's gonna win and lose someone, and you're gonna get a zero-sum game. That's what I want to break through. I am standing here because we have also looked at the budget and have thought: if we vote against something, for example the Tax Plan, will it be better for Dutch people or will it get worse? Look, I don't think it's nearly enough. I will say a few things about that later. For example, we have considered whether we should vote against the Tax Plan, strategically. But what if you just look at the contents? You took over our plans for last year's energy bill. Steps are being taken in corporate taxation; that you do not abolish it already next year is a battle that we still have to fight, but we will. Then I am not going to vote against such a thing, because it does not make the Netherlands any better. This is without prejudice to the fact that this autumn we will have a substantive battle on all the issues that still have to be changed in the budgets. But that struggle should not take place from the idea of "who will win, opposition or coalition?" or "Do Segers or Clover get his way?', For I think that this is far too few things, because it is not awarded to each other. I find that problematic, because we are not helping the Netherlands with that. That is why I say we are not going to threaten; what we are for, we are for, and what we are against, we are against. We are not going to vote against budgets that make it better and not deteriorate. Mr. Chairman. This autumn, as far as I am concerned, it must be a political battle. Because even if I say here that we are not just going to vote against a budget or against the Tax Plan, I will say to the coalition and the cabinet: explain it. Explain to children in education, to parents and to teachers that nothing extra is being done to solve the shortage of teachers. Explain that while we have so much money in our Dutch economy, on our budget, we do not solve the difference in salary between secondary education and primary education. Explain it to me. Explain to people in care who save lives for €15 per hour, that despite all the prosperity we have here and despite a budget surplus, we do nothing to improve their salary. Explain it to me. Explain that there are still children with very complex problems, for example because they have been abused in their youth, have depression or have an eating disorder. Their problems are so complex that they fall between shore and ship that the municipalities responsible for the care cannot take care of them. And we wouldn't do anything about that? Explain it to me. Explain that people who have been victims of a sex crime sometimes have to wait months to a year before they are heard, before the suspected perpetrator is heard. Explain that we don't do anything about it with each other. Explain that we will be able to continue driving 130 on highways, but that the housing is in danger. Explain it to me! It's inexplicable. These are no-brainers. These are matters that we should settle with each other, not from a political battle because one must win or because the opposition must be right, but because this is best for the Netherlands. When we look back at how we did it as a parliament at the end of the year, it is not a question of what figures each of us get here. If we do not solve these problems, the Netherlands will lose and we will all lose as politicians, because people cannot trust us to fix these things. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned it in an interrupting debate with Mr Dijkhoff that the tide is turning. The front page of the Financial Times is really priceless today. It says capitalism needs a revisit, we need to change it. That is what I hear in Mr Dijkhoff's contribution. I also see it in the cabinet's plans. They feel that something isn't going well when big companies are the ones you want to defend down to the bottom of your soul. They feel that an unfairness has arisen between labor and capital. I see that the cabinet also feels that times are changing, but it is very moderate. It's a very small toe in the water to feel, to watch, to do just a few things differently. But it's not enough. I was talking about the fund. I think it is very good that the cabinet breaks down with the economical idea that the government should not interfere with the economy, then the invisible hand itself gives good results. But when I hear that such a fund should focus on economic growth, I'm scared. Such a fund should aim to solve the major social problems. How do we ensure that our privacy is protected in the future? How do we ensure that we can go through the energy transition? If you focus on what's profitable, then you're going to bet on what you already know, while with such a fund we have to look for all those things that we don't yet know exist. And that doesn't mean one big government project or three really big things. It means that the government must make venture capital, venture capital, available. It means that we have to dare to gamble on many different innovations, to look at what comes out, what is best and what is going to help our society? And then debts. I see the Minister for Agriculture, who, as a Member of Parliament, has done a great deal with debts. I also see it in the cabinet's plans, I see it is given priority. Debts are something very complex. Debts have to do with how people are put together, with the problems they encounter. They can be very diverse. If you get into trouble in your relationship and you get divorced, it has an effect on having or not having debts. If you're having a hard time mentally, it can get you into debt or lose your job. We can't solve all these things with one stroke of pens. But when I see that we do put money in programs to prevent debt but not in solving the miserable things we've created with each other, something goes wrong. As a government, we push people into debt by the way we built our tax system. People get into trouble because they have to pay back their child care allowance or their care allowance. Instead of just focusing on correcting those mistakes, we need to get rid of them. That means we have to have the courage to think about alternatives. Can we, for example, make childcare for a few days a week free of charge? Just as a service to the government, instead of getting money as an individual. 'Cause that's pumping around. The same applies to the care allowance. In the cabinet for this, it was unfortunate to make that income dependent. But what a good idea that was! It was a good idea, Klaas. Maybe it wasn't done well, but it was a good idea. Go back to it. Try to think about how you could get rid of all these care payments, because that can really help people out of trouble. And then nitrogen. For years we thought that we could grow unbridled, that nature had no price, no value. But there is. And that is expressed in the verdict on nitrogen. That doesn't mean that we're going to have a choice in what we can do: or slow down or a smaller herd. We're all gonna have to do it. I say to the CDA and also to the Christian Union: I am not here with great pleasure to say that we will have fewer animals in the Netherlands because I hate farmers, because I want to push them into the tribulation. Not at all. We have to take care of this socially and fairly, because these farmers can't help it. They've also been victimized by a system. But this system, this business model, in which we slaughter hundreds of millions of animals in the Netherlands, also for export, is not sustainable. Not for the climate, not for people's health and not for nitrogen emissions. We will have to do so at a much faster pace than we ever thought possible. The postponement of such decisions does not help us any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u42	Let me ask you an informative question. I couldn't find it so soon, but when Mr Klaver talks about social and fair cleansing of livestock, how much money has GroenLinks earmarked in the counter-budget for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u43	There is no money for that in our counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u44	But how is it social and fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u45	There are many things not in the counter-budget, such as because we have focused on the purchasing power picture and how we would like to distribute it differently. It's a joint effort. We have not included all the things we would like to change in the budget. But if you ask, how much would that take? We've figured that out before. I think you should at least count on half a billion a year and maybe even more, depending on how you shape the buy-out and at what rate you do it. There may still be major differences of opinion on these matters. But we have to have the debate on this and we have to take decisions on this. We need courage, because if we do not dare to take the big steps here, 2020 will be a lost year. I tell you, there are major differences of opinion on this, but there are also issues that I would say we should be able to agree on this this week. I was talking about social services. My colleague Lisa Westerveld is a combat jacket for youth care. She's been in constant contact with all those kids and parents who are in trouble for months on a waiting list. With those parents who watch over their kids when they go to bed because they're afraid they're not gonna make it the next morning. We must be able to say here: we are not going to reverse the whole decentralisation of youth care, but we are going to see that there is a gap. Something needs to be done on top of what's happening in the municipalities right now. We must ensure that there are centres of expertise where these children can go directly so that we can help them. This has not solved all the problems in youth care, but if we as a country do not even manage to do what is necessary for this group of most vulnerable children, then we can all go home. The same goes for the sex crimes. My colleague Kathalijne Buitenweg has been working on this for a long time. If there's one reason I think she's in politics, it's because of women's rights. And when you hear that victims of such a sex crime have to wait months to a year for them to be heard or the suspected perpetrators to be heard, that's not acceptable. This is not only a problem for the victims and for the whole process of trauma, but also for our sense of justice as a society. I'm fine with having to wait a year to hear about my stolen bike, but not about such a case where the integrity of the body is being violated. And then there's the shortage of teachers. Mr Dijkhoff had an interrupting debate with Mr Asscher. What is needed, can we increase those salaries, are there not other means? The OECD recently demonstrated that there is indeed a relationship between the level of education salaries compared to the market sector. In fact, we do the European average at all levels, except in primary education. There's a 30% difference from what people can earn in another place. That difference is too great. We don't say zero. All we're saying is take that to about 15%. The worst thing is, we all know that it is necessary to solve the difference between secondary education and primary education in those salaries. My question is, why don't we do it? Who in the coalition said during the negotiations in August: this is a really bad idea, we are not going to do this? We know we have to do this sooner or later. We don't have time to wait. Classrooms with 60 children. We're gonna have a flu wave in October and then we're gonna take advantage of each other again who's first to ask for a debate about the situation in education, but we stood by and looked at it. We can solve it with this budget. I think we should. Mr President, I come to a conclusion, with a number of specific questions addressed to the Prime Minister. I would like to hear his reflection on scoreboard politics and his own role in it. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we should look more broadly at this investment fund? That it is not just about earning power, but also about the opportunities for social return? Is the Prime Minister prepared to say that there are no goat paths in the whole of the nitrogen problem? That no natural areas will be closed and that we will continue to protect our nature? Is he prepared to take additional steps to solve the shortage of teachers and at least answer the question: who thought it was a bad idea to bring the salaries in the po and vo to the same level? Is there room for specialized youth care clinics? Finally, is there any use of extra resources for the vice police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u46	I asked the question: what would have been different last year with today's attitude? I would like to thank Mr Klaver for that attitude, which is an outstretched hand for a constructive debate on the main points. But also critical questions and self-reflection, and a question of self-reflection with the cabinet, with the coalition. But I'd like to do that the other way around. Let us agree that this is not a debate to win, because we no longer do that. I honestly have a question when it comes to drugs. I do so on a day like today, when a horrific murder has taken place and the rule of law and the feeling of justice has been so undermined. Then I look at Amsterdam. Then I'll look at what the Chief Constable says. Then I look at what Mr Akerboom says. He says, "If you talk condescendingly about drugs, about cocaine, about sniffing, then you're co-responsible. Then you will help to maintain something that is now threatening to destroy society, which is threatening to destroy health, which is threatening to destroy the rule of law." Then I honestly cannot understand that a difference is being made. On the one hand, GroenLinks is very much in favour of prevention and health, and against smoking. But when it comes to drugs, there's a different tone. GroenLinks is concerned about the biodegradability of the capsules of nitrous oxide, but nitrous oxide itself should not be banned. So honestly, explain it to me. Those were the words of Mr Klaver. Why don't you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u47	First of all, and let us not lose that, I think we all have two souls, and here we love the content and politics in the debate. Let the debate be lively and intense. Let's try to get that together as best we can. Two. It's a fair question about drugs. Look, I'm really the total loser within our party. I'm really being laughed at. I really don't have any experience with drugs. Really zero. You can barely see them looking there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u48	Tell me, Mr. Clover!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u49	It's true. There's nothing else I can do, guys. I don't have any experience with it. And I do agree with you. On the next point, and then I have another question. I think we should be very careful. If you think: "I sniff a line of coke on the weekends and I don't hurt anyone, because I like it so much for myself," you'll keep an industry going. I'll never condone them. She'll live long, she'll condone them. But I could say the same in the other direction, for example when it comes to soft drugs. We also have a debate on how we sometimes push some things completely into illegality. I'm asking you to reflect on that. Is that okay with what we're doing there? Perhaps you could ask us to be firmer on some things and to set clear limits, including as regards the effect of what individuals do. But then I hope you can see that when it comes to soft drugs, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u50	I also have no experience with drugs and that makes me a hero within my group. Furthermore, I think we're gonna have to run a drug test in that box there, to determine if everyone's a little clean and everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u51	Now I see people at D66 who are very scared.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u52	Okay. I would say: everything from the VVD Group, we take that completely, but that aside. And yet: yes, I too do have to ask that question. Is the approach we have now the most effective? But I'm going to take another step back, because that's what we can talk about. We once talked about melons. Last year, the Prime Minister liked it when we reminded him of that. That was a very difficult one for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u53	The Prime Minister thought it was a top debate, he told me the other day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u54	Fine, but I'll park it. Sorry, I don't have to take too many sideways, or we'll get lost. When it comes to legal weed cultivation, talk about bones in the throat. That's a very complicated one for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u55	May I interrupt you for a moment? I see young people in the public gallery. Speaking of drugs, it was a joke. Not that you're going home with the wrong message. Proceed, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u56	I think it is a wonderful moment when the President addresses the young people: do not use drugs. Can you repeat that in every debate, even a little bit in the direction of the left-wing parties? I have to ask myself the same question. Is the current approach an effective approach? We have jumped hugely over our shadows...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u57	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u58	... because there's something in the government's agreement about weed trials that's gonna make my stomach hurt like hell. Because of this normalizing effect, because of the signal we're sending out. "It's normal, it's okay to snort a line, even take soft drugs." If you look at the THC content and its harmful effect: it's garbage! Then I just don't understand why we are standing shoulder to shoulder with a Prevention Agreement and want to break through all kinds of harmful substances and all kinds of harmful patterns, while there's an atmosphere around it. You see it now, we all laugh and find it funny as it was something heroic, from the sixties. I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u59	I'm glad you're laughing too. I don't want to put anything heroic around it, but I think this plays a part in how far... Look, I think people decide where the border is, let me put it this way. If people want to use drugs and they like it and they just do, that's fine. But you are pointing to the downside of that, and that is the dilemma, including for us. You maintain an industry and, for example, in the cocaine trade or the ecstasy trade, something goes wrong, and that has a huge impact on society. It is disruptive and an industry has developed around it, in which the underworld and the upper world are interwoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u60	This is actually the summary of my problem. "If you're on drugs, that's fine, but we find the ones that make them very annoying."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u62	But that has everything to do with each other!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u63	So you can say to me: of some things... Do we have to get rid of all the drugs? Well, some things we might have to take harder and say: this is absolutely impossible. But other things we may have to allow. In my view, these are the two sides on which we will have to have the discussion. That seems to me to be a good topic for such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u64	I would like to have a bigger debate on this, but the President cannot say to young people: 'boys, do not use drugs', and then the signal that using drugs is fine. We can't say that. The chief of police says: once you get involved with drugs, in whatever form, you'll be jointly responsible for the horrible industry around them, right up to South America. Again, I have to think about what's effective. But I'm gonna ask you one more time for self-reflection. Not only do you worry about the biodegradability of the capsules, but also about the nitrous oxide itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr Dijkhoff has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u66	I have just consulted: we are not going to make confessions as a group. I stuck around for quite a while asking you who's the sweetest and who's the stupidest. I can perhaps say on behalf of the group that we would answer that question differently from your children. And I've decided not to ask that question at home. But you were talking about venture capital. That's what I said: did he really say that? Yeah, he really said it: dare-capitaly. I think that's a good plan. I don't think such a fund is necessarily for things that are guaranteed to be profitable right now. I asked myself: what will we earn our living in a few decades' time? But before that there was a huge aversion to profitability, while somewhere in the mix it is nice if the money doesn't go to things that lead to nothing, but that we encourage some of those Willie Roots to find out things we can make a living on. I can't totally balance that. Eventually, venture capital is aimed at not having everything in your portfolio on red and lost, but also at making a number of things happen where money comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u67	I think you mean that I said that it should not just be about the earning power and the growth of the economy. Is that what your question is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u68	It sounded like an aversion to profit and earning ability, while I think the cure should lead you to strengthen your earning ability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u69	Making money and making profits is really cool. That's how you say it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u70	Would you like to say that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u71	That's VVD-like, isn't it? It's so cool. It's incredibly beautiful if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u72	We usually say cool.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u73	Oh, cool. Is it cool to be a little old-fashioned? Making money is cool. It's beautiful. I'm just telling you not to start there. It's got to be the outcome. If you invest in innovation, you can make a hell of a lot of money out of it. If Steve Jobs had started thinking that he wanted to make a lot of money, he would never have invented the iPod and then the iPhone and all the other things. It's what you want to change. How do you want to be disruptive? How can you shape the future of your economy? That's where it starts. I'm fine with things coming out that are incredibly profitable. It is even better if the government benefits from it and with it all citizens in the Netherlands. But I added something else to it. I hope that we will also be very happy when things come out that may not be profitable in terms of making money, but that we will improve our climate or improve our health, so things that we cannot monetaryize. I hope that such a fund can also be aimed at this. I do have a big fear about that fund. If we have to focus on profitability, we will have money for medical research, but only for those things that are economically attractive. That's what I wouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u74	The development of the latter will be a very important point of discussion between Mr Klaver and me. Structural expenditure on things that make our health stronger cannot be done out of a fund, but you have to do it out of the budget. Otherwise, the money will be up at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u75	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u76	The example of Steve Jobs was good. The iPhone contains at least three public-owned technologies, including venture capital. The question was whether a touchscreen was ever going to work and whether GPS was ever going to work via satellites. It was also a question of whether the internet was ever going to work. That was a military invention, by the way. You weren't sure. Then that company turned it into a beautiful iPhone. When it comes to the phase before that, we can agree. I think I'm gonna turn it into a wall tile. Mr Klaver doesn't want the goal to be to make money, but if the effect is to make God-awful money, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u77	You will need a large design tile to put everything on it. However, it is a rather fundamental distinction. If, as a government, we assume that money must be made from it, then we are going to focus on technologies that we already know. In my opinion, you referred to examples that are also mentioned in the Entrepreneurship State of Mazzucato. That's exactly what this is about. Do we, as a government, dare to do fundamental research again into things we think: if that really worked, would that be fantastic? It's a risk it doesn't, but if it does, it changes the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u78	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you look at the Netherlands, you will see a great country. The economy is in full swing. Unemployment is historically low. We are the most southern Scandinavian country in Europe: an open, egalitarian, free society. It has brought us much: prosperity, emancipation, everyone's chance of free education, an opportunity to develop and to say what he thinks. You'd say you didn't do anything about it. However, appearances are deceiving and that is the paradox of our time. Behind these beautiful figures lies growing discomfort, many people who are concerned about division, polarization, short fuse, loss of community spirit and especially about the future of their children. The Netherlands in 2019 is like a birthday party: family and friends on the floor, cheese, sausage, wine. Part of the room is cheerful and enjoyable. You hear big stories about faraway travels, rooftops, the new espresso machine or that flashy career move. But on the other side of the room, it's a little quieter. They are there, but they share less in the joy of celebration. They've got a little too much to worry about being able to enjoy themselves unsuspectingly. The kids don't go to school very well. How is this study going to be paid for? Is there even a job for them to find, and an affordable house? But they're also quieter because they don't have the guts to come forward. And the cheerful side of the party doesn't really want to ask about it. There is little contact with each other. They seem to have become separate worlds. Despite all the prosperity, we seem to be losing the feeling that we form a community. For a long time there was confidence in our country that any new generation would get it by itself better than the previous one. Whoever was born for a dime could have children who would become a quarter. But the reports of the SCP have shown for a number of years that this confidence, this feeling for the middle class is decreasing. Increasing uncertainty: who is there for me when things go wrong? For my kids? Where will my help come from? From the market? From the bureaucratic government? No. And so there is fear of falling. The fear of falling. But how did we get here? I can't get around that answer to the philosopher John Rawls. Rawls is the most influential political thinker of the 20th century. He has a huge influence, to this day, with his book A Theory of Justice and his concept of the veil of ignorance. His thinking is basically that inequality caused by other people or by unfortunate circumstances is always made just by the government. Man is therefore totally free to individually pursue his happiness, without any remorse or restraint. Who wouldn't want that, you'd say. John Rawls' supporters can therefore be found among political parties from left to right, in all western democracies. But here too, appearances are deceiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u80	With us there are no followers of John Rawls!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'll be on De Tocqueville in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u82	Then we'll go to Mr. Jetten in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u83	I actually wanted Mr Heerma to finish his fine introduction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u84	And I wasn't that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u85	But now that Mr Baudet has interrupted, I have a question. I share, to a large extent, Mr Heerma's sketch that there is enormous inequality of opportunity in this country and that not everyone has benefited from globalisation over the last few decades and from an increasingly smaller world. But I think it starts with equal opportunities, and those equal opportunities begin with education. This morning we saw some interesting debates on this subject, among others between Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Asscher. At least in those two parties I heard the recognition that if we want to ensure equal opportunities in education, we have to tackle the shortage of teachers. Does Mr Heerma agree with me, with Mr Dijkhoff and with Mr Asscher? Should we then jointly call on the cabinet today to make a top priority of tackling the shortage of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u86	I regret, however, that Mr Jetten did not allow me to finish my introduction. I'll be at school in a minute. I think there is an assignment for all of us, the cabinet has already made a lot of money for it and your party, among other things, and mine, too, have tabled motions on it, also in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u87	But you will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u88	But I attacked Mr Rawls, so I suspected a bit that Mr Asscher would rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u89	I don't think the lesson is "the state has to solve everything." I don't see it that way. That veil of ignorance means that we all don't know who we are in society. You can be Pieter Heerma, successful CDA politician or a child growing up in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. That raises the question: if you have that veil of ignorance, how would you like society to be set up? At a time when it's very "fickle, me," I find it helpful to move you into someone else in that way. I think the choice was made very quickly that you are investing in education in the neighbourhoods where it is very difficult, because you know that it is ultimately fairer for society as a whole. Whatever names you put on it, or any parties that adhere to any philosopher, I think the obligation to do politics not only for yourself, for one group or for one target group but for society as a whole does appeal to you. This means that, in the next year's budget too, the debate should gradually become so concrete that more money is needed to combat the shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm about to finish my introduction. I understand that Mr Asscher is responding to John Rawls, because I think he has been promoted or graduated from Rawls. It's not about Rawls' intentions, because they were a quest for justice. That's always a noble cause. In its effect and in its dominance it has had very negative effects. If you will allow me to conclude my introduction to this matter, I will really answer the question about education as soon as you come back. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u91	I'm inclined to say, "Speak for yourself." There are all kinds of things being said here about what Rawls has done. There's a cabinet here that's responsible. We see a problem in society. That's gonna knock down a lot harder on kids who are already having a hard time. That's where I'd like to go. Undoubtedly, your introduction is going there now. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u92	Great, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u94	Like I said, appearances are cheating on Rawls, too, and on the idea that everyone would want to. Because Rawls' vision of a just society leads to some kind of state liberalism. The problem is that the theory in practice just doesn't work. The virtue of justice is not just to take it out of man and put it into a system. Every man for himself and the state for all of us; on that thought you cannot build a society or a community. It justifies "fat, me, me and the rest can choke." Distinctions between winners and losers are by definition sharpened if not everything explicitly prohibited by law is therefore allowed. I very much liked Mr Dijkhoff's speech on this point. Always getting the best of it, doesn't work, whether it's aboutzzp-constructions, Poland constructions, tax morals or Panama Papers. What is then the answer of a government in a society that works like this? Longer forms and regulations and compliance thinking. As long as it's on paper and all the ticks are marked. But civilians become despondent. Let me give you an example. For many years, the UWV issued thousands of fines for forms that were late or misfilled, but fraud structures with Poland were not dealt with. Market and government are supposed to serve society, but now the individual often gets the worst of two worlds, namely coldness of the market and bureaucracy of the government. Individualisation and neoliberal thinking have contributed to erosion of social cohesion and community spirit. If we ask ourselves what kind of country we really want to live in, perhaps it is time for me to look at Mr Baudet now to acknowledge that perhaps the greatest thinker of the nineteenth century had a better vision of society than the most influential of the twentieth century. In the book On Democracy in America, Alexis de Tocqueville describes the danger of a society that is too individualised. He provides and predicts losing control of one's own existence. A society of every man for himself does not offer protection. Add globalisation, technologicalisation and global migration, and orphan society is a fact. The lure to take back control sounds tempting to many. But how do we then restore balance? On the basis of the budget, I should like to comment on this in the course of my contribution. I would like to start with the government's implementation and the question of how we can make the government and the market more at the service of society and the sense of community, which we all crave so much. Because the feeling of not being in control is often due to a difficult relationship with the government. The Ombudsman recently stated that self-reliant citizens also get lost in rules and bureaucracy. Services are often unreachable, anonymous and little helpful and protocols and procedures stand in the way of good service provision, the Ombudsman concluded. Mostly to the frustration of the desk staff, who are responsible for that direct contact with the citizen. The repair operation and the damage handling in Groningen, the Tax Office, the CBR, the IND, the UWV and the NVWA. However, bureaucracy and compliance requirements, but dysfunctional services are a mix that cannot be sustained. I received an e-mail last year and the headline was: "You can do this!'. That message said, "Toddler gets a fine for peeing." The bouncer was: this country has gone mad. Kennedy said this one's especially for Jesse Klaver, that public trust is the basis of good government functioning. But paradoxically, bad government functioning is a basis for public distrust. The Millions' Note and the Throne Address are explicit, and rightly so, on this major issue, the great question of a human face of the government. I'm fine with that, and it's also very necessary when you see the accumulation of incidents. If you add up all these incidents, you might have to draw the conclusion that something is structurally wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u95	You would like to comment on Mr Asscher's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u96	Yeah, I'll get right on that. He has to be patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u97	I see he's waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u98	It was an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u99	My introduction takes just before the end of my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u100	It made you laugh yourself, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u101	There's a lot of tension. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister what the cabinet wants to do. Because measures have been announced in the Throne speech and the Millions Note that the Cabinet is going to come back to, but I do not know exactly what it is. Who's gonna take charge of this self-examination? Is the Prime Minister going to do that himself, or is a ruler going to do it? This is big enough for a helicopter can and an overarching direction. I would like to make a suggestion to the cabinet, namely to do something about the management culture that emerged from the government. Once upon a time it has been properly set, but I think that the speed of the ABD's rotation is too high and that managers are moving too fast from place to place to do their tricks elsewhere. The question arises as to whether, for example, the Delta Works could still be built today or whether the knowledge of the subject matter would be lacking at Rijkswaterstaat. I would argue in favour of reducing the rate of rotation at the official summit, so that professional knowledge can grow and get a firm place in the top of ministries. I am going to do one more thing and then I come to Mr Asscher's question. Finally, I also think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u102	Mr. Chairman, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u103	A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u104	Well, a suggestion: you could also take a break in the introduction. That's good for the debate. I really liked what you said, but I can't hear it anymore when I keep thinking, "When's the answer?" So if you could just do that teaching point, we'll go back to the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u105	If you ask the question again, then I will continue with my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u106	Very nice that someone is just enjoying it; that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u107	My question was this. Whether you're using De Tocqueville or Rawls, in the end, we're all responsible for next year's choices. You started your introduction with the remark that a great deal is going well in the Netherlands. But a lot of things really go wrong. One of those things you can see in the classrooms. For me, one of the questions in this debate is whether we are able to make a different decision in that regard, to make extra money to deal with this shortage of teachers. Those teachers have the feeling that tens of billions are promised to everyone in fire-fighting sessions, except for the children who need it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u108	I'm sorry I can't finish my introduction. However, an answer to Mr Asscher's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u109	It's a pity especially for me, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u110	As long as you start listening right away. This cabinet has already allocated a great deal of money to deal with the shortage of teachers, to take away the pressure from teachers so that they can do their job properly. That's about hundreds of million. That's good. This also narrows the gap Mr Asscher mentioned. I can see that there are still many problems, but I can also see that there is still room for improvement in the negotiations between employers and employees within the education cao. I am thinking here of the debate on the performance box, for example. But also the amount of legislation. If you include it in the discussion, there will be room for, for example, the specific problem on which I heard Mr Asscher put a question to Mr Dijkhoff: special secondary education and the injustice that seems to exist there. Those who have to teach the toughest group in secondary education receive relatively less pay for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u111	In Amsterdam Nieuw-West is a primary school with one more qualified teacher. The answer that we can perhaps do something about bureaucracy or the collective agreement is only one side of the birthday party: let them be less bureaucratic. I think you should have the courage to look at everything. But what is needed at least now is the statement that more money is needed to combat this problem. We can make that statement here. Then, in an open debate, we will discuss how much money that is and how we will do it. But they're entitled to that. And yes, I'm very pleased with what you're saying about that particular group, the secondary special education. It cannot be explained at all that they are paid less than their colleagues in ordinary secondary education. If I listen carefully to your speech, it is about the quality of society and the quality of the community, about looking after each other. That's what happens in those primary schools. That's where we meet. We let the children with the worst background suffer most from the shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u112	I believe that the cabinet has already allocated EUR 650 million for next year, which is another 100 million, structuralally speaking, in order to solve the problems of workload and salary. But I really did make an attempt, you're always talking about an outstretched hand, to listen carefully to what you're suggesting. But I'll take what I find. In fact, I find, and this has nothing to do with the other side of the party, that is also in something like the performance box and the super-statutory regime, potentially room to make things better and to do justice to the specific point you are making. So it was intended to meet you. It may not be enough, I can see from Mr Asscher's non-verbal communication, but the debate is still a long one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u113	I am pleasantly surprised by these General Reviews...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u114	I think the whole debate is already a bit. It's quite a surprising day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u115	Yeah, the whole debate. In my words it was a bit Klaas Dijkhoff who started to file the raw edges of capitalism. And now for your input, in which you talk about, for example, the coldness of the market. I saw you at Buitenhof on Sunday, which was about living. You said that our housing should no longer be seen as a housing market; that is social housing. That's what I'm getting from the heart. They're beautiful words. I like general considerations, but they should not remain too general, so I would also like to talk about what we are going to do. When it comes to the coldness of the market, you said something about living. But your Minister De Jonge has said a few things about this in the area of care. My specific question is: when is this cabinet going to start taking the market out of care, or is it still the VVD that is pulling the longest in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u116	I thought the question was about the housing market. Then I thought: I will do the same as Mr Asscher, because I will return to the housing market separately. To the question about care, I will give a partial answer by saying how I look at it. In part, I will refer the question, which is actually put to the cabinet, to Mrs Marijnissen. The CDA Group, often together with the SP Group, considers that market forces in healthcare are not working properly in many areas. Look at hospitals in the region that are closed without alternatives. The SP has tabled various motions that we have supported, but we have also tabled motions of our own which say that the regional factor in care should play a greater role because proximity is also quality. I believe that Mr De Jonge has announced the need to move from market forces to cooperation. From my point of view, I am looking to the left here and there will be an impact on some of these things next year. We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u117	Yes, I am waiting for them to happen, but we are here today at the General Reviews and have the debate with each other. You are kicking off your speech with the coldness of the market. I told you, this is my heart. We have fought for this for a long time. I would like more of this kind of text in Parliament! But I would also like to talk about the actions, as I said. You rightly refer to the fact that we regularly work together as SP and CDA to promote this cooperation rather than competition in healthcare. You mentioned motions. A very specific proposal has also been made in a motion, by your colleague Mr Keijzer, which was adopted here in the Chamber. That motion says: you should stop paying benefits, not only in nursing homes, but also in home care. There is simply a majority in favour of this, because that motion has been adopted. I would like to say: that's what your words are; what does your cabinet have to do to stop cashing out profits in health care? That's something that really doesn't fit if you didn't want to see care as a market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u118	In my view, Mr De Jonge has just indicated that he wants less market forces and more cooperation. This is partly about these debates. You're waiting for that effect. So are we. We know what motions we've all taken. At a time when we and the SP think that there is too much market forces and not enough cooperation, that is also the debate in which we need to look further at whether to make things better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u119	I'm sorry, but I think this is a little too easy. We're standing here today. You address an important problem. You've thought about that, and I understand that. You've brought in all kinds of big names. Inspiring, but I think it's important that we take this one step further. We're still in a situation where hospitals go bankrupt. We have health care entrepreneurs, and I still think that's a complicated word that makes a profit. We are still dealing with health insurers, who have to compete fully with each other instead of working together. Then surely there is not a beginning to stop seeing the care as a market? That is why my question to you once again: what concrete steps do you intend to take to turn these fine words of yours into action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thanks for the compliment. But I indicated that as a CDA group, my colleague Mr Joba van den Berg, we have already tabled many motions on this subject. So a great deal of action has already been taken, precisely on this point. If you want any more action, tomorrow is the time to file motions. We're going to judge them. However, Mrs Marijnissen should not express the view that we, the CDA Group, have not tabled any motions in this area, particularly when it comes to the regional hospitals and their importance for the region, and have not taken any action, because we have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u121	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u122	Finally, Mr President. Look, the point of course isn't that we're not filing any motions here. In fact, I referred to a motion, a proposal that has been made here and which has been voted on by a majority, in order not to allow large-scale benefits in health care. But it's still happening. That is why my specific question to you was: what actions are there now? Unfortunately, hospitals have gone bankrupt in recent years. We're dealing with a minister who said, "It's just a pile of stones." We're dealing with health insurance companies who can just pull the plug out of a hospital, which puts an entire community in deep trouble. That's the reality of the day. That is why I say to Mr Heerma: I like the words, but I would also like to see it speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u123	I very much agree with Mrs Marijnissen about the role of the region and the fact that it is not possible for a hospital to fail and that care will be taken for that region. We, the CDA Group, have also tabled motions on this subject which are now in progress. If you say that it must not be just motions and words and that it must have effect, then we are going to see to it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u124	I think we are talking about one of the 4,000 motions that we submit annually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u125	In my view, last year the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance was the group with the majority of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u126	I think I am the first to say that we are fully involved in this. But perhaps the best news of these entire political reflections is that even the most right-wing parties here in the political spectrum, economically speaking, are realizing that the whole neoliberal thinking of the past few years, which they themselves have built up, is not holding up and that something needs to change. It was already about the role of the government. What misery do we ourselves cause? I would expect a critical consideration of this, especially from the CDA colleague, for example when it comes to the surcharges. When you talk about scoreboard policy, last year the then Secretary of State Wiebes was first put on the grill about the shit at the Tax Office when it came to the surcharges and then Secretary of State Snel. After all, it was all a mess, they had to do something about it and they had to fix it. But if we're honest, it was the Chamber that said years ago that there shouldn't be too many checks in advance, because people had to get their fees right away. When it turned out that there were many mistakes, we in the House of Representatives said: "How could you do this, cabinet? Now you must start to maintain!" Then they started to maintain and it turned out that there were problems again. Then there was the Bulgarian fraud. Then all the holes had to be closed again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u127	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u128	What lessons do you draw yourself from the whole supplementing bacle, what role has the House of Representatives played in this and also you yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u129	In my opinion, Mr Klaver has just shown very nice self-reflection in his term. He takes examples of what the CDA has been involved in, proposals that have even been originally included in our election programme, but he also appoints a trial in the Chamber, how things are sometimes handled. I myself have many years of experience in debates on child care, for example. What's there under the heading of quality or safety................................................................................................... I think Mr Klaver is right that we should also look at ourselves as a Chamber, at the role we play in this House in terms of compliance thinking, micromanaging of performers and how often that is added to legislation that reaches the Chamber through motions and amendments. Last week, Kim Putters of the SCP explicitly stated that the implementation question should play a central role in our decision-making here. The Council of State also wrote about this yesterday on the basis of the Millions Note. I think that's wise. In the first instance, I am involved in this with Mr Segers and myself, but this may be for all of us. I think it would be wise for us to pick up that glove as a room, too. I have just asked the cabinet, but I believe that a parliamentary inquiry is appropriate, not just on one implementation issue or on one service, but on the face of the government at all, about that compliance thinking and form thinking. I would like an overall parliamentary inquiry, not just one service, but questions such as: how can implementation work better and how can we, as a Chamber, do this better? I believe that Mr Klaver is also preaching this. I am also thinking of the Elias Committee on ICT, or the Grashoff Committee on the broad concept of prosperity. These parliamentary investigations have shown that in a parliamentary inquiry the Chamber can also do self-reflection and thus prevent the micromanaging of implementation towards the future. If that is what Mr Klaver means, then my group is prepared to do so. I would like to propose, together with Mr Segers, that we should see whether we can set up such a parliamentary committee of inquiry, not just a single service, but a broad discussion of how the government can show its human face more and how we can do our work better so that those performers can do their work better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u130	I think that is a very interesting idea that my group is really open to. But the question was a little more specific to look here again during these Political Reviews at their own role. Once again, last year I looked regularly with increasing amazement at the debates on the surcharges. It was as if the memory here in the Chamber about what we made for junk ourselves was very short. I am really the last person to defend the Secretary of State for Finance, but I would be happy to look at our own role in this whole APB. Can you reflect on what things went wrong there and what the CDA has done there for things that you say may not have been right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u131	I think things went wrong on things that had to happen immediately, without control. But that has already been established in previous debates. In my opinion, something else is happening in the current situation at the Tax Office, and that is really not good. So I do not want a parliamentary examination of the individual problems that are at stake at the UWV and at the Tax Office, and we are not going to talk about this anymore, because that must also continue. I want to raise it to a level and look at these issues widely. In such a parliamentary investigation, you can bring back the casuism, what happens in such a parliamentary process, and how we can do it differently with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u132	I can imagine such a research when it comes to compliance and quality requirements, but I don't focus on the surcharges for nothing. I think that's where the conclusion is that the whole philosophy we had at the time was wrong. That was the idea of own responsibility: as a government, let us not finance services, but individuals, who themselves are responsible for applying for such a subsidy. It's just that we made a mistake with each other, and that's what we have to come back from. 'Cause it's not just the performance. Sometimes there is something fundamentally wrong with the way we think the government should function. In the case of supplements, I find that obvious. We really thought: it is people's own responsibility to pay for that childcare, because then they notice that there is a financial incentive and they deal efficiently with the service provided by the government. In my opinion, the conclusion is that none of this has happened, that we have saddled the government and the Tax Administration with a huge amount of work and, above all, help people in trouble, because they either do not get their fees paid or get too much, so they have to pay it back. That was a mistake. Perhaps it is good to think about that and say: that was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u133	I think I just said that didn't go well there. You can say that at UWV, for example, because the fact that employers no longer checked by default whether there was a reason why people left the service was abolished in legislation here in the Chamber about twelve years ago. Because it wasn't necessary. Who volunteered to be unemployed? Even then, decisions were taken here in this house, which you say afterwards, the effect that that gave in a changing reality, was not good. The issue of the UWV was quite a logical assumption at that time. That's what you can say about the original surcharges. Self-reflection wide is good, but I'm not talking about things that you're going to find out afterwards that it wasn't good. It's also about processes that we have here, so we're going to micromanage the performers. That is just as different from the example of both the Tax Administration and the UWV we are talking about. I think that Mr Klaver of his own group knows the moments when it happened, and I know them from my group. Because we're all doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u135	I'm going back to the previous point. So I would like to hear from the cabinet what is going to happen on the cabinet side, because the intentions in the Millions' Note and the Throne Address are very good, but it is also true that words cannot be left alone. I want to move on to an honest economy, coming back to the fear of falling, to lose grip. The dominant belief in the free market increasingly runs into its limits. The concentration of market power and the excesses in the remuneration of top officials are examples of failing capitalist market thinking. A fair economy is a strong economy. It is also about stable relationships between employers and employees, over the long term over the short term, about the Rhineland model versus an Anglo-Saxon model. It is precisely the strength that was always under our polder model that has made our economy strong. It is therefore also a good thing that employers and employees have taken the gauntlet together before the summer to reach a pension agreement. This is the power of our polder model. However, we see that pension funds are under pressure and that this leads to concerns for our older people. That is why I would like to know what the cabinet is going to do in the short term to prevent unnecessary discounts. That is the Van Dijk motion which Mr Dijkhoff has just referred to. In my opinion, it has been accepted in Chambers, and in that there is an assignment for Minister Koolmees. The long-term sustainability of the funded system should also be taken into account, given the low interest rates and the ECB's policy. This was a motion by my colleague Mr Slootweg in that same debate. I'd like to get a reaction to this. As far as the Rhineland model is concerned, I believe that we should also look at the financial sector. That is why I made a proposal at the beginning of the summer recess not to bring the Volksbank to the market. The CDA wants to turn it into a social bank with honest and understandable products, simple loans for small businesses, and thus also a bank that, through its existence, because of the fact that there is an alternative, can have a cleansing effect on the rest of the financial sector, perhaps more than such stacks of government rules. Not the maximum return of shareholders, but the social return must be paramount. I would very much like a response from the Prime Minister to the idea of turning the Volksbank into a cooperative bank. Madam President. The social state of the Netherlands stated that the quality of life has not improved in ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u136	Very good: social return must be at the top. Are there sectors in the eyes of Mr Heerma that we should ask ourselves whether this social return is still present?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u137	I have just said about the financial sector that a people's bank focused on that social return can improve the functioning of that sector. So that's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u138	Does Mr Heerma agree with me that if we can identify a sector where that social return is very low, zero or even only harmful to society, we should do something about it, given his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u139	I know where Mrs Thieme is going. I do not agree with her at all about the sector she is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u140	You don't know what I'm talking about yet. I'd really like an answer. If your argument is that a sector must have a social return and if we come to the conclusion, on the basis of facts, that there is a negative social return in a sector, then I think it is logical to follow from this argument that we should do something about it. So, apart from the immediate mention of names and numbers, we have to establish this after his speech. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u141	Mrs Thieme has the right to establish that. I love playing this hide-and-seek game, but Mrs Thieme has been interrupting the CDA about the agricultural sector for years. Our agricultural sector has a lot of social returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u142	So I have to say here that in the agricultural sector and in this case in the bio-industry, which currently emits too much methane and too much nitrogen, I say to Mr Wilders, because he did not know what nitrogen was; ammonia deposition has to do with a sector which is literally a dead end. It costs society more than it gets. So I am talking about the bio-industry, the livestock industry. We have just heard Mr Heerma's speech. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Hij kan dus niet anders dan concluderen dat wij naar deze sector moeten kijken en dat wij ook moeten kijken naar de mogelijkheden om de boeren een echt toekomstbestendig perspectief te bieden.]] Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u143	In fact, we agreed on this in the coalition agreement. Minister Schouten I think she was still talking about this at Jinek's office this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u144	About ten years ago, Mr Koopmans of the CDA came up with a ruse, namely the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. This was an attempt to prevent us from being called upon about the ban on the deterioration of nature. He thought, "You know what? We're just gonna come up with a ruse that will allow us to emit even more nitrogen. We don't care if it makes nature worse. In any case, livestock farming can continue." The Council of State's statement on nitrogen shows that we have gone far too far, that nature is deteriorating and that we really need to do something else. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that the CDA should never have done that ten years ago? Talk about the lessons we have to learn, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u145	In my view, we can see that the decision on nitrogen is a rather big issue. That is what the Remkes Committee is looking at right now, in full width. The cabinet indicated in advance that it did not have taboos about solutions. I wonder when the Remkes Committee will present a report. I think that's soon. It will then be examined, even without taboos, how we proceed with this. Only, as far as the CDA is concerned, it is looking for solutions in the broadest possible way. There is a contrast with the Animal Party and preferably with our fantastic agricultural sector rather than against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u146	May I conclude here that for the CDA, the reduction in livestock, the number of animals, is certainly not taboo?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u147	This can hardly come as a surprise to Mrs Thieme, because both in the government agreement and in the climate agreement last spring, agreements were made on a warm clean-up of pig farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u149	The social state of the Netherlands, as I said, indicates that the quality of life has not improved in the last ten years. The Prime Minister will enter his tenth year as Prime Minister. What does he think of the conclusion of the SCP? What assignment does he see for himself and for the cabinet for the second half of this cabinet period given this conclusion? I think it is sensible that the cabinet has explicitly opted for an additional reduction in the burden on citizens and middle income and for a lower and later reduction in the burden on business, taking into account the GroenLinks proposal on a broader basis for large businesses. A fair labour market is also crucial for a fair economy. The Borstlap Committee's interim report clearly shows how the relationships between people with permanent jobs and people with flex work have been distorted. The people at the bottom have become the cushions of the business cycle. They can take the hits. This awareness increases the fear of falling for a large part of the middle class. For example, it leads to concerns of many parents, such as around the end of the primary school period, when secondary school advice comes in. But these concerns also apply to SMEs and family businesses that have to compete with sly platforms with questionable earning models. And then the question is, what kind of country do we want to work in? It is a good thing that the government is also starting fiscal measures in this budget that contribute to a fairer labour market. But we have to move on. I am pleased that both Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Klaver are prepared to reflect on this. A major debate on this issue is a really good idea, which is a good suggestion from Mr Klaver. As far as I am concerned, in a truly modern labour market, we need to work towards a collective basic social foundation for all workers, regardless of contract form, so that we cannot compete on working conditions. Mr. Chairman. Good ideas have many fathers and mothers. Which brings me to the investment fund. A strong economy can also be an unfair economy. I therefore think it wise to work on the contours of a large investment fund. For a strong future, earning power is crucial, but then we really have to invest in that earning ability and watch over mission creep; Mr Dijkhoff mentioned it in the context of housing corporations. How's the cabinet gonna watch over this? How is the cabinet going to shape the fund so that it really contributes to knowledge, innovation and earning capacity in the future? Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the future, I must also say something about the loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u150	I realise that the CDA colleague has already spoken about pensions, but I would like to come back to this. You are talking about the investment fund that is not yet in place, but that you seem to find very useful. I do not know whether it is EUR 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 billion, but there is a lot of money involved. How can you warm up to an investment fund while at the same time letting the elderly die in this country? When it comes to their pension you keep the same string as the VVD colleague: yes, we are going to try to avoid unnecessary discounts. There are no necessary discounts! All discounts on pensions are unnecessary! So I'm asking you to set a little priorities. Before you become completely lyrical about this fund, can you also say something about the elderly in the Netherlands who have been caught and who are in danger of being caught again in January?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u151	In my view, I referred to the motions that the PVV Group has also voted in favour of, which should lead to the cabinet making a full effort to avoid unnecessary reductions with pension funds. But also to look at, given the ECB policy that our two groups are critical of, what that says for the long-term sustainability of our system. This is precisely in order to avoid unnecessary reductions in the short term, but to safeguard our pensions in the long term. With this little bridge I come to the investment fund. If such an investment fund provides the strength of our economy in the future, it is also related to holding up the pension system in the future. This also depends on a strong economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u152	But I'm not talking about the future right now, I'm talking about January 1st next year. On 1 January next year the pensions of many Dutch people will be cut. Then there is no investment fund at all you are talking about. My colleague Leon de Jong has tabled a motion to adjust the interest rate. It's a bit technical, but if you put the 1% rate at 2%, everyone will be helped in the short term and will not be cut. I put the same question to you as leader of the CDA group that I asked the leader of the VVD group: can the CDA guarantee the pensioners at home who are now watching this debate that they will not be cut off on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u153	No, I can't guarantee that. If we could guarantee that, we wouldn't have to take the Van Dijck motion. The risk is there, because a number of pension funds are in severe weather. It is precisely for this reason that the Minister is instructed to talk to pension funds to see if this can be prevented. However, with the adjustment of the calculation rate, the problem does not disappear. Those pension funds are still in heavy weather and that means that you are now, but certainly in the long term, getting the problems twice as heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u154	That answer is crystal clear. Everyone who is watching television now sees that the CDA does not guarantee that pensions will not be reduced from 1 January through the chairman of the political group in the Lower House. There is money and much pride about the future with perhaps 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 billion for an investment fund. There is also a surplus in the budget. Last year it was 12 billion, this year it was 10 billion and next year it was 2.5 to 3 billion. Money enough, money to lower the highest rate in the tax drive, money for what I know. But for the elderly, for pensions, the CDA does not give a guarantee before 1 January and says: people, prepare yourselves for it, if the motion fails and there will be no solution, you will be cut short. It's a good thing you say that, at least you're honest. Now all people know what to expect from you about retirement, and that's shorting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u155	Well, at least this conclusion by Mr Wilders is not fair, because that is not what I said. I said if there were any guarantees, that motion wouldn't have been necessary. Mr Wilders then argues on that and says: these discounts will come. No, that motion was adopted so that the Minister will see if those discounts can be prevented, but the fact is that some pension funds are in severe weather, which in turn underlines the need to create a new pension system for which a majority of the House has taken responsibility, but so has the polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u156	They're all technical answers that really don't help people at home. There are now hundreds of thousands, perhaps a million elderly people watching television. They have only been cut short in recent years. They have had 6% income losses in recent years. While we were all getting salary increases, they didn't get anything. Their pensions have been cut or frozen. And then there's the budget, under which you sign, plus 1%. And that plus 1% that you promise can disappear like snow in front of the sun if it is soon cut. Then it's going to be minus 5%, minus 6% and maybe even more for some people; they're losing that, older people who thought the CDA was something they needed. I'm just asking a question. I do not ask you how you do it, but I ask you: can you, as CDA leader in the House of Representatives, guarantee that the elderly will not be cut short? And you come up with sweat stories. You come up with procedural stories. You've come up with vague motions. But people at home aren't crazy. The elderly know that the CDA is no use to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u157	The fact that our system hasn't been going well for years is a fact. It is not for nothing that it has been discussed in the polder for nearly ten years and it is essential that a new system be established. Only, politicians here who claim that there will never be a reduction in the system are not honest about the system. However, despite the fact that funds are in heavy weather, we must try to avoid that with each other. And that's what the entire Chamber, including you, has ordered the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u158	International organisations have identified the best pension systems in the world. Where is the Netherlands located?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u159	On one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u160	So that's what you think is a system that should be changed? It is good that we note that, because I insist: at most on parts. But if you have the best system in the world, then you're not going to throw it all on the shovel, as you're going to do to the elderly. Can you tell me how many countries in the world use an artificial calculation rate that is lower or at the same level as that in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u161	You indicate that the system is so good and needs to be adapted only to parts. But that's what it's all about. If you want to maintain a good system, you will have to take into account changing circumstances and a changing labour market, as well as changing interest rates and pension funds that are now in trouble. So reform is needed to secure the future as well. That's not something I came up with. It's been talked about in the polder years. I think this is very sensible, and that shows the strength of our polder. When the impact comes, 50PLUS and Mr Krol will look into it, but governing is also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u162	Can you answer the question I just asked you again? How many countries do you know with as low an artificial calculation rate as in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u163	We have just established that the Netherlands has the best pension system in the world. That is because we are sensible and therefore look not only at short-term interests but also at the long-term interests of future generations. We will. This also has to do with solidarity. There are now problems with a number of pension funds in the short term. Some of these will be solved with a new system, but it will also need to be looked at in the short term to see whether discounts can be prevented and how they can be prevented. We all commissioned the Minister of Social Affairs to do so last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u164	I would like the CDA and all the other parties that do so to stop scaring young people. There's plenty in the pots for now and for the future. There's more money every year. Every time mantra that it would be bad for young people, you scare young people unnecessarily. I blame you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u165	I think I just heard it right, the CDA actually announces with so many words that pensions will be cut. You don't want to give guarantees in any way. It's like, "Yeah, we'll all see." This is what we read in the newspapers about the absurdly low interest rate resulting from the ECB's buying-in policy on southern European debt. Your party has never argued against that either. The CDA has always been in favour of this; it is Merkel's party in the European Union, the party that in fact wants to move towards a federal Europe with full force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u166	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u167	In any case, this is where a very large part of the uncertainty for pension systems has arisen. But the point is, of course, that at the moment there is a fictitious rate of return in all possible ways, which is higher than what we now use as an accounting rate for pensions. If an investor has more than 1 million dollars and invests in shares, the Tax Administration assumes that the investor makes a profit of 4% to 5% per year, and from that point of view the investor is taxed. That is our fictitious efficiency system, the capital efficiency levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u168	And the question is, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u169	Pension funds invest much more than that, but apparently we cannot exceed 0% or 1% interest rates. That's totally inconsistent. It is possible: this rate of calculation can be increased and these pensions do not need to be reduced. If the CDA stood for the principles it once stood for, it would explain that now too. That's not gonna happen. Just say it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u170	Perhaps Mr Baudet should start making excuses to a CDA Member of Parliament whom he referred to as an intended candidate for Prime Minister two years ago. You said the CDA didn't do anything about this. I believe that everyone in this house knows that MP Pieter Omtzigt has done a great deal with the ECB's policy and the impact on our pensions. He has tabled all kinds of motions, which your group has also supported. So that's totally wrong anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u171	Were you done with the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u172	No. Secondly, a number of pension funds are in severe weather. Then giving guarantees is not fair and rash, because the system must remain good for now and for the future. You can't go gambling with our kids' pensions. It is not wise to say that we are adjusting the rate of calculation politically, because it is convenient at the moment, in the short term. Mr Baudet also said: because you cannot give guarantees about pension funds in severe weather, you say that there will be cuts. That is not fair either, because in this house, from left to right, we adopted the Van Dijk motion, which instructs the cabinet to try to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u173	It depends on what else you have to spend on resources. It depends on how you can use funds, and so on. If a large investment fund is being rigged up and elderly people are being cut at the same time, I find that very harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u174	The interesting thing is that these low rates of interest do affect us very much, and that is where the ECB's policy has a significant impact on the debt ratio. Once again, Mr Omtzigt is on top of that. But the unique situation in Dutch history is that this bizarre negative interest rate can also benefit us. Of this, the cabinet, which is quite a special step for a cabinet of this composition, has said: we are going to do so; we are going to use a huge amount of money, with this negative interest rate, to make it work on the earning capacity for the future. This bizarre situation, which has disadvantages, can therefore bring benefits: benefits for the future, benefits for our earning capacity, but also benefits for our pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u175	Proceed, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u176	I was talking about the future, so we'll still be on the loan system. The CDA has been opposed to this loan system from the outset and I am pleased that more and more parties are returning to it. Mr Segers of the Christian Union deserves a compliment for all the work he has done to get more parties to the view that the system as it is today is not good. But the opinions still differ as to what should replace it: the basic grant, a basic grant, or something else? A large part of this discussion will go to countries in election programmes, but is it not wise to have a table with parties who say that this lending system is not working and that they want to change something, just to see if there is a chance that you can make the contours for a common plan? In any case, my group is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u177	We have been familiar with the position of the CDA on this subject for a long time now. It is also to be commended that Mr Heerma is today talking about the social loan system. I would like to ask him very specifically: why should we move this debate forward? A lot of political parties in this Chamber, and I think a majority too, indicate: let's just re-introduce that basic grant instead of having to meet for a very long time in backrooms. Can we do business on that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u178	I just indicated that I think that parties in their electoral programmes are going to come up with an effect of the basic grant, a basic grant or something else. I just noticed that I want to try to see if we don't have to postpone it until then, but that the spokesmen of the various groups are putting their heads together and discussing with each other whether there is consensus on the contours of an alternative. So I think this is about what Mr Kuzu is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u179	That's really good. That's good. That's a nice offer. I think we can make a first round today to see which parties are in favour of restoring the basic grant. What I am very much wondering is what the position of the CDA is in this. Do they want the basic scholarship as it was? Do they want a new kind of basic scholarship? What exactly should be done according to the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u180	Our election programme said that we want the basic grant back. The Christian Union has always agreed with this, but there are now also parties who want a basic grant. There are parties who say they want something else. However, there is no longer any support for continuing the system that is now in place in the future. Mr Kuzu thinks that we are all getting there today. I think it's gonna take more work. My group is prepared to look with other groups to see if you can make outlines of what you can agree on in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u181	Just a little more concrete, though. There's a second term tomorrow. What if there's a motion to restore the basic grant? Then what's the position of the CDA? Are they voting for it or against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u182	That depends on the wording of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u183	It says: calls on the government to restore the basic grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u184	And how is that covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u185	No, a motion is for the second term. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u186	Mr President, this is precisely what people hate about politics! As a result, young people also have very little confidence in politics. Nice words! It was so beautifully about the social loan system that we should abolish it and replace it with something else. But why can't we go through with that at a time like this? That's just very, very unfortunate. That is to move the issue forward while there is now a great deal to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u187	I am very sorry that Mr Kuzu draws this conclusion, because I do not think that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u188	It is very good that more and more parties are saying: the way things are now, it is not working properly. You can also see that a lot of people, including young people, have to spend too much time in debt, when there is actually no compensation. However, as it is said more and more often and louder, the responsibility is also greater to do something about it in the shorter term. 'Cause you can't make it all the way to another period, can you? So my question is: what does Mr Heerma expect of the cabinet in this? It is also very common to ask for scenarios and to ask for them to be worked out, so that we can talk about them with each other? What is Mr Heerma's view of this idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u189	As a group with the groups that do not want the current system, I would like to see if our spokesmen can come to an end. I have no objection to the cabinet being asked to think about it. But I think we're thinking along the same line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u190	Fine, but does this also mean that Mr Heerma says: as far as the CDA is concerned, should we not say that it is only after this period, but should we see if we can take steps within this period? The point is that the second-year student who now hears that there are really broad ideas in politics that have to be changed, does not think: it is no good to me anymore. 'Cause then it's extra acid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u191	I have to be honest, too. We have reached a coalition agreement in which we have made agreements with each other. In these appointments, for example, we cut the tuition fee by half. I am not going to unilaterally cancel a government agreement here, but I note that there is a movement going on that says: that loan system has not been a good idea; that has to be different. It is precisely because we do not have to sit still until the next period that I say, on behalf of my group, that there is a willingness with other groups who want it to be different, in the coming time to go to the table to see if we can come to the contours of something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u192	One more time for precision. Mr Heerma talks about the contours of something new for the future. But I also understand that he says: I am bound by a government agreement, so I cannot deviate from it unilaterally. But does he think it is possible and does he not actually think it is our duty to the students of today to see if there is any support for change before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u193	I believe that both elements touch Mr Van der Staaij as I am trying to say. I made an appointment in the coalition agreement, and I'm not going to cancel it unilaterally. I would not expect colleagues to do that either on parts that we are more satisfied with than others. But precisely from the idea of "don't stop" I think it is right that the spokesmen of parties who are not satisfied with the current system should sit down and watch: can we come up with something new?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u194	When that invitation comes, we are very willing to discuss it. But while we're at education, I really wanted to take the step...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u195	My introduction had been very long because this was actually the moment I wanted Mr Asscher to wait for. But maybe that wasn't entirely fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u196	When it comes to teacher salaries and the shortage of teachers, I mentioned in my contribution that we know that there is a real problem with the difference between what is paid in primary education and in secondary education. Now is actually my question: are you opposed to us aligning it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u197	Quite a lot of money has been allocated to reduce that difference. The reality is that there is actually a double reality. One, it's very hard to explain why there's that difference. At the same time, I believe that almost all countries in the world also have this difference. But I gave Mr Asscher that opening, even though I do think that there can be talk about how we can reduce it. As far as I am concerned, we are taking up the other elements that I mentioned earlier in reply to Mr Asscher's question, namely the super-statutory regulations. But also that money that stayed in the performance box we take to see if you can do something to reduce that difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u198	It is precisely in other European countries that we are talking about the difference with the market sector. That difference here is twice as great as with secondary education. I see that the cabinet has come halfway through and I actually hear Mr Heerma say: okay, I'm willing to close that other half too, but then something has to come from the sector itself. In any case, that is already a start to a conversation, which may well be able to make resources available to bridge that gap. I think it is very important to do so now, because we see that the pay gap is a reason why it is so difficult in primary education. So I understand very well that Mr Heerma says: the cabinet too will have to put butter on the fish, will have to deliver money, but then we also have to look at what is available in the sector itself? Is that how I'm supposed to take the story?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u199	I do not know whether Mr Klaver is taking the whole hand instead of a finger, but at least it is two fingers. I see there's a problem. I also see that this issue exists in almost all European countries, perhaps different from one country to another. I have already pointed out to Mr Asscher that this is quite difficult to explain in secondary special education; so you are actually choosing the hardest course to get less money for it. But I think that the cabinet has already allocated a great deal of money for this and I see, for example, with the money from the performance box, the money that is left behind now, as well as the issue of the super-statutory arrangements, that there are opportunities to close that gap. I'm not going to prelude on whether there's more money from the government, but I tried to give you a finger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u200	At least we are now being pointed at, but in particular towards the sector itself. I do find that problematic, because across the board, even in secondary education and in primary education, wages will have to rise, better working conditions will have to be created, there will have to be room for the adoption of new colleagues. I really think it is the responsibility of the government itself to solve that difference between po and vo. Actually, everyone agrees. Labour market economists who simply explain: how does a labour market work? Then I would really like to see a little more room, including in the CDA Group, to say that at least this autumn we will try to find a solution to this problem with each other. Maybe we close it in one go, maybe we still need two more steps, but there are still further steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u201	Hundreds of millions are allocated, both for salaries and for the workload and also for quality. So a lot has been done. In doing so, I am trying to outline how more money can be made available, but I am indeed referring to the sector itself, to the responsibility of employers and employees. I am curious to see how the cabinet reacts to the beginning of Mr Dijkhoff's thinking, which offers some room for manoeuvre. I think that Mr Asscher has been somewhat more specific about this further special education and what possibilities the cabinet sees with the contours. As far as I am concerned, as I outline them, to see if the problems can be solved further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u202	I'll come back to the point of the loan system. I just want to mark a moment that I find special. I was just standing here among the signatories of the Coalition-Y manifesto. The CDA Group has said that a great deal of it is sympathetic, but we have our own position. It's becoming a little obvious to me now what that own position is. There is a very specific proposal, namely: let us speak. Then it is perfectly understandable that the question is immediately asked whether butter can also be added to the fish. I think that Mr Heerma has set a very good middle course, because we do indeed have a coalition agreement. We are always clear about the expectations that we can or may raise, namely that something may not be possible in the short term. But I would say, in the spirit of Mr Klaver's contribution, that open conversation must take place. We know the minister is looking at the flow. She also looks at the question of whether there are bottlenecks and whether there is something we can solve already. So I think that openness is there from all sides and we need to highlight it. And again, in the spirit of colleague Klaver, let's talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u203	I almost tend to repeat the compliment to Mr Segers now, but I think I have done just about enough. Young people are not only confronted with the loan system, but also with the question of sufficiently affordable housing. Living is a first need for life: just a roof over your head. But the housing market is broken: a row house of 1.5 million euros, middle rent in Amsterdam for €1,900 per month, and 800 applications for one social rental house near Arnhem. Whoever can afford it buys an apartment for his son or daughter, but who can't, this leads to early-stage families with mom and dad in the attic. Housing corporations came from social initiative, sometimes from a large-scale industrial group, we have just talked about it, but often also from trade unions, from churches, from society. But corporations first became state-owned and then market players. I fully realize that, when I look at history, if Heerma has a special relationship to it, because the brutal operation of the early 1990s cannot be separated from this development. As far as I am concerned, corporate social responsibility has gone too far into the background. I do not think that we are going to call the SP, by the way, housing "the housing market." As far as I'm concerned, we're turning that around again, even in our own language...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u204	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u205	This was the end of a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u206	Okay. How many sentences do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u207	I have 17 minutes left, but I wasn't going to finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u208	No, that's good. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u209	At the risk of interrupting you in your introduction...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u210	My introduction takes about your contribution tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u211	How can it be that you are at the same time a party that signed last year's Marrakech immigration pact, who does not want to send back effectively and who in the person of Ferdinand Grapperhaus does not want to listen to that every time Theo Hiddema comes up with concrete alternatives? How is it possible that these two things exist at the same time: one you complain about the expensive homes, the trouble young people have to find a home and so on; two you leave the borders wide open and you do nothing about mass immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u212	I do not quite see why if a party puts forward a different position than 'we are going to close the borders', there is no more right to talk about problems in the housing market. I don't see this relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u213	That's exactly the problem. So you don't see the causality. You do not see that you yourself cause this problem because the population continues to grow, not because we have so many children in the Netherlands, but because there are so many people coming here. If we table a motion to effectively send back Syrians who can now return, Madeleine van Toorenburg says: yes, we must wait for the country report... It'll all be endless. Don't make any progress. Can't you see that a direct consequence of this is that there are not enough homes available? It was just on the news that 40 million is being rebuilt for a new azc, and so on. It is all getting bigger, while the rest of the housing market in the Netherlands stands still because of the nitrogen directive adopted, among other things, by your party in the European Union. Don't you see the causality of that? You yourself are causing the problems you claim to want to combat here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u214	There are many reasons why there is not enough affordable build for the middle class. I mentioned the role of housing corporations as one cause. But also local decisions are sometimes related, for example municipalities that have invested a lot more in business sites than in affordable homes because this resulted in more money. Or provinces that municipalities didn't give the space to build. There are many causes. The problem of nitrogen is certainly linked to this. Two billion dollars have been earmarked. 1 billion out of these 2 billion is precisely for solving these bottlenecks. But as far as your question and your causality is concerned, broadening it by bringing in nitrogen: I still think it is a very strange argument that unless a party wants to close the borders, this party should not talk about the problems in the housing market. I think that's a very strange reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u215	You may talk about it, but you must realize...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u216	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u217	...that you yourself caused the problem by leaving the boundaries open. As a result, there is such pressure on our homes; therefore starters cannot find a home, etc. And that is indeed reinforced by these absurd climate agreements and rules that your party is also at the forefront of. So it's two major projects: one: mass immigration; two: the climate, so there are no affordable houses, so there are no affordable homes, and so on. All the other things you are talking about are very small compared to these two great causes, which you refuse to talk about. That is why you cannot come up with credible solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u218	Mr Baudet does, however, make a great deal of sense of causality towards his own point of view. Speaking of migration, there has recently been a European summit in Finland to talk about how Europe can force countries, put more pressure on them, to take people back. Perhaps it would be good for Mr Baudet to be there next time, because something can be done from Europe in the field of migration. That still has nothing to do with whether or not we think something should be done on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u219	Then I'll go to Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u220	I spend enough time with that kind of fun...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u221	Mr. Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u222	...European things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u223	Mr Baudet, you will now take the floor. But you're gonna get the word out of me. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u224	I've flown to those European things, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u225	Do I see a tiny bit of flying shame forming? Well, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u226	Huge. But it's all talk for the stage. Your party has signed the Marrakesh immigration pact. Your party refuses to do anything about the massive influx of people. Your party continues to argue for priority for these status holders in the housing market and effectively refuses to expel status holders who have been able to return for a long time. So that there has been a top in Finland: I like it very much, but it doesn't change anything at all and you know it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u227	I think that if you want to tackle the global migration problem, you can do more in it as Europe than as a country alone. You said for months that the day after the Marrakesh Pact was closed, tens of thousands of boats would come this way. They're still not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u228	That's not true, because today was...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u229	No, Mr. Baudet. Mr. Baudet, I'm sorry. I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u230	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u231	No. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u232	I couldn't let this moment go completely. Mr Heerma refers to the role of his father. There was indeed a time when our fathers were standing here opposite each other in the role we are now in. That was then, exactly as Mr Heerma mentioned, about the marketing of our social housing. I think it is a good time, because I have the feeling that, as we stand here today, we have come a little closer to each other than perhaps the gentlemen at the time. And that's good. My question is whether you are prepared to take steps together. A letter has come from the cabinet and a number of things are happening. That's good. But as far as I'm concerned, it's not enough for you to say that we really need to stop seeing housing as a market. I embrace that, but are you prepared, for example, to relieve those housing corporations, for which you made a fine plea, of the 1.8 billion they now have to pay annually, so that they will not be able to build additional houses at all, to name but a few? Wouldn't that be a nice step?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u233	When it comes to the budgeting relationship, I cannot quite ignore the fact that the name Marijnissen was shot in my head, both in the preparation of Buitenhof and in the preparation of this debate. There have been debates at the time. My father died 20 years ago. So I can't talk to him about it. That is why it is complicated to determine which motives were and were not there. But if I myself read back what the goal was, the goal was that the government would withdraw and corporations would go back to society. I also think that we have been able to see that it has not happened in practice, but also that political decisions have been taken since then, which means that we have been increasingly treating housing corporations as project developers, including from this house. That is why I interrupted Mr Dijkhoff at the end of his speech. I do think that maybe we should start seeing housing corporations as housing cooperatives again and see their social role. As you know, we had a different line in our election programme around the landlord tax than was in the government agreement. Again, I cannot give up unilateral agreements, even if they are not what I would have thought of myself. I hope that Mrs Marijnissen will see that in this budget not only does something happen with money, with serious money. It is true that the EUR 10 million that has been booked can already be spent in the coming years. So we are talking about 2 billion to detach the housing market in the next few years. That's the goal. As stated in the letter on the measures taken by Minister Ollongren, there is more to be done than giving housing corporations money. They are also given the space and the social task of building affordable buildings. I know it does not go as far as Mrs Marijnissen would like, but I hope she will appreciate the step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u234	Yeah, sure. Of course. That is a positive step. I also understand the complexity of the coalition agreement, but at the same time I believe that words should not be free. They are fine words, but they are also firm words. I therefore believe that action should follow. Of course, I do not mention the landlord's tax, which is 1.8 billion a year. In the meantime, this is such a huge burden on our housing corporations that it leads to all kinds of problems. I think that the support for this levy is completely gone. Perhaps there is still support for the coalition partners, but with the rest of the Netherlands it really is completely gone. I think it would be a very good step to say, as a cabinet, that if we really want to give more room for that and want housing corporations back in the role they were once meant to be, we will give them that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u235	It is certainly not Mrs Marijnissen's intention, but I think that in her summary she is failing the plans that are now in place. In the coming years, 2 billion will be invested to facilitate the housing market. This is partly in speeding up and releasing projects to build affordable. That's one billion. But there's also $1 billion for wocos. When Mrs Marijnissen reads last week's cabinet letter, she sees that there is not only more space there, but also the assignment to housing corporations to build affordable for the middle class. So I think it's not just words. I just don't agree with that. I don't think it's just words. I just don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u236	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u237	Yeah, finally. I understand. We're only gonna assume $100 million a year. I understand it can come up when it can be well spent, but basically there is 100 million a year. At 1.8 billion, that's not very much. That is why I have said that it is not the beginning of a solution. Another idea could be to throw it at Mr Heerma at the feet of freezing rents, to name but a few. We now see that finding an affordable house has become extremely difficult and that the rents have become sky high. I see the Cabinet is taking steps. Or steps, I'd like to say. If you analyse at the same time that we are in a housing crisis, it will take so much more than what is happening now. Wouldn't it be a good idea now to temporarily freeze the rents to make sure that the people who came out of the Nibud investigation are a quarter of the tenants currently financially on the ground and half of the tenants can difficult to make a living to help a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u238	I don't agree that it's just steps. I think that the combination of the 2 billion earmarked for the coming years and the broad package of measures announced in the letter are really more than steps. That's also about how you give more space to keep the rents affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u239	I think it is very positive, going back to housing and making that concrete. I understand that you can't do everything at once, but I don't think you can be held as a CDA to, for example, the ATAD, that deduction limitation, which turns out to cost much more to corporations than was predicted. We warned you about that. This greatly limits the possibilities for corporations to build affordable for low incomes and middle incomes. On that point, I would like to invite Mr Heerma to stick to the coalition agreement, but also to say that we are insanely busy here. A measure that was intended against grasshopper companies now leads us not to build for the people who need a home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u240	I would also like to say to Mr Asscher that this Millions note marks a turning point. That is perhaps what he has just been able to hear and feel in Mr Dijkhoff's contribution. The coalition is going to invest quite a bit more in the meantime, a serious amount. This is also urgently needed in view of the problems in the housing market. In the people's housing, I must say. It also takes measures, both in the area of maintaining affordable rentals and in the area of, for example, making investors pay over start-ups. However, I cannot solve all the problems at once and I do feel bound by agreements we make. I think it will also be discussed with Minister Ollongren that there will be room here for housing corporations but also for others to build affordable buildings and to give an impetus to solving the problem that we all see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u241	I wasn't negative at all about what you said. In fact, I was positive. Then you can say "you're not positive," but alle. It's about building more affordable. Mrs Marijnissen is right, however, that the burden on corporations is increasing on balance, despite the good step of the 100 million. You say: that is what I agreed in the coalition agreement; that is what the VVD wanted. But that coalition agreement did not predict that the costs for the corporations would be so high. I think there's a title to say, no, we shouldn't want that. There is a social problem; we have heard Dijkhoff acknowledge it. You want to build more affordable. So start that conversation. I'm not there, but do that. Maybe we can get closer to each other on a second point now. We see that a lot of landlords ask for more rent than is justified and that if they run into a problem, if you already dare to object to it as a tenant, there is too little to follow. The business model now works in favour of house milkers who charge too much rent. Would the CDA be prepared to discuss it with the Labour Party earlier, including in the parliamentary debates, to turn it around and make sure that you punish much harder those who ask for too high rent and thereby abuse vulnerable people in search of a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u242	I am looking in the direction of Mr Bruins, who, by the way, is not here. When it comes to space for housing corporations, I tend to talk about melons that need to be swallowed. It is true that in our own electoral programme we would have liked to go further than we realized in the coalition. It is also the case that the landlord's tax is rising enormously. This cannot be completely offset by the 2 billion that we are taking off, but it is a serious boost for the coming years. I am glad that Mr Asscher is not negative about that. If I was suggesting that too much, I apologize for that. Then his concrete suggestion for tackling the house milkers. I believe that his colleague Nijboer and my colleague Ronnes have been working on this in the past. I also believe that there have been motions on this subject. I am not going to give any guarantees in this debate, but I would like to see whether there are any good suggestions in the direction of the cabinet. I would like to come back to that in second place, because it is a concrete suggestion that we have already been working on. I think it is a constructive suggestion, also in relation to the measures relating to house milkers already in the cabinet letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u243	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u244	Good, that second point. We're gonna work on that. Then there is the first point. We have all noticed that there is money in search of a plan, that there is a fireplace where two men argue who came up with it, but there are still few concrete ideas to invest. I think this is such a concrete idea: affordable housing, essential for our economy, essential for young people looking for a home, essential for older people who would like a smaller but affordable home. This is a really good subject that you don't need research for very long. We call it the Wobke-Wiebefonds. We need that money for affordable housing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u245	What appeals to me very much in Mr Heerma's speech he did that Sunday is that you actually have to move from the housing market to housing. That's really taken from my heart. As far as Mr Heerma is concerned, is this also part of the fact that we are going to regulate the rental market again and that we are going to take further action on the rents and how high they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u246	In my opinion, yesterday's letter from Minister Ollongren, Princess Day, contains measures that intervene more, that control more from the government on both the rental market and the sales market. I think these are good agreements and we should get to work on them. I don't think it's totally government regulation, but I want to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u247	It was a cabinet letter and a coalition party, so I'm not surprised you want to get on with it. But if we look at the bigger idea, there is a big problem. It was already about monetary decisions being made. Money in the bank doesn't pay off. It's very interesting for people to invest. Real estate is a good investment. This is going to be worth even more, much faster, and that has an effect on the WZ value, or on the rental prices. If you don't have the courage to intervene in this, you're going to have almost nothing to do with social housing. There is almost no middle rent under €1,000. Shouldn't we also just intervene fairly hard in what can be asked for maximum rent, to make sure that speculation is also less interesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u248	I would advise Mr Klaver to read yesterday's letter very carefully. It is precisely at the points he is now pointing out, such as the increase in rent and the handling of speculators, that there are all kinds of measures in it. The cabinet is already working on the idea put forward by Mr Klaver, so count your blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u249	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u250	Mr. Klaver must count his blessings. I'll say it more neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u251	I am glad that Mr Heerma can speak so passionately about the housing market. Last summer we both talked about the silent disaster in the housing market for start-ups and people who depend on middle-rent and middle-cost. But it is no longer a silent disaster, because everyone sees it. Everyone sees how difficult people in the Netherlands get to a house. Yes, there is a fine letter from the Minister with a number of measures to tackle investors and house milkers harder and give starters more space. But the crux is also that we invest these 2 billion well, so that housing corporations can build and communities can develop residential areas. We agree on that, but there's a dark cloud of that nitrogen crisis over our heads. It threatens to block the construction of all these affordable homes. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that we should call on the cabinet to consider how, at least in the case of the nitrogen crisis, housing can continue to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u252	I actually have two answers to this question and one is a little bit nicer than the other. Let me start with the nice answer. I agree with Mr Jetten. Mr Dijkhoff already referred to her as the Minister of Housing, but I would like to turn that into the Minister of Housing. This Minister for Housing has a role to play, because when we talk about money and measures, it cannot stop there. The Empire will also have to take more responsibility and direction, so that that housing also comes free. The Empire must dare to designate areas for this and actively participate in it. We're going to have to be included in that as a room. This increases the role played by national politics and the Empire in housing than it has been in recent years. But when it comes to the problem of nitrogen, I must also say that I have a bad feeling about the anti-farming plan that D66 came up with last week. The picture lingers that half of the agricultural sector has been wiped out with one stroke of pens. I don't think that's right and I don't think that's wise. My first reaction was: no farmers, no food. We know that our agricultural sector will be of enormous importance in the future, especially for food supplies, not just here, but possibly even worldwide. This is and remains a huge economic factor for the Netherlands. So, when it comes to nitrogen, I would like to put another way of thinking against it. Mr Klaver has already introduced a very different way of thinking when it comes to how we do our work in the Chamber at all, but let us think in a different way when there are problems with nitrogen in construction projects. Let's say you're gonna start by looking in the area at the age of farmers who live there. I'm gonna give you a note saying that there's old farmers in there who have business succession problems. Then a good discussion about a fair price for yet to be designated expensive building land can sometimes be more effective to come up with solutions than bullying good farmers with a good business across the border. I think you'll really be able to get results. You do more with that than with a story like that that half the livestock has to disappear. I also think that there could be an interesting piece of bycatch, namely that you are doing something about undermining. This will enable the farmer in need to resist a drug criminal who is trying to manifest himself as a sugar daddy in the yard, because our fantastic agricultural sector is working on solutions rather than against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u253	I am very pleased with this answer, because Mr Heerma is actually fully in line with D66's vision of a sustainable agricultural sector. Mr Heerma's first answer is: yes, if we want to build, build, build, then we will have to look at this nitrogen crisis and see how we can actually build it. This means that in other places you have to reduce the emissions of too much nitrogen. My story to the agricultural sector is as well: we see that your system is stalling; we see that there are farmers who have to work 70 hours a week and who, with a lot of pain and effort, just bring in a minimum income, and we see that there are farms where there is no follow-up. These are companies that you can help by, for example, defending animal rights. There are also farmers who want to make the transition to sustainable agriculture and ask us, the government, to help me move to sustainable agriculture. If we dare to make that choice, if we dare to opt for this minister's circular agricultural vision, then we can reduce livestock, reduce nitrogen emissions and thus create a lot of space for these much-needed homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u254	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u255	But I'm gonna respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u256	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u257	I think what Mr Jetten is doing is special. Yes, I think the Minister has a very good story that she had from the week in Jinek about how to make that transition with each other and how to do something with our fantastic agricultural sector. Mr Jetten should just not pretend that that is what D66 did last Monday with the big headline 'Half the livestock must be gone'. That is against our agricultural sector, and I regret that. So he should not interpret my answer as support for it, because it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u258	This is the second time I've heard the Minister discuss it in Jinek, but it should also be in the Chamber. Okay, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u259	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. But again, I think we'll find each other here again in the middle. We, as politicians, were ultimately ordered to dare to ask the big questions and to dare to answer them with each other. Mr Heerma mentioned this in his speech, although I think he used some other words. The recognition that we have to do with each other today is, in my view, a matter of urgency, and I think that I agree with Mrs Thieme that the current agricultural system has been stalled. That is not something we should blame the farmers, but all of us. We pay too low a price for the food they produce. In doing so, we have forced farmers to scale up and scale up in order to earn a decent living at all. The effect of this is that we have too high concentrations of livestock and therefore too high concentrations of emissions, which have an impact on our nature and on our public health. We now have a unique opportunity to use the climate crisis and the nitrogen crisis to invest in a sustainable agricultural sector that can still be world leaders in 10, 20 or 30 years. If we can do that, we'll also create the space to build those houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u260	In his follow-up question, Mr Jetten has just touched on the point that farmers should also be able to earn a fair living. That is something my colleague Jaco Geurts has been working on for years. This also has to do with the purchasing power of supermarkets. If D66 wants to think about that, I think it's very welcome. I also think that is wise, because this is a fundamental issue in the transition to a circular agriculture that has been agreed. But if you want to achieve a transition well with each other, and if you also want to find good answers to a very complex issue about nitrogen, then what D66 did last week doesn't help. I think Mr Jetten also recognises that the story he is telling to the interrupting microphone is a lot more nuanced than what was said in the newspaper at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u261	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u262	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I would like to take Mr Heerma's invitation to see how we can strengthen that power of farmers in relation to large supermarket chains and other incomes. This seems to me to be absolutely crucial, also in order to maintain the income model of the agricultural sector. Again, our vision of circular agriculture is not intended to kick people's asses, but to prevent us from throwing sand in people's eyes and seeing how we can offer perspective together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u263	It is a very good plan of D66 to at least halve the number of animals in the future. I want to know if Mr Heerma knows how many farmers we have left in the livestock sector. In 2005 we had 9,800. How many do you think we have now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u264	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u265	That's halved. And why? Because of the policies of the CDA and the VVD, which have really left the farmers in debt. In fact, they have become simply bank debt-healers. They have continued to intensify and large scale for the big cowboys. The family businesses are gone. If the CDA wants to make a nice story here that it is so eager to stand up for the farmers, it has to look at its own policy, because every day five to seven farmers have to stop. This is not because of the plans of D66, GroenLinks or the Party for Animals, but because of the policy of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u266	It is very special that Mrs Thieme is now acting as the great protector of the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u267	I am particularly concerned about the hypocrisy on your part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u268	Mrs Thieme hasn't let a debate pass for years without passing on to our fantastic agricultural sector and putting it like an enemy. I think Mr Jetten also knows that the great negativity with which the D66 plan has been received has to do with that. The fact that Mrs Thieme is going to reproach the CDA here about the treatment of the agricultural sector is a real disgrace to me. We have a fantastic agricultural sector that is of great importance worldwide, including for the future with climate change and for food supplies. What I have said here in this debate is: yes, we need a transition. We have also indicated this in the coalition agreement. We are not blocking this transition, but we are going to make it with our fantastic agricultural sector and not against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u269	If there is something the CDA really has to take responsibility for, it is the fact that every day five to seven farmers have to stop their business and that we are dealing with pig farmers who are no longer getting a normal, decent price for their products. That has nothing to do with what the Party wants for the Animals. This also has to do with the fact that your CDA also stands for free trade agreements such as CETA, TTIP, the agreement with Ukraine and now the agreement with Mercosur countries. They too are seen as a major threat to their sandwiches from the farming sector. What does the CDA have to say about the fact that international trade in agricultural products continues at the expense of our own farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u270	Firstly, the first priority for the CDA in assessing these types of treaties is that they should not be bad for our farmers. But I also find it very strange that Mrs Thieme is blaming the CDA for the fair price farmers should get for their products, because, as I have just said, it was my colleague Jaco Geurts who first drew attention to this in this Chamber and who has explicitly started to work on the fact that some purchasing conglomerates in supermarkets are partly better protected by the Competition Act than that small farmer and small entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u271	If the Netherlands is flooded with pluffed chickens from Ukraine with the CDA's permission and if a Mercosur agreement is concluded with Brazil, where the rainforests are currently burned because of the meat and cattle feed sector, then we all know that the CDA is only going to make it more difficult for farmers at the moment. So I want to hear from the CDA whether it really is behind the farmers and whether it will say no to this scale increase in this country, which will make family businesses disappear, and against those free trade agreements, which will flood us with cheap dieron-friendly and environmentally unfriendly products.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u272	The CDA is always behind our farmers and behind our fantastic agricultural sector. If Mrs Thieme is really in favour of our farmers' earning model so that they get a fair price for an honest product, I would say that Mr Jetten has already picked up the glove, perhaps it is a good thing that Mrs Thieme also has to deal with Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u273	I suggest that you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u274	I do not think Mr Klaver is happy with his whole group on drugs. I do not have the impression that I have just made my colleague Geurts very happy. I apologize for that. I had for myself at the end of my plea to work with farmers instead of against farmers created a bridge towards undermining. Many for me have started the terrible attack this morning in Amsterdam, which has been pressing us with the facts about how much undermining is going to happen and how much it is affecting our rule of law. I have heard several people today say that it is really an attack on our rule of law. I was going to talk in part of my speech about matters that Mr Klaver was just talking about: subjects such as snuff shame and that there is no production without demand. But most of all, I want to say that we really need to hit that undermining. The narcostate is fighting our rule of law and we cannot afford to lose it. This morning's attack shows that we are not close to Italian mafia practices, but that they are long and wide. With extra money and undermining legislation, the cabinet is already building up to do something, but I do not think it is enough. More needs to be done to really hit organised crime. This also has to do with effective implementation. There will need to be an intervention team undermining, in which all branches of sport, detectives, financial detectives, tax authorities, labour inspectorates, as well as aid workers and youth workers are included. Such a team will need to be given perseverance and will therefore also have to be able to put aside all kinds of procedures that apply in Bibob legislation, the sharing of information. Those powers need to be targeted for this team. This also affects a plea by the regional mayors. Only then can we win this battle from the narcostate with facts on the ground. Then we can roll up the criminal networks and start taking heavy boys big sums of money. I see possibilities similar to the Crisis and Recovery Act: temporarily giving these powers a real blow to organized crime. I would like a response from the cabinet. But there is also a social side. Because in the case of disadvantaged young people, who have been taking steps in organized crime for about ten years now, we are not going to get there with repression alone. A neighbourhood- and family-oriented approach is also needed, long-term focus on district building and an alternative for young people who are now at risk of slipping. I think there are valuable lessons to be learned from Marco Pastors' approach in the Rotterdam Zuid National Programme. Mr Asscher and Mr Dijkhoff spoke about this in a different way. I would very much like a response from the Prime Minister, both in the debate they had and in this area, the social side of countering undermining. Madam President. This year and next year we celebrate 75 years of liberation. The memories of the horrors of the Second World War, but also the heroism of the resistance and our liberators, oblige us all to cherish and protect the freedom and solidarity of our country. I advocate healthy patriotism: be proud of the Netherlands, of our history, of our western values and traditions. And at the same time not blind to existing injustices like discrimination. If you choose the Netherlands, the Netherlands chooses you. It will work fraternizingly and show that there is more between populations that binds them than separates them. But that also means combating what is undesirable and totally contrary to our values and traditions. I am talking about girls' circumcision and women's oppression, but also about the Salafist education that preaches hatred towards our society. The Minister for Education and the Education Inspectorate have a task to address here. This is in the interests of our rule of law. And this applies to both regular and informal education, which I think was also mentioned by colleagues Dijkhoff and Segers last week. I would like a response from the cabinet. Moreover, there were already several measures in the coalition agreement to promote inclusive patriotism. I am thinking, of course, of social service. That's why I'm going to quote Kennedy again, especially for Mr. Klaver. "Don't ask what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." Another way to stimulate that healthy patriotism is to make our birth papers accessible, making them jointly accessible in a beautiful public place for the whole of the Netherlands. This can be fraternizing and integral, even to people who are new in the Netherlands. Because the Union of Utrecht, the Plate of Abandonment and the Apology of Willem van Oranje mark not only in the history of our country, but also in that of the rest of the world a unique and important revolution. For the first time, it was established that the monarch derives his legitimacy from his degree of service to the people. Let us be proud of this and let us give its binding effect a chance. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it will ensure that these birth papers of the Netherlands together get a nice place, full in the sunlight, as Mr Dijkhoff said, although that may not be the best place for the papers themselves. Madam President, I'm finishing up. When we go back to the birthday party and think about those separate worlds, we have a daily task in this house to build a country in which we want to live and work, and in which we form a community together. It follows the task of keeping society together, bridging divisions and building a strong society, a fair economy and a future that people can face with confidence. No fear of falling, but the will to climb. To climb together. Because the view at the top will be worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u275	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u276	That was a nice round speech by Mr Heerma. He started with "everyone has to be able to compete, we have to bridge that gap." And that's what he ended up with. But I actually missed one thing in the argument between them: wage developments. I had an interrupting debate on this earlier with Mr Dijkhoff. Next year, wages will increase by 2.5% on average. Is that enough for Mr Heerma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u277	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has taken responsibility for putting pressure on that. And I have heard very well that Mr Jetten has asked Mr Dijkhoff to look for a way to keep that pressure on it, so that the joint wage requirement of the Prime Minister and the FNV is achieved in practice in large companies. We just need to look at the way we apply that pressure. And next year we have to see if that movement around the tax on profits needs to be made. I agree with the point made by Mr Dijkhoff that we must ensure that we punish the companies that do make the right move because of the companies that did not. I think that is an essential issue. And I think keeping the pressure on it is very sensible. I also think that it has not often occurred in history that the Prime Minister of a country has been in favour of the wages of the FNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u278	And yet for the people at home: that wage requirement of the FNV is 4.5% to 5%. That FNV and the groups of the CDA, the VVD and D66 actually join the Prime Minister's call: make sure, dear employers, that employees will be able to benefit from this economic growth next year. We are prepared to keep up the pressure, with the profit tax reduction of 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u279	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u280	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u281	I have a question about the youth. Mr Heerma, my colleague from the CDA, spoke about education, about how young people should get a home and about the task that we as a government have to take care of people. You're actually automatically gonna end up with juvenile care. In my contribution, I referred to a group of children falling between shore and ship. They have really suffered from the transfer to the municipalities, something we have invented with each other. Now you know the plea for those specialised youth care institutions for which we, as the national government, are responsible. How does Mr Heerma view this? Does he see room to explore with us how we can achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u282	I am going to give Mr Klaver three answers, and they are all friendly. It's possible. The first is that the cabinet does not give an extra 300 million for the problems in the youth care sector for nothing. Secondly, I think Mr Klaver knows this, because since the municipal elections in this area, his party has quite a lot of aldermen................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Especially when you see that in some municipalities the fastest growing company of the municipality, and winner of the award for entrepreneur of the year, is a desk that takes money from youth care for very light cases of autism. It happens literally. So something has to be done at local level as well. Those are my first two answers. The third answer is that, in my opinion, Mr Klaver is touching a problem. What I did to Mr Asscher earlier, I am doing again. I am not going to say that at the end of this debate I have a bag of money, but I think that Mr Klaver is right and I am very curious to see what the cabinet is going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u283	Thank you for this opening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u284	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u285	I see the rulers all sitting here and I suddenly have to think of the statement I heard the Prime Minister make on television yesterday or the day before yesterday. It was about: politics is showbiz for ugly people. I was wondering which of the colleagues he had in mind when he said that. I see them all sitting here like this: that can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u286	I'm afraid to name it, but he's pointing out someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u287	It's gonna be dangerous! They're arguing about it a little bit further. I get that. Mr. Chairman. When we were in this place last year, it was about the cabinet's intention to abolish the dividend tax. It has already been mentioned: a gift to the multinationals. Fortunately, the cabinet came back from that. The cabinet, which at the time felt that this was necessary, is now taking measures to ensure that companies pay a decent share of the tax on their profits. The cabinet also wants to stop the gas extraction in Groningen more quickly, as it turned out recently. This did not seem possible at first, but the decision has now been taken. Of course, in Groningen they want to see actions first and there is still a lot of work to be done about the reinforcement. But hopefully this will be a turnaround. This gives hope. Hope that in other areas, too, this cabinet could be a turning point. I would like to take an advance on this, for example by replacing competition with cooperation in the market. For example, by establishing climate justice as a starting point for all our climate policy. That reversal is necessary. There is growing social resistance to the fact that justice is too often against the importance of short-term profits at the moment. When I asked Shell's boss about the morality of his company recently at a hearing, he looked a little hard and said: morality, I think that's a complex concept. He indicated that Shell would only do something when the law required the company to do so. This confirms us in the idea that contemporary capitalism is amoral. As a result, it keeps the door wide open for immoral action at all levels. Short-sighted production processes at the expense of life on the planet, an unprecedented accumulation of income and wealth among very few at the expense of the prosperity of many. The economy is growing. A lot of people have worked very hard for that. Most people, however, did not get their fair share. Despite the nice promises made by the cabinet last year, last week it appeared that no less than half of the Netherlands has improved in purchasing power. People's wages didn't rise or hardly did, but the energy bill, the price of the groceries, rent and care all went up. Our country has never had so many millionaires. At the same time, 600,000 families live in poverty. That is not fair, and that must be changed. Yesterday we listened to the speech of the throne. Not long after the SP opened the Throne phone. The Dutch could call that phone number to let them know what they thought of the throne speech. Second MPs of the SP were ready to listen to that. Dear Prime Minister, a lot of people are worried. During the Rutte governments, shareholder benefits rose much more than wages. So the question is, how long are we going to let that system go? How long are we going to increase inequality? How long are we going to let it happen that salaries and benefits at the top rise so much more than the wages of people who have worked so hard for that? Now that the consequences of neoliberal politics have become so clear, we can also see that criticism of them is slowly widening. It is not exactly as radically well-known gentlemen, namely Mr.Jan Terlouw and Mr. Herman Tjeenk Willink, who recently warned against the disastrous consequences of a society being dictated by a free market. Was it not my esteemed colleague Gert-Jan Segers who warned last year about the consequences of raw capitalism? And was it not my colleague Rob Jetten who announced in his Kerdijk lecture that he would fight the enormous inequality and advocated a millionaire tax? I therefore ask Mr Jetten today whether that agreement is still in place. Will we table a proposal to achieve an effective millionaire's tax? I see Mr Jetten coming to the microphone. That's promising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u288	If you get such an open invitation from Mrs. Marijnissen, then of course you have to go to the interrupting microphone. I have indeed pronounced the Kerdijklecture at the beginning of this year. We have talked a lot about incomes today, but the wealth inequality in our country is actually much greater than income inequality. I plead with my party for a progressive capital tax, whereby you will also pay a little more tax in case of larger assets. If Mrs Marijnissen would like to think about that with me in the coming time, I would be delighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u289	There you go! It has already been mentioned: Prime Minister Rutte will be here for ten years. I admit that there has been a lot of growth in these ten years: the profits of multinationals, for example. Shell makes $64 million profit a day. The number of top-income Dutch people has increased by more than half in the past period. Profit distributions to shareholders have also grown considerably. While the profits of large companies go through the roof, people's purchasing power is barely increasing. The fact that the 10% richest people in the Netherlands own two thirds of our wealth means that the Netherlands, after the United States of the rich Western countries, is the frontrunner in wealth inequality. While the wealthiest are dodged massively, there is a growing group of people who are no longer able to pay their bills. Increasing differences and less cohesion; more individualism and less solidarity; private wealth versus public poverty. After decades of sacred faith in the market, it is now time to start something new. As far as I am concerned, that starts with the realization that a country is more than a market, the view that a person is more than just a consumer, and the belief that politics is more than "you choose for yourself." My generation and the generation that comes next grow up in an uncertain world. The ESC also warned us recently about a flex job, a flex house, a flex future and not knowing what you have in your account at the end of the month. This leads to great uncertainty for young people and puts a whole new generation in trouble. We will have to do more for security for every Dutchman, and especially for our young generations. After all, they are the future of this country. An affordable home, the ability to study without putting yourself in debt hugely, an income you can be sure of, and a basis to build a future. If the Prime Minister really wants wages to rise, will we increase the minimum wage and the related benefits as a first step? That's my question to him. The minimum wage is laid down by law here in the Chamber. That is what politics is about. It has a direct effect on half a million people living in the Netherlands from the minimum wage. It helps so many people who have to make ends meet right now. In addition, it raises the bottom of our entire wage building, which can have a driving effect on the rest of the wages in the Netherlands. This autumn, therefore, we will come up with an initiative law to substantially increase the minimum wage. Then, hopefully, the Prime Minister will no longer have to beg with the business community and let us inform employees fairly about the profits. But of course much more is needed; so do I. We will therefore be submitting an initiative law on a golden share for employee profits this autumn. The employees of a company with more than 100 employees are given a priority share, giving them the right to profit sharing and more control. In many European countries, this is already being discussed and thought-out, and there is already more to it than we are. As far as we are concerned, it is a first step in achieving a fairer balance between employees and shareholders. The Netherlands is in a housing crisis. We have talked about this a number of times today. Starters don't stand a chance at a store because investors hijack the houses in front of them. The average waiting period on the waiting lists for a social housing unit is nine years. 2.5 million Dutch people live in a house with flaws and last week it turned out that a quarter of the tenants are financially on the ground. The proposal that the SP made to the budget last year, among other things, to start a billion-dollar fund for living seems to be taken over. That is, of course, good; we are happy when our proposals are accepted. But as one could have understood, we are not entirely convinced that it is happening in the right way. Due to the landlord's tax, which has been discussed a number of times today, all tenants have had to pay €3,200 extra in the past period. To paint an image: of that amount, those tenants could have placed eight solar panels on their roof. I ask the Prime Minister whether that would not have been a much better investment. And there's more to it. Building alone isn't enough. We don't need subsidized houses that no one can afford. Then we make builders and landlords rich, but the house seekers are not helped with that. We therefore also propose freezing the rents over the next five years. With regard to the new housing built with the fund, we could agree that we would set an affordable rental price. If training is a good investment in society, then society must also invest in our young people. If we now see how big the problems with the shortage of teachers are, it is inconceivable that the cabinet should not invest in them at the moment. And after a late conversion of a number of parties, I will also say with a big wink to my left-wing colleagues, here there is a majority in favour of abolishing the debt system. A majority here in the Chamber, a majority among students and a majority among parents. Everyone wants to get rid of it. We have already heard a number of speakers about it today, and I ask the Prime Minister to stop him from introducing a new form of study funding and not to wait until the next period. A whole generation of students have already been used as guinea pigs, and the experiment has failed. Over the last three years, students' debts have increased by EUR 5 billion. We therefore believe that this generation should be compensated and that we should all get started as soon as possible with the introduction of a new form of study funding, so that students no longer have to go into debt and live unnecessarily with stress at an early age. A large part of the Chamber also wanted to close the nursing homes. Thousands of carers lost their jobs and many elderly people who lost their homes lost their place in an institution. We have always found closing down these nursing homes a bad choice. We have therefore taken everything out of the closet, both within Parliament and beyond, to prevent this. But they didn't, because they're almost all closed now. Now that that is the case, we are not saying that we should go back to the old nursing homes with their long corridors, but we are saying that we should move forward to the health centre. The neighborhood is a small-scale residential initiative where elderly people can live together, with fixed faces, regular colleagues, sufficient staff and fresh food, while it also has a walk-in function for elderly people from the neighborhood who can still live independently, but who do need company or food together. In view of the recent reports that at present 14,000 elderly people are waiting for a place in an institution, just for the clarity: those who are no longer able to make it at home, we really see this as a necessary step to be taken. We did not like the closure of the nursing homes, but at the same time we consider it to be one of the most serious errors of the previous cabinet. We now have the legacy of that. Another legacy of this is that as many as 77,000 healthcare workers have lost their jobs in health care because of these measures. To counter this, we as SP, together with healthcare professionals, have had dozens of actions and debates. Now we have a huge shortage of caregivers and we have to start expensive image campaigns to find enough people. A majority of the House of Representatives previously embraced the principles of our neighbourhood. Some municipalities are already working on it. I think that's a nice step. A nice step towards how a decent old age could look like and a nice step towards how we could organise care for the elderly together. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he's as excited as I am. In addition to caring for our elderly, we also need to take good care of our young people. The deficits in youth care are high. This puts families in need of help on a waiting list for months, and health care workers face a huge workload. It's so high, they stopped massively two weeks ago. It is a unique experience in Dutch history that youth care workers lay down the work. So we're gonna have to sort this out fast. Trust in the rule of law is a great asset, but it is under pressure. Now again following the revelations of RTL News about the trial against Geert Wilders. Officials of the Ministry of Security and Justice seem to have been involved in this individual criminal case. That's not good. Ministers and officials must stay far away from that. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: what has happened here? How is this possible? I would also like to know from the Prime Minister at what point in time he was in any way aware of the substantive interference from or through the Ministry of Justice. Trust in the rule of law also means that people must be able to achieve their rights. We did our own research as SP under 1,200 social lawyers. It showed that 70% of social attorneys are currently considering quitting. They see a growing division. What is the cabinet going to do now to prevent a drain from the social attorney? Not until 2024, as we heard the Minister last, but now! Because if access to justice becomes something for only people with a lot of money, then we get class justice in the Netherlands. We also have serious concerns about police shortages. The people who are ready for our safety are increasingly dealing with aggression. And because there are too few colleagues, the declarations remain on the shelf. We need to invest in enough colleagues and appreciate our police. Of course, from this point on, I would also like to express my sympathy to the family and friends of the victim today in Amsterdam, and thus also to the entire legal profession in the Netherlands. I understood that a large part of the lawyers came to Amsterdam today to be together. I can understand that very well. Support therefore also for this target group. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, justice also means that people are not played out against each other and that colleagues are not made competitors of each other. But that is precisely what is happening in Europe. That is called a 'free market', but a lot of people are not so free there at all. Many people do not go out of their own free will, but they work hundreds of kilometres away from their families because of bitter necessity. Earlier this year, I was in Poland. In Poland much of the work in the greenhouses is done by Ukrainians, far away from home and fireplace. Their children only see and speak via skype. I learned you have real skype villages there. They work for a low wage. They are needed because Polish workers have left for the Netherlands to do the work here, mostly in the greenhouses. Those people live under bad conditions. Very often they live together in a mobile home on a campsite. Often their employer is also their landlord. So standing up for your rights as an employee is gonna be a pain in the ass, 'cause if you lose your job, you lose your home, too. As far as we're concerned, freedom isn't about declaring people outlaw. Solidarity means protecting people's freedom. That is why we come together with the Christian Union with an initiative legislative proposal to lay down conditions for labour migration. Mr President, as you can see, we are making many proposals for greater justice. This has been the subject of the debate today. We will support proposals that build a society based on human dignity, equality and solidarity. That is what we have always done, moreover, on the subject of content. We will help with proposals if that is helpful and if they contribute to the values I have just mentioned. We will also have always done so; you know how we continue to oppose plans that are not just or increase inequality. About a year ago, around this time, we introduced the term "climate justice." I am glad to see that the concept is now quite regularly taken over. After all, everyone wants to pass on a clean world to their children, but the question is: how are we going to do that and where will the bill end up? Are we going to ensure that it reaches the major polluters, who are also responsible for most of the pollution? That can only be done if we do it in a just way and only if we do it together, because why should everyone have to figure this out for themselves? When we once thought, in the context of hygiene and public health, that it was good to build sewers, we didn't say to every household: each for himself; make sure you connect to the sewers. The same applies to natural gas. No, we did that together. That's what we organized together. So let us do it now and let us do it justly. What about, for example, a large investment plan for solar panels? Why isn't the government going to put solar panels on the roofs that are suitable for that? That is three times a profit: people get a better house with a lower energy bill, we contribute to the climate targets and we create additional jobs. As a SP, we would like to take the lead in the development of such ideas. But for today, I would like to raise the question much more as to whether that is not the way we should look at things like this. How can we do it together and how can we do it righteously? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of justice, many pensioners have had a pension for years that does not go up with prices. On top of that, there is now even a risk of a reduction in millions of pensions. You would expect this cabinet to make sure that the purchasing power of pensioners will increase considerably, but the opposite is now apparent. Pensioners can now count on the least purchasing power progress of all groups. It gets worse. The ink of the pension agreement was not yet dry or the new round of discounts hung over millions of people. The promise that pension reductions would be substantially reduced by the pension agreement therefore also seems to be an empty promise, because now it becomes clear not only that most pensions will not only increase with prices, but that it is even worse. If nothing changes, millions of people's pensions will be reduced. The question is therefore also what the Prime Minister intends to do about this. Is he going to let his minister, Minister Koolmees, go ahead and do we really want to reduce those pensions or is he going to intervene? Mr. Chairman. Our Eindhoven city council member Murat was held prisoner in Turkey this year. He was arrested on vacation because he criticized social media. The imprisonment of Murat was, of course, intimidation of Turks who are critical in the Netherlands. Among other things, on the initiative of the SP, the Chamber is now organising a parliamentary interrogation on the funding of religious organisations. Of course, that should also be about the unwanted influence from Turkey. Our Murat got out, and that's great. I would once again like to thank our Foreign Minister for his efforts in this area. But of course there are more Dutch political prisoners in Turkey. What does the Cabinet do to get them out? Mr. Chairman. Tensions between the US and Iran are high, especially after the recent attack on oil installations in Saudi Arabia. President Trump even states with a tweet that the US are "locked and loaded," ready to attack. In Washington, the stakes are clear: there must be another regime, war if necessary. Eighteen years after America's self-appointed 'war on terrorism', a new chapter can be added to this permanent war in the Middle East, a permanent war in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya and elsewhere, which has resulted in hundreds of thousands of deaths, millions of refugees and, above all, even more terrorism. A new war must be prevented. Apart from arms companies, which have already made so much money, no one is waiting for a new war, and certainly not the people of Iran, who are already suffering so much from the conservative power there, who are not so much concerned with human rights. I therefore call on the cabinet today not to do anything that can contribute to tensions there in the region, and I ask the cabinet how it looks at that. Finally, there is something I really want to call upon the cabinet to seek solutions with us. It's been around a few times today. I am referring, among other things, to the problems in the Tax Administration, which lead to great misery in people's lives; think of the whole drama surrounding the childcare allowance. But what about the premium circus at all? These fees for care and rent, for example, should give people in an uncertain financial position more security. But what happens is exactly the opposite. It leads people who are already in an uncertain financial position, often through an uncertain contract, insecure work and therefore insecure income, to find themselves in even more uncertainty. We have to be able to solve that together, don't we? In fact, if you think about it, isn't it bizarre that people who have a full-time job don't get paid enough by their employer to make ends meet, which means that the government has to pay all kinds of fees? Shouldn't these people's wages just have to go up? Shouldn't the burdens, the taxes, for those people just come down so they can get away with their income and not be freaked out by the whole premium circus? We certainly have ideas about this, but for now I ask the Prime Minister if he shares my view that this should be changed. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma also mentioned it in his story: today, but also later, we remember at many times and places that we liberated ourselves with international support 75 years ago: liberated the German occupiers and liberated them from Nazi dictatorship. We put an end to war and oppression, and we started an unprecedented reconstruction in the Netherlands. There is a need for a new perspective, a perspective that builds on this mentality of reconstruction. People are looking for a fairer society, a society in which it is not only about who deserves the most and a structural selfishness, but also about what we can contribute to each other. People are looking for a society in which, of course, everyone is responsible for their own happiness, but in which we also build something together, in which we build something bigger than ourselves: a good future for the next generations, a just world and a perspective of hope. Mr. Chairman. Our party is very keen to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u290	Mrs Marijnissen interrupted me earlier, when she returned to a previous generation of Heermas in this house. I want to do the same thing now. I was just an employee in this house when Father Marijnissen was working on getting the SP out of the groove of "the other side." This went with campaigns of "voice for," but also with a movement towards more community sense and towards a "we." He was one of the first, perhaps the very first, to suggest that there should be a national historical museum. We all know that this has not only been a success in its implementation. But how does Mrs Marijnissen, the SP, look, from that thought, at the thought that father Marijnissen had, at the proposal that I made and that Mr Dijkhoff also made, to give our birth papers, the birth papers of the Netherlands a prominent place, preferably near the parliament? This is a little along the same thought that Mrs Marijnissen's father might have had when he made such a plea at the beginning of this century.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u291	I didn't really expect these fathers to play such a big part in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u292	And the red uncles and kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u293	Red uncles; the whole family passes by. But you're right. Of course, my father wasn't the only one with that national historical museum, they thought about it with a number of people and then they started to do it. But we have been arguing for much longer as SP for much more national historical awareness. Partly, however, not entirely, but partly, this can also be an answer to the questions of today's era, for example on identity issues and the importance of history education. We will be at the front to confirm that. We are willing to think about any initiative that can contribute to that historical awareness, in any way. You yourself referred to the fact that that national historical museum finally broke down in the performance. But it would be mighty nice if we could, at some point, re-launch that initiative. Who knows, that's something we can pick up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u294	Perhaps we can take a first step with the birth of the papers of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u295	My father hasn't been in the Lower House...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u296	That's okay, too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u297	...so I just want to address you directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u298	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u299	There were many recognizable elements in your contribution and a very nice conclusion about the collective in society. It's very recognizable when I think about that society. Indeed, in that collaboration and with each other you come to something much greater than when you only live on yourself and for yourself. There were also very recognizable SP elements in the contribution, with here and there even appreciation for the good steps in the right direction of the cabinet, for example when it comes to burdens and living. There was even an impetus for a tax reform. So there were a lot of interesting elements in it. However, I am curious about the position of the SP when it comes to cooperation with coalition and cabinet. We have heard the reflection of Mr Klaver, who says he wants to be in it differently than he did first. That was: the other one has to lose and I have to win. If you apply that reflection, where is the SP? Can we work together when it comes to these very big themes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u300	Yes, I was just trying to do that in my text a little bit, by saying that we are assessing plans for their degree of justice. That which contributes to greater justice, which combats further inequality, we will support. We are very willing to think with it, to help make those plans even better. That's actually always been our approach, I guess. Of course, I would also like to participate in the reflection round which we all apparently do today, but it is as we have always looked at it: the content first. The same applies where cooperation is concerned. I already announced in the text that we are, of course, looking together to see if we can do something about labour migration. I understand that Mr Jetten is willing to think with me about an effective millionaire tax. Perhaps Mr Heerma would like to join me on the path to taking faster steps to stop the market in, for example, care and living. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u301	That sounds good. Indeed, we are going to put our thoughts on labour migration together on paper. I look forward to it. But there have also been times in recent years when when it became exciting, a dime on its side, the SP finally chose that motion of mistrust and went back into it with a stretched leg. What I sincerely hope is that that beautiful end, that togetherness, put the weight behind it together, indeed sets the tone for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u302	I understand that Mr Segers wishes that, but at the same time you cannot blame us. We are, however, the party here in the Chamber that takes the lead in systemic criticism. I'm really not too bad to acknowledge that when things are moving in the right direction. That is what I find very special about today's debate. We have heard in the input of a number of speakers that, for example, the sacred faith in the market is released as a holy grail for everything. I don't want to be impeccable to the danger that you are. But of course it has been the SP that has been referred to for a very long time as well when it comes to social housing. We are glad that it is moving in the right direction. That will hopefully open up new doors for future cooperation, but you will not blame us for going in the wrong direction when we have seen it go in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u303	I do hope that the SP will continue to support the resistance, the King's resistance call. After all, if there are any unpleasant things or irresponsible things happening in the cabinet, then we certainly have to go against them as opposition parties rather than trying to become a tolerated party through all kinds of negotiations. What is triggering me to get the microphone here is that you said that the SP is leading the way in system criticism We know the SP, of course, especially when it comes to the discussion or the sharing of what we all deserve and how we are going to tackle poverty. But we see that today's challenges are also about growth fixation on the economy: national income must continue to grow to provide prosperity for everyone. We also see that this is a problem. The planet is not growing and we are creating sustainability problems. I would very much like to know whether the SP with the Animal Party believes that we should rethink this fixation on economic growth. Shouldn't the government's growth agenda be about how we get more national income, but more about: how can we develop the economy so that we have it socially well for each other, but that within the range of what the earth can handle, of what our environment can continue to produce and consume?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u304	I would like to come back very briefly to what Mrs Thieme started with: it tolerates. Of course, I didn't take the word for it. All I said... I was asked to reflect in the reflection round on how we do that. I have only tried to say that as a SP, I think we have always been very open in this. We assess plans for their justice and whether they contribute to combating inequality. We don't support good plans, we don't support bad plans. We will continue to do so in the future. So about that. Then your questions about the fixation on the economy. I have also mentioned this in my text. I have mentioned that the growing prosperity of a part of the world at the expense of a very large part of the other world causes major problems around climate, but also, of course, major problems surrounding migration. We can't look away from that. Of course, it fits with a system-critical party. Of course, that doesn't... For the sake of clarity, we are not against capital, we are not against money. I'm not against making money. In fact, I would like everyone to know that he can make a lot of money and that he will be very, very happy. Of course. But we have to make sure that we do it together and we have to make sure that we do it justly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u305	Mrs Thieme, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u306	Sure. I referred, of course, to previous contributions from parties that are currently very badly needed in the Upper House and in which you discover some kind of constructive attitude. It is very good to work together, but there must of course remain a critical mass here in the Chamber, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u307	You can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u308	So let's do that. But that is getting smaller, as the parties have all become similar. In that sense, I agree with Mr Wilders. Anyway, on the issue of economic growth. That is good to hear, because the SP in recent years that I have experienced the SP is also very strong on that economic growth as the indicator of whether it is going well or not, whether we can get it better and whether we can divide the cake better together. I think that we need to establish that we cannot continue to grow indefinitely, but that we simply need to ensure that the distribution gets better. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u309	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u311	I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u312	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the family and relatives of lawyer Wiersum, who was shot in Amsterdam this morning in a very cowardly manner. If we can believe the first reports, this is an attack on our rule of law. In addition, not only key witnesses, but also lawyers who assist people in criminal matters, life is no longer certain. I thank the Minister for the letter he sent to the Chamber today. I trust that everything will be done to get the bottom of this. Mr. Chairman. The General Reviews of a coalition party leader usually have a fixed pattern. The results achieved by the coalition are proudly listed, the opposition is told that much has already been done and a single member of the cabinet may even get a feather in the hat. But this always happens with the warning that there is still a lot of work to be done. Am I gonna do all that differently tonight? This is my first time, so I'm gonna try, but I don't know if I can totally resist the temptation. What I do know is that I find this debate so far a relief from the general political considerations we have had in previous years. It is a debate on content and a debate that is being held with respect. It is sometimes hard on the content, but in a way that I think it is pleasant for people at home to follow. It's a quiet and orderly debate. Normally, that is not a form that my group, which is in a radical tradition, is very much in line with. But today, I'm happy about that. We're like the Netherlands in the eye of a world storm. The United States and China are conducting a reckless trade war, Russia is raging in the backyard of our European neighbours and the director of Brexit deserves an Oscar for the best script of a horror film. Yes, here in the Netherlands there may also be a breeze in the eye of that world storm. The boreal owls, outgoing MPs and test balloons fly around you every now and then. Mr Baudet sometimes talks about the debris of our society, but look what we have achieved together over the past year. Our pension system has been saved for the future, partly thanks to cooperation between coalition, the Labour Party and GroenLinks. The Netherlands has the first concrete climate plan in the world, thanks to the efforts of nature organisations and companies. We have a children's pardon, so fled, rooted children can stay here in the Netherlands, thanks to a courageous step by the CDA. Businesses are going to pay for citizens' relief in the coming year, thanks to a flexible turn of the VVD, and even large companies like Shell are now simply going to pay income tax, thanks to Bart Snels' proposal. Mr. Chairman. You see, I've done it now. Nevertheless, I could not resist the temptation to list some of the great successes of the past year, but to the people in trade-K I say: I do that a little for you too. Because in recent weeks, polls have shown that you are more popular than ever and not just among the voters of the coalition groups. Even the voters of Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver want you to finish the job for the time being. There is only work to be done by Mrs Thieme's constituents, but you know that my group has been working hard on this since last week. I have been chairman of the political groups for almost a year now and after a good period of work these are my first general considerations. I must say that I am doing it with great pleasure and with less tension than my first interview with Frits Wester. Of all the 30s who are in this Chamber and who are allowed to take part in this debate, I am still close to 20. That might explain the energetic start of my group after the summer. That has caused some discomfort here and there. I can't deny that. I also think that is a nice compliment, because for me politics is not just about the daily indignation, the witty tweet or the perfect quote in the eight-hour journal. Politics for me is more than calmly managing and a little bit more in purchasing power and policy frameworks. As far as I am concerned, politics is there to avoid the major issues and to dare to raise them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u313	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u314	I can go on for a while, if you'd like. My introduction is a little shorter than Mr. Heerma. If I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u315	Yes, you finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u316	Thank you. Politics is therefore there to avoid the major issues. As far as I am concerned, these are issues of life and death, as Pia Dijkstra does with her own-initiative proposal on completed life. These are issues relating to equal opportunities and emancipation, such as Vera Bergkamp's plea for a temporary female quota, or the simple recognition today in this debate that we do not have national solutions to international problems and that European cooperation does not weaken us, but strengthens us. Sometimes these big questions also come a little unsolicited and unexpectedly at us, as is the case now. In order to protect nature, we need to drastically reduce nitrogen emissions, but the question is how. Do we want to build fewer houses in the coming years? Do we want less nature? Do we want a ruse? Do we want to weigh fewer trains or less? Or do we want less cattle? My group made a clear choice in this last week. We want to halve the livestock in the Netherlands to enable the construction of homes for young families and start-ups. From piglets to building. At the same time, I say that the government must also help farmers to make the transition to sustainable agriculture and offer their perspective. And yes, that sometimes leads to inconvenience, but I challenge anyone who criticizes it to make a choice of their own. My group has made that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u317	I like that everyone is giving reviews of this debate so far, but I think it is also about political choices and ideological differences. Mr Jetten is the group chairman of a party which supports this cabinet. I'd like to invite him to adjust course and I don't think it'll surprise him at what point. The cabinet intends to spend less on education next year than this year. As a percentage of the national product, the education budget is almost one percent lower. The beta scientists need more money, but why should it be at the expense of the alpha, gamma and medical scientists? The lack of teachers threatens the equality of opportunity that Jetten mentioned earlier and our economic future. It actually threatens the optimism of the Netherlands. My question to Mr Jetten is: can we ensure today and tomorrow that the General Reviews are more than a self-congratulation on the debate, by ensuring that more money goes there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u318	If I have listened to the debate so far, the lack of teachers is right to make a pressing point. My dad's been a teacher his whole life. He retired a few months ago. I talked to him about that profession, which he has worked with great pride for over 40 years. He always outlined to me the increased workload of the past few years and how much time you have spent as a teacher on all kinds of red tape, while you actually want to be busy preparing lessons and guiding individual students, and also to assist them outside the classroom if necessary. But teachers, all those men and women who enjoy that profession, have had far too little time in recent years. We all in this Chamber haven't recognized that problem for too long. If you go back to our election programs, then parties like yours and mine did withdraw money for education, but a huge investment in teacher salaries actually didn't appear in any election program. I am very pleased that, in the formation period with the four forming coalition parties and the then outgoing cabinet, we have already been able to take a first step towards reducing that wage gap. I am also pleased that the cabinet has released some 333 million, rising to 430 million structurally, in order to further reduce this workload for teachers. But with you I was shocked again last summer by reports that there are schools in the Netherlands where classes started this school year without a teacher being able to stand in front of the classroom, that there are schools that are considering teaching one day less in the week, and that there are arguments that maybe even raise the age from 4 to 5 years. That's not what you and I want. You and I want education to be the engine of equality of opportunity. I therefore fully agree with everyone who has spoken about this earlier today. The main appeal to the cabinet in this debate is: cabinet, get to work with that lack of teachers and get involved in the discussion between teachers and trade unions about a new collective agreement for primary education. If Minister Slob for Primary Education comes back to us at some point with the message 'the teachers and the trade unions can come out with each other, with a more modern collective agreement and better salaries for teachers, but then we as the government must also put extra money on it', that is absolutely up to me. I also hope that the cabinet, having heard the debate so far, will address the shortage of teachers in detail tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u319	It's nice that you can talk to me about that. We already know the answer: money is needed. That pay gap is causing a huge backlog. Find out why the teacher shortage in primary education is so much greater than in secondary education. So we're gonna need money. The good news is, it's here. The cabinet proposes to deposit 3.4 billion into the treasury, with negative interest. We can also provide all kinds of other cover. The money's here. They're still looking for ideas for a fund, but the money's here. It is therefore a question of political will. I have heard you clearly: we have this political will in common. Perhaps then we can, in the best tradition of your predecessor, who recorded it, albeit quietly, often for the education he did a bit behind the scenes; it is good to name that once, Mr. Pechtold, these General Reviews ensure that there is money for the education, because we know it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u320	I would like to go back to the beginning of Mr Jetten's contribution. He listed a number of things. He said we got off to a good start after the summer recess. I can't deny that. It didn't quite escape me either. It is important that you do this very carefully, first of all, of course, with regard to farmers. These are family businesses that have been working in the same place for generations. It's kind of spicy to say to those people every morning, "Oh, man, it could be over. But I would like to talk about an even more sensitive subject, namely life completed. That came out in the same sadness. That is a subject that we have very different views on, which made it very difficult to find a passable path in this respect. What we agreed on, among other things, is this. After that discussion about completed life, which we have calmed for a moment, we said: it is extremely important to see what the question behind the question is, the need behind the question. Who are they who say: my life is actually finished; I am healthy in body and body, but still want to put an end to it? We said we want to know who they are. If you are going to announce that you are going to submit a legislative proposal in any case, then I am genuinely curious whether the D66 Group is interested in the outcome of that investigation, in the search for the people behind the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u321	The answer to that is actually very brief: yes. The research carried out by Minister Hugo de Jonge will hopefully provide insights into how we can improve our legislative proposal. But D66 has also received a lot of messages in recent months from people who approach us and say: "Of course there must be attention to getting older worthy, of course. It is also a good thing that agreement has been reached on this in the coalition agreement. But when it comes to dignified life, can I please decide for myself how I can die worthy if I think my life is complete?" That is not a subject that we should be frivolous about. Nor is it a subject in which I think we are going to drive the initiative proposal through both chambers in a few weeks. It will trigger a lot of social debate and it will bring emotional debates here in the Chamber. This is also a part of issues that deal with such difficult issues as life and death, but it is my firm conviction and colleague Pia Dijkstra that we in this country should not only be aware of dignified ageing but also of dying worthyly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u322	I know that it is emotional on both sides, that it is very sensitive on both sides and that we have very strong views on this. Somewhere there is also, mirrored, a recognition, but then it is all the more important to do justice to reality. For us it is indeed not a passable way to say, when someone says that his life is completed without physical or other suffering, that aid to suicide is then possible. All these professions and the Schnabel Committee say: do not do it, because the risks are too great; the negative impact on people who are vulnerable is too risky. People in the professions who are very close to that bed say, "Don't do it." Is there any scenario that the research will produce something and that in that research something will become visible which the D66 Group says: we are reconsidering it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u323	To be perfectly honest, I don't expect that. I do not expect us to return to that position. I can imagine that with the investigation, but also with all the discussions we have with experts in the Netherlands but also abroad, we will be able to look into how euthanasia legislation is now organized there to get ideas on how the legislative proposal can get even better guarantees, so that it cannot be abused. But our starting point is the people who appeal to us and who say: my life is finished, I don't see any more ways to continue my life in a dignified way and I don't want to focus on all kinds of ways to end my life that you and I think aren't human ways to die; I want to be able to decide on that end of life in a dignified way myself. Mr Segers knows that we have agreed with each other in the coalition agreement on a study that is being carried out; we have also discussed this with each other in recent weeks. We will take that investigation very seriously, but there is no doubt that D66 wants to stand up for worthy death.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u324	Finally. I know that we are fundamentally different and that we will remain different in this. But the Schnabel Committee, which has looked at this long and hard, and many professionals who are close to that bed, say: don't do it. All these opinions point that way. Imagine from that investigation into that group, to the question of who this is about, what became clear earlier, more in the casuistic atmosphere, namely that there is always a layered question, that behind the question "I would like to die" is always another need and that sometimes people say "I don't want to live this life," and suppose that we could help in another way and that it is much more complicated, then my compelling appeal to the D66 Group would be to take that investigation seriously and let those facts work on themselves. Anyway, we're talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u325	I am not denying the layering of the question outlined by Mr Segers, but I would like to suggest far from it that this will be a legislative proposal that will allow people who report for completed life to draw some sort of number from the register and that we will organise it for you. No, of course not. I also want people to talk to people who ask for help and to see what the situation is and whether there really is a completed life. We are going to find that very carefully, but if you come to that conclusion through those conversations with people and if those people themselves come to the conclusion that because of loneliness, because everyone around them has already fallen away or for whatever reason their lives have been completed, then I also want to leave open the option for them that they can die in a dignified way. To be honest, I also think that just the fact that you can have that conversation and that the possibility of a completed life is on the table is going to give a lot of people a rest, because they know that they also have a degree of self-determination at the end of their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u326	Indeed, I noticed how D66 came out of this summer. I'd say keep up the good work. A nice proposal on how to reduce intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands, even when it comes to the legislative proposal, because you are still looking for that debate. Actually, I was expecting another one. We had a debate on the climate agreement and on Urgenda before the summer. The Urgenda objective is not being met. That's what it turns out to be. At that time we agreed that the government should come to the budget in the autumn with new proposals. I don't read that one. What are D66's proposals to get us that Urgenda pronunciation anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u327	Indeed, we concluded that historic climate agreement before the summer, following the historic climate law that we have led through both chambers with a lot of parties. This political year is the year of implementation. The cabinet will have to make a lot of legislative proposals and implement a lot of legislation to actually reduce CO emissions. We set the target for 2030 and 2050. Mr Klaver rightly points out, however, that the judgment of the judge in the Urgenda judgment is that, in the short term too, we need to reduce CO emissions considerably. At the end of this year, a ruling from our highest court will follow. Before the summer, I myself have often indicated that the authorities must also comply with judgments of the courts. I am very pleased with the suggestion of the people behind Urgenda. They have put forward some 40 proposals to reduce CO emissions faster than the cabinet has proposed. The Minister for Climate has promised us that he will come forward with a response to all these 40 proposals this autumn. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna do what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u328	Before the summer, we debated, and then we said: at Princess's Day, we have to settle this, because it will require additional measures. I've been hearing it since 2018. Every time it is: no, wait for the Climate Agreement. The climate agreement says: let's wait a little longer for the latest figures from the Planbureau. Then the latest figures from the Planning Bureau are there and then it's: you know what, we wait until Princess Day. And now I hear: we're almost there. We have 74 days left, so somewhere in October or November we will hear what additional measures the cabinet is taking. What are the choices the D66 Group wants to make? You are doing it in the field of intensive livestock farming and what we can do with nitrogen. You're talking about the completed life. I'm asking, what are you going to do to get that Urgenda pronunciation? We've got 74 days till it's 2020. This way, with moving forward, we're not getting there. What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u329	We have until 31 December 2020 to achieve that goal. That is not a very long term either. I share that with Mr Klaver. As far as I'm concerned, we combine things. That Climate Agreement is super ambitious with a halving of CO emissions. You can see what measures from the Climate Agreement you can bring forward. The nitrogen crisis will also force us to make difficult choices in the coming months, which will help us to reach the Urgenda judgment. We should not pretend that nothing has happened at all, because at the beginning of this year the cabinet announced some 500 million in measures under Urgenda, including accelerated closure of coal power stations, very sensible measures as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u330	That's not an answer to my question. It's a bit like the question of what we're going to eat tonight, while you keep philosophizing with each other about what all that can be: pasta, pancakes, fries, whatever you like. It's about making a choice. And there's a tough deadline. You're right, at the end of 2020. That's the point. But that's just over a year. Then don't tell me now what all the options we can choose from are. Then it's about making a choice. I know that halving agriculture would make a very important contribution, as would the closure of additional coal-fired power stations. What do you want, Mr. Jetten? It's not about what's possible. What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u331	I have said it many times in debates with Mr Klaver. All those points he mentions are open to me. We have asked the Cabinet to come forward with proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u332	Okay, let's finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u333	Finally. We just roll the ball forward again, because we still have 74 days until 2020, so we have all the time. When is the deadline for the cabinet to come forward with concrete proposals for the Urgenda ruling this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u334	I don't know what date the minister promised us last time. We had this debate in July and then Minister Wiebes of Climate promised us that he would give a substantive response to the 40 points of Urgenda. Then we can choose as a chamber what it takes to get the Urgenda judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u335	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u336	Then I'll go to Mrs Thieme's. Or Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u337	I am from the ladies' first school and give the floor to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u338	It is very good to hear that in the coming period D66 wants to focus on the emancipation of women again and that we can look forward to a legislative proposal from her on clear quotas for women. That's very good; we support D66 in that. And I'm glad that D66 wants to make the voters of the Party happy for the Animals. The reason why I want to sit in the Chamber is also precisely that other parties are cutting us off by coming up with proposals of this kind. However, it is because of the nitrogen crisis that D66 comes with a reduction in the number of farm animals, because we can no longer do otherwise; everything is locked. Didn't D66 have retroactive regrets about having voted for that CDA and PvdA ruse ten years ago to circumvent those nitrogen rules with the PAS?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u339	I have to admit that I find this a difficult question to answer, because I wasn't even a councilman in Nijmegen at the time. This wasn't a question I was concerned with. What I have realized over the past few months is that the system around the PAS just doesn't work and that it is a wake-up call that our system has simply jammed. That's what I just said. This is not only because of nitrogen, but also because of particulate matter and its effects on public health. Think about the goat farms. I grew up in Brabant myself and have relatives with Q fever. These are all the consequences of an out of control system The farmers' families who have to do so are also trapped in it. They simply cannot come out because they also have to earn a living. I do not blame them at all; it is mainly self-reflection, reflection on the role of the government. I am proud that we, as D66 in the coalition agreement and in the climate agreement, managed to move towards sustainable agriculture and that there is room for a warm clean-up. In my view, this nitrogen statement is merely an incentive to speed up this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u340	I'll catch up with Mr. Jetten. That Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, so those rules around nitrogen to prevent us from affecting nature with our activities, was a ruse. It was not some measure that now, ten years later, is not working. The reason I ask what Mr Jetten thinks of this and whether he is ashamed to look back on it as chairman of the D66 group is that, after the Council of State ruling, we immediately heard from Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen that she was looking for a ruse, so a ruse following a ruse that had failed. I'd really like to know from D66 if she's gonna accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u341	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u342	Good. A committee is now being set up, typically in The Hague, to look at how to deal with the nitrogen crisis, among other things: the Remkes Committee. Isn't that a typical Hague way of getting behind the scenes again with all kinds of tricks and measures that no one is wise about anymore and that ultimately doesn't change anything? Will D66 stand firm when it comes to choosing less farm animals to give room for the things that are really needed in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u343	My group made a very clear choice at that time, I think. And here the difference between D66 and the Party for the Animals is immediately clear. Setting up a committee could put Mrs Thieme away as a way of dealing with problems in The Hague, but I would like to point out to her that we have been able to take huge steps in the area of climate over the last six months, thanks to the fact that we have sought common principles, to support them. As a result, with a very broad coalition in this Chamber, we have been able to support that climate policy. I don't think we're gonna find a solution from the nitrogen bypass if we just stick around in the trenches. We need to see how together we can offer perspective to those farmers and how we can put the building of additional homes in one place. That's my commitment for the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u344	I agree with Mr Klaver, who has just shown in his interrupting debate with Mr Jetten that they are fine words, also about the Climate Agreement, and that they are going to respect the judgment of the judge on the Urgenda issue, but that it ultimately results in intentions, committees and polling and that nothing happens in the end. Therefore, in order to prevent this nitrogen crisis from continuing and to avoid achieving the climate targets raised in the Urgenda case, we ask the House to do butter with the fish and to clarify what D66 is going to demand from this cabinet rather than let it be driven with a rag because the cabinet is going to investigate again or consider what they could do in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u345	I think Mrs Thieme has chosen a wrong opponent in this debate, because we find each other in the plea to deal with the bio-industry in a very different way. That is a very clear choice that my group has made over the past week, because we are putting the building of houses in one place. Over the next few weeks, we will have to keep the pressure on the cabinet and on everyone who is talking about it high in order not to come up with a ruse, but with a real package to reduce nitrogen emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u346	Good. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u347	Of course. You will really find us on your side with regard to your plan, but it is also about how much pressure the cabinet is going to put on to actually take other steps. That's what I'm worried about, and I just wanted to put it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u348	You did. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u349	I'd like to go back to the theme of education. It has already been said that 150 million will go from education next year. Not long ago it was announced that your Minister Kaag would give 100 million to Rihanna for a development aid project. Don't you make all the wrong choices, Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u350	I am always surprised that Mr Baudet is not prepared to invest in developing countries, because he is worried about migration in our direction. One of the reasons people move away is because they have no perspective in the country where they live. I am proud that this cabinet, led by Minister Kaag, dares to invest in countries with a large, young population that have no prospects there. By investing in education there, we ensure that people can stay in their own country and help build up. That should sound like music to you, Mr. Baudet. On the contrary, you should be a strong supporter of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u351	I note with conviction that Mr Jetten is defending here that less money goes to Dutch education and that this money must go to education or other things in Africa. That is, in itself, serious enough. D66 cannot in any way call itself the education party of the Netherlands. Perhaps the education party of Africa, but not the education party of the Netherlands. There's a second problem. Apparently, he thinks that people who earn more money or are more educated, as it is called, will be less inclined to go to Europe. The facts prove otherwise. It's not true. Just when people are going to make money, they have the opportunity to travel to Europe. Today there was a new world record in terms of the number of Africans who have travelled to Europe and are all on Greek islands. Those people who arrive there are all middle-class or lower middle-class people. It's people who have money, because they can pay those smugglers. So apart from the fact that you make totally wrong choices, Dutch education doesn't have money, African education does: wrong priorities, it is also based on a completely wrong reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u352	This cabinet has allocated 1.9 billion extra to education and science over this period of government. Over the next few years, we will spend 300 million on reducing working pressure. We invest in shrinking areas, in secondary education. We invest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u353	150 million off, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u354	They are all investments that aim to give children in the Netherlands the chance to get the best out of themselves. And yes, this is also an international cabinet. A cabinet that believes that by staying in the European Union, you can increase prosperity for the Netherlands and, by staying in the European Union, guard the external borders of our continent. This is also a cabinet with an international outlook that dares to invest in countries where people have a little less good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u355	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u356	When I hear Mr Baudet like that, he actually says: let them die there in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u357	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u358	Mr Jetten brings in all kinds of things that have nothing to do with it, such as the European Union. It's very simple: 150 million off for Dutch education next year and 100 million to Africa, apparently for schools there. That's the wrong choice. The Forum for Democracy does not support that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u359	You did...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u360	I think it is very good that people in the Netherlands see this choice clearly presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u361	Mr Jetten and I both took advantage of the scholarship. That is a subject we have not yet discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u362	Will you come back to that, Mr. Jetten? Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u363	I was actually very happy to see the D66's retrograde movements when it came to the antisocial loan system. It was a law born of need at the time. The D66 Group would now be looking for ways to shape that differently. I would like to ask Mr Jetten what these possibilities are. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u364	Mr Kuzu rightly says that the social loan system was born out of need at the time. It was a cabinet of VVD and Labour Party that wanted to make the switch from the basic grant to the social loan system. Several parties supported this, including D66. We then supported this on the condition that the proceeds from abolishing the basic grant were used for quality improvements in education and that the money remained in education. That was an important precondition for us at the time. Lately, you've been seeing some developments. Firstly, there is the question of whether the money from the basic grant has actually come to the right place, namely quality in higher education. Secondly, what are the effects of the social loan system on access to higher education? For D66 it is important that anyone in this country who wants to study should be able to do so. There should be no unnecessary threshold, with all kinds of selection criteria and binding study advice. He has to be able to pay for the study. In recent weeks we have seen in the first figures that the influx into higher education with the social loan system has not actually decreased. You could say that things are going quite well, but we all know that there are certain groups that cannot get away with the supplementary grant. So, as far as I am concerned, the quest with the Minister is in the near future whether we can increase the supplementary grant and whether we can increase the target groups that claim it, so that more young people who are now excluded choose to enter higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u365	Exactly one of the issues facing many students is stress and performance pressure. They're caused by the loan system. I think this is a little too non-binding, especially for a coalition party that also has government responsibility and even provides the Minister of Education. I would therefore like to ask Mr Jetten if he can be more specific. We have just had a debate with Mr Heerma. He indicated: in my election programme it was so, but in the coming period we need to talk about it. I would like to know very specifically from Mr Jetten: what is your commitment on this point? So you don't want the basic scholarship as it used to be and what you and I have been able to enjoy, but something else. What exactly is that "something else"? What will be your bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u366	Mr Jetten, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u367	It's very simple. That commitment is, as I just said, to see whether the supplementary grant should be raised and whether more target groups can make use of it. I'm not gonna promise the old basic scholarship is coming back. The same amount was paid to each student. There were a lot of students for whom that amount was insufficient. They couldn't afford their tuition and room rent. For a very large group of students, the old basic grant was also unnecessary, because the young man on the dock paid for the study of the future lawyer. I want to keep us from going back to that unfair system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u368	It is exactly as Mr Jetten says: "We are going to look at each other or...". That's exactly what I mean by the fact that D66 is a government party, a coalition party. As far as I am concerned, it should be a little more specific. Your party and my party are known to appeal to many young people: seven out of ten young people and students are opposed. I would therefore like to see you not only look at what can be better, but also give concrete form to your plans in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u369	Mr President, very briefly. As far as I am concerned, we certainly do not have to wait for everyone to write their election programmes. If we can get out of here in the next two years, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u370	Look. Shortly, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u371	We are seeing a shift in the plans of the cabinet of social sciences and humanities to technology. That is what I am concerned about, because we need to invest in the broad development of higher education and scientific research. I see that the cabinet is about to consider a broad investment agenda. Wouldn't it be good to put that shift on hold until we know what we're going to do with that investment agenda? I can just imagine that means extra investment in the science and technology studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u372	Look, you can make short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u373	I would actually like to thank Mr Klaver for this question. Recently, a little sentiment has emerged that beta and technique are better than alpha and gamma. I think that is a very wrong picture, because we have a number of very big challenges in the years to come. Think, for example, of the fact that all areas of the Groningen gas go off. You need both university technicians and boys and girls from the MBOs who can make the gas transition in those homes. But you also need people from the alpha and gamma sciences to think about how you shape such a transition in the neighborhood in a good way. You need planners to think about how to do it properly. I fully agree with Mr Klaver that we really need to stop the contradiction between beta and technology on the one hand and alpha and gamma on the other. As far as I am concerned, the investment agenda announced by the cabinet is precisely one of those major challenges. I hope that universities, colleges, rocks and companies will all go to the cabinet with very concrete proposals in the coming period. Not a vague investment fund where we won't hear back for years. If we can now invest in education, knowledge and innovation, we must do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u374	You always talk about the short questions, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u375	A short answer is also an art.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u376	That's up to you, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u377	This is a subject that matters to both of us, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u378	Mr Jetten says that we should not create a contradiction between the humanities, social sciences and the technical sciences, but that is what is happening. It does happen when you say: we're going to take the money away from one study and transfer it to another study. What I am actually saying here is: let us stop doing so, put that on hold and do not go on doing so, because we need to decide in the coming period what we are going to invest in. This means that extra money could also be made available for this education. And before we know it, we're going to set up all kinds of shifts that aren't necessary at all. Does Mr Jetten agree with me? Can we find a way together that this doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u379	I am always open to good suggestions, but I have not seen any extra money for higher education in the counter-budget of the Left. However, I have seen that the cabinet has released money in the Millions Note, some 41 million, to absorb that shift and to prevent it from getting in a lot of trouble in the first few years. If we can find a good solution for the years after that, I am sure I am open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u380	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u381	I can see that, in fact, funds have been arranged for the first year, but this is precisely the contradiction that we are creating between humanities and social sciences on the one hand and technical and beta studies on the other. We must remove this contradiction; it does not have to be there. In the coming period, money will be made available to invest in scientific research. It would be a real shame for us to push this change through in the budget now, because it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u382	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u383	I do not think that pushing through is the issue. I am pleased that in recent months the Minister for Higher Education has come up with some more on-speaking terms with all those administrators in higher education. We all want good and accessible higher education, regardless of the currents. Mr. Chairman. I started my story by saying that politics is there for the big choices. I'm 32. Hopefully, I will be able to experience the future a little longer than most people in trade union K, and that is certainly true for the youngest generation who will soon return to the streets to protest for the protection of our planet. That is why I do not give a lecture on standstill and preservation. As far as I'm concerned, we're not looking at the shoes, we're looking at the horizon. The following questions then arise in me. How many more children have to get asthma before we seriously work on clean air? How many children still have to start school with a language disadvantage before we finally make a fist for fair opportunities? How many American companies still have to violate our privacy before we take it hard? How many animals have to burn alive in the stable before we realize that this is no longer possible with the bio-industry? How long can we look away from racism before we say: this is the Netherlands and this is the 21st century? And how many male prime ministers do we have to see pull over before there's a woman at the helm in box K? If you have questions like this working on you and you look at the history of the Netherlands, it teaches us that we Dutch people can answer the big questions at crucial moments. After the Second World War, we were at the cradle of the European Union. When the dikes broke during the flood disaster, we built the Delta Works. When new energy sources emerged in the 1960s, we switched from coal to gas in just five years. And now we're back at such a crucial moment. The economy of the past is crumbling. From Rotterdam to the Tweede Maasvlakte lies about 40 kilometers of petrochemicals that will have to reinvent themselves. We are finally going to stop the gas extraction in Groningen, which means that we have to heat our houses in a different way. We must therefore seek a new prosperity. A new economy in which generations after us can say: we get it at least as good as the generations before us. That is why I propose with Mr Segers to introduce a generation test so that we can assess our policy on the impact it has on the younger generations next to us. It's all about the work now. Do we choose conservation or optimism and investment? D66 wants to invest, invest in the curiosity of Eindhoven, Delft's biotechnology, Rotterdam's energy, Maastricht's farm meat, Wageningen's potatoes, Leiden's discoveries and Amsterdam's branie. Now is the time to take action. Because if we're paid to borrow money, we have to invest in the future. As the Netherlands, we are not a society of pensioners, but of pioneers. It is a good thing that the cabinet is now aware of this and has adapted the budgetary rules in order to be able to invest in the coming years. But I also say to trade union K: that money will have to go quickly to concrete projects. So, not talking about funds for years, but quickly getting to work on the concrete plans that lie ahead. I myself think, when it comes to sustainable mobility, on the North/South line that you can travel to Schiphol or to connect the Randstad to the light rail. But I am also thinking of investing in vocational education, science, knowledge and innovation for tomorrow's start-ups and scale-ups. Let it be the Netherlands where the first electric planes take off. Have artificial intelligence open new doors for groundbreaking cancer research. And map the health of our planet with space sensors. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he can promise that the cabinet will have the investment agenda ready by the end of this year, so that we can start investing next year and roll the money. Because, yes, there are limits to growth - that is what the nitrogen crisis has made clear to us once again - but sometimes smart is stronger than big. David defeated Goliath and Ajax defeated Juventus and even Real Madrid, so it is possible. But let's start now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u384	Let us not now ratify CETA. Because all these D66 plans and all those dreams that Mr Jetten is making here, and many of them I share, cannot happen if we are to ratify the Free Trade Agreement with Canada this year. Because what do we see? What do we read in the paper? That Vermilion, a gas mining company, is already suing the state of France in connection with its climbing measures. If we now ratify CETA, investment protection will also apply to the investment that Vermilion has made here at the gas extraction plant in Groningen. I heard Mr Jetten say that the extraction of gas in Groningen should be reduced. Hey, hey, finally. He says it has to stop. After all the actions of worried Groningers, the cabinet, together with the Chamber, said: we are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u385	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u386	But it's gonna be in the First Chamber soon. Vermilion, that American company, has already said that if it is adopted in the First Chamber, the State can face a lawsuit. We need to stop CETA. Does D66 agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u387	No. I mentioned the US-China trade war in my introduction. It also puts pressure on our prosperity. So we have to choose our friends in that international playing field. Then I choose a progressive Prime Minister of Canada as my friend to make better international agreements on trade and trade agreements that have a higher standard when it comes to, for example, nature and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u388	A correction: I'm talking about the Canadian company Vermilion. This is a treaty, CETA, which has already entered into force, with an investment protection clause in it. That means that Vermilion, probably with great success, will be able to claim investment protection and claim hundreds of millions of euros, because we are going to stop gas extraction in Groningen. CETA is therefore crucial to ensure that Vermilion receives or does not receive those hundreds of millions of euros. So I ask again the question to D66: is D66 CETA going to stop and not ratify this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u389	I believe that a trade agreement with Canada, which brings the standards of trade agreements back to the world, is urgently needed at a time when Trump and China are destroying our world trade with a reckless trade war.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u390	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u391	Investment protection in CETA allows companies like Vermilion to file claims with the Dutch state. We shouldn't want that, should we? Then we must say that we are not going to ratify CETA because it means that we are going to have to pay hundreds of millions of euros to Vermilion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u392	Again, I see the trade agreements with Canada as a way of showing worldwide that international trade is crucial to increase our prosperity. And yes, there will always be points in all these trade agreements that can be better. But this really puts the standards higher than most of the trade agreements we already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u393	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u394	If we are to create the new economy, it must offer opportunities for everyone. We thought for too long that more prosperity would be good. But the fruits of economic growth do not reach everyone. The inequality is growing. I see that happening around me, too. I was lucky myself. As a young executive at ProRail, I was allowed to take all kinds of opportunities and get certain with a fixed contract, but at the same time I saw how my sister, who works in care, ended flex contract after flex contract. As a result, for her an affordable house and a mortgage for her own store was long away. It belongs to a large group of young people, whether theoretical or practical, who experience enormous pressure: performance pressure, binding study advice, all kinds of unnecessary selection criteria in education. But then there are also uncertain jobs, towering rents and a fierce combination of work and private. How do we give this new generation opportunities and security in the 21st century? We are doing this primarily by dealing with the disaster in the housing market. The security of a roof above your head is not a privilege. That's a right. The measures announced by the cabinet yesterday are therefore a very good step: 2 billion investments to drive housing, to tackle speculators and investors harder and to help start-ups to enter the housing market. When a house is accessible again, people have to be sure that work pays off. The Prime Minister's threat to large companies to remove their tax cuts for next year if wages do not rise did not turn out to be an empty shell. That might have been a little getting used to for all of us. My group is assuming that I have already asked a number of colleagues to say that this warning also applies for 2021. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that an increase of 2.5% is far too low? When work starts to pay, the labour market also needs to balance. People must be able to choose whether they want to work with or without a boss; freedom as choice and not as refuge. But then that freedom must continue to pay off. The cabinet is now reducing the tax differences between self-employed and employees. My group wants a guarantee from the cabinet that the proceeds of this measure will remain with the self-employed. Can the Prime Minister give it to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u395	I have a question about wages. I am pleased to see Mr Jetten at my side today in the plea for higher wages. It is also a good thing that the cabinet will refrain from reducing the tax on profits for at least next year. It's fine to move on to next year. But what I want to ask Mr Jetten is this. We can of course also do something here as a Chamber itself to increase wages, or at least to give them a good boost. We can call on the business community. We can even say, "Fie," if you don't listen, you won't get a reduction in the tax on profits. Fine, but much better is of course that we do something ourselves. In concrete terms, we could raise the minimum wage, because it has a driving effect on the rest of the wages, and that is what we decide here as politics. So my question is: is Mr Jetten prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u396	My main aim is to raise everyone's pay, in line with the call for a 4.5% increase next year. I am not, by definition, opposed to an increase in the minimum wage, but I would also like to give a warning: I want to prevent it from leading to fewer jobs and fewer jobs, because then we have not helped anyone. So I think the most important commitment of you and me is that all wages are going to rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u397	Of course I fully agree with that, but what I find difficult is that there is too much waiting. Business is indeed being called upon. It is now said that you will not get a reduction in the tax on profits, but that wage will have to be increased. But, of course, that doesn't help people. Unfortunately, last year it appeared that half of the Netherlands has not improved in purchasing power. And what does the CBS say? This is mainly because wages do not rise. So I think it is our duty to think here too about what we, as politicians, can do ourselves. Raising the minimum wage would help a lot of people. It also has a driving effect on the rest of the wages. That is something we can do very concretely here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u398	We've been thinking as a coalition. We can do that as politics itself. That is why, on top of what we had already agreed, we have done an additional reduction of some 3 billion, which will improve everyone next year, especially workers. How much can we never predict exactly, but that is a choice that we as a coalition have made: significantly reducing the burden on workers. In doing so, I call, once again, on the business community to take up its responsibilities and to ensure that wages rise significantly next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u399	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u400	Finally, despite all the fine words, I find that too easy. It's nice to see the loads go down. But that was last year and the year before that, of course, also the promise of the cabinet. That's when everyone would get better. Unfortunately, therefore, we have seen that half of the Netherlands did not progress, because wages do not increase. What can politics do? We can raise the minimum wage. We can also choose to give a strong impetus to, to name but a few, public sector salaries, which the government is also indirect about. Those are all things we can do as politics. Then it is not only fine words and an appeal to the business community that I fully agree with, but then we also show that we are really doing something for people. Then we can also guarantee that people have improved at the end of the year, because it is now waiting for a lot of people to see whether wages are actually going up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u401	At the same time, I say that this is a completely different debate from the one we had last year. At that time we were talking about whether or not to abolish the dividend tax. Fortunately, the cabinet has come back to that and we now have a proposal in which the income tax will remain the same next year, so that we can use those revenues for all those hardworking Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u402	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u403	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about a new economy, which should also offer opportunities for everyone. I have just been thinking about education in a few interrupt debates with my fellow Members, but I am going to repeat that in this little block, because I think it is extremely important. Without good education, there will be no equal opportunities for all. Education is a passport for the future. The shortage of teachers that we are seeing today is a social crisis. It is primarily about money, with ongoing negotiations on the collective agreement between school managers and trade unions. I would like to call on the cabinet to look again very carefully at the role that the cabinet can play in facilitating these collective bargaining. As far as I am concerned, this requires all the creativity. I am very happy to hear today that such an appeal is being made by almost all parties. In addition to this collective agreement, however, the cabinet must also look carefully at how the commitment to reducing the workload is working and how we can continue to do so. I was just like a couple of colleagues at the Malieveld event last spring and spoke with a lot of teachers who were very happy with the commitment to work pressure reduction, for example because they could have hired a concierge at school for the first time in years to do all kinds of useful jobs in that school building, so that teachers could focus on preparing and teaching. What more can the cabinet do to reduce the workload and seduce teachers to turn their temporary contracts into fixed contracts, perhaps more hours a week than their current part-time contract? 'Cause we're gonna need all that creativity to solve that teacher shortage. Mr. Chairman. I grew up in a modern, cheerful and multicoloured Netherlands. It was an open and tolerant country of people with all kinds of backgrounds, passports, dreams and ambitions. A country of everyone. But in recent years this openness has gradually become increasingly under pressure. Transgenders refused at Uber experience exclusion. Jews who hear that windows of a meeting place have been thrown in recognize the dark patterns of history. Born and raised Dutch people who are told to fight, recognize those patterns equally well. Conservative politicians have made their earning model of exploiting and stimulating all kinds of unease. For almost 20 years, with every problem, it's been all the balls on every Muslim. Not only newcomers, but also the third and fourth generation are called upon to do so. Those are Dutch, born here, who are distrusted. Because anyone who feels love or loyalty for the land of his or her ancestors, could apparently not be a full Dutchman. Mr. Chairman. This ignores the essence of identity. It's always multiple and layered. I myself am Brabander, Dutch, European, politician, gay, son and Feyenoorder. And all at the same time. And NAC'er, yes, I say to some troubled people in box K. It also misses the essence of Dutchmanship. Because Dutchmanship is not fixed; it is a shared quest that is ongoing continuously. I actually thought it would go another way with the look from the conservative angle. Because five years ago, I read about a young, promising CDA man who turned out to have a more liberal view of identity. He said he was affected abroad by the power of diversity. What happened to that enlightened soul? Now that the same enlightened soul is being tipped off as the future CDA leader, he suddenly expresses himself in gloomy anecdotes about inappropriate migrants. But words like that have consequences in the real world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u404	It's unclear who exactly you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u405	Well, judging from the body language, that's pretty obvious, Mr. Chairman. Well, there are so many crown princes and crown princesses nowadays, it's almost impossible to keep track. Mr. Chairman. We can laugh about it, but those kind of words, those simple anecdotes that come by year after year, have impact in the real world. I am thinking of a friend who was born here in the Netherlands and who was complimented on a job interview that he did speak Dutch very well. That's a simple example, but one out of thousands. Anyone applying for an Arab surname in this country is three times less likely to get that job than someone with a Dutch surname and a criminal record. Three times more likely to have a criminal record than when you have an Arabic-sounding last name. We now have a clear political mission. We must offer a civilised alternative. That alternative consists of a new attitude, a policy that dares to tell the whole story. The story that it is unacceptable when religious extremists indoctrinate children with hatred and that we must act hard against radicalisation. But also that all migrant groups reach a higher level of education than ever before and that new Dutch people not only go to the general practitioner, but also become a general practitioner more and more often. Moreover, all Dutch people, whatever generation, are at home here. I ask the Prime Minister to appear here tomorrow as Prime Minister of all the Dutch and to express his confidence in all those people who have made the Netherlands their home. Will he, on behalf of the cabinet, tell us what he is going to do to remove the last large thresholds for Dutch people with a migration background who are repeatedly refused when applying for an internship or job? Mr. Chairman. Politics is there to ask and answer the big questions. Questions about freedom, equality, tolerance, life and death. But these questions are also about trust in the government, access to the law and the quality of our democracy. Trust in the government begins with the quality of service. Mr Heerma has already spoken about it, but I would actually like to put a question to everyone in trade union K. Which one of you doesn't have a problem with his implementation organization? There are, indeed, very few of them, even no one. This is again something we can happily laugh about, but it is also very painful that many Dutch people, whether they apply for a driving licence, apply for a supplement or have to deal with another agency, do not receive the service we expect from the government. We must quite rightly show ourselves a mirror. This is not because of hard-working people at such a service desk, but because of the way in which we place all kinds of impossible legislation on these implementing organisations. The King devoted very fine words to that yesterday in the eulogy of the throne. My question to the cabinet is: what action does the cabinet take to add to our king's fine words? I am also waiting for the government to act on a part of our rule of law. There are people in this country who have difficulty finding access to justice, people who depend on social law. There's big deficits there. The health of justice is therefore under pressure. There are a lot of social attorneys who are considering quitting their work. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is the Cabinet going to do to solve this challenge? Strengthening the rule of law must also go hand in hand with strengthening our democracy. I look forward to the legislative proposals of Minister Ollongren, following the important work of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. But we in the Chamber do not have to sit on our hands in the future either. We can also do something ourselves, because look at the reality of this debate. Hundreds, if not thousands of officials, have worked hard in recent months to send a very thick package of budgets to our Chamber. We received this last weekend under embargo. A number of colleagues and Members of Parliament have probably been working hard to take up all these documents, and we are already having the debate on them today. Today opposition parties had to file a counter-budget. This shows how uneven the struggle between cabinet and chamber has become in recent years. We are putting ourselves at a disadvantage as a democracy. And fear of public opinion has not been able to express our views on this in recent years. My appeal to the Chamber is: let us take a critical look at the way in which we request debates and table motions, but let us also see how we can strengthen the funding of the States-General so that we can carry out our monitoring task properly. Finally, Mr President. My party went into the cabinet as a progressive motor. The first year seemed to mess it up a bit, but by now we have found the course better and we are getting more and more speed. It is therefore now time to build the Netherlands from 30 years from now. As far as I am concerned, this is actually a kind of Berlin on the Rhine: a place where creativity hangs in the air, where radical new ideas are embraced, where cultures find each other and where the smell of optimism fills the streets. That is the Netherlands as it should be: a diverse, open, dynamic, tolerant, energetic and free country. A land where the cranes pierce the clouds for those much-needed houses. A land where the windmills spin. A country with opportunities, homes and new guarantees for everyone, whether your name is Kajsa, Carola, Khadija or Mark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u406	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u407	Mr. Chairman. I want to start at 7.30 this morning in Amsterdam, where someone was shot in an ordinary street. Someone who was a father and did his job. That has a huge impact. My father was a lawyer until his death. I know Ferdinand Grapperhaus from that corner, too. My little brother's a lawyer. I'm sorry I went into politics. He started with criminal cases and extraditions. I can assure you that the rule of law was a very concrete thing we were talking about, that it is important to use it. The lawyers, whether they're in criminal law or around it, have experienced something that was unimaginable today, namely an assassination attempt on people who work for others, who choose it as a profession. It's a horrible event for this country. On behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to pledge support to the Cabinet to do whatever is necessary to stop this. I think that no one knows exactly what is needed for this today, at least that would be very special, but that it must stop is beyond me. Mr. Chairman. The political season has begun. You can see that today. That's a party to see. People are having visible fun. The best part was that Pieter Heerma laughed so much at his own jokes, that that worked infectiously on all of us. That's what we keep in mind, if I can come up with a good joke. But it's also the beginning of the school year. I have already dealt with what that actually means in my interruptions. What I like in my city, but also in the place where you live, is that at this time of year you will see a new group of road users. Often on a new bike or a second hand bike, but in any case a just too big bike. Almost always with a much too heavy backpack on their backs. With very big eyes full of expectations about what the future will bring very concretely and still a bit swaying in search of the route to high school: the bridge peeps. Do you remember how you felt? The crazy thing is that the parents see those bridge peepers going and can actually see at the same time the baby they had in their arms very recently and also, through the eye hairs, the adult who will be driving there. Most parents also pray that all those motorists, those cyclists and those scooter riders, especially those horrible scooter riders, remember that they used to ride that kind of bike, with a backpack, because of that traffic. Those children, that generation, of course represent our progress. It's the future that bikes there. That raises the question of what progress we are making for these children. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, that must be that they can all make something beautiful of their lives, that they can grow up in a safe country where the good is rewarded, that they can be themselves and that they can discover and use their talents. But we also know that one rides from a poor neighborhood to a school full of problems, while the other rides towards happiness. One can still be a child at home and the other can take care of a sister or brother at home. So can we actually offer any progress to those kids? Can we still do that in a world of tension, of conflict, of trade conflicts, of cynicism and of new authoritarian leaders, in a world where the planet itself might become unviable to those children? Can we still do that? Are we, here in this house, able to talk about real progress? Mr. Chairman. If you can be leader or captain of a movement that has represented social democracy for 125 years, you can derive some optimism and some inspiration from the past. I'd like you to meet Fopkje Kijlstra. I ran into her in a hilarious Volkskrant reportage made in the polling booth in Gorinchem on the day of the European elections. That's where she was interviewed with her son. In the meantime, we've made contact. She is following this debate through television, I understand. The beauty is that when Fopkje was 12, when she was the age of those bridge peeps now, here in The Hague was opened De Bijenkorf, the first. It was full of innovation, to put it in D66 terms. There was something very special: there was the first escalator. That escalator automatically brought people up. You can hardly think of a more powerful symbol of progress. When Fopkje was born, she is now 105 years old. There were no weekends then. Back then, growing old was just like poverty. When she turned 15, the Depression broke out, that last gigantic economic crisis. She and her family went to look in 1933 when the Afsluitdijk was opened. That was a wonder of the world. After the war, children came. After the war Drees came, the reconstruction came. After the war there were better facilities, there was an old age provision. We built a welfare state. If you look through the eyes of Fopkje and you realize what we actually achieved in that century, you can see that that progress is huge. Our predecessors and we have built here together the most beautiful welfare state in the world, with emancipation, with freedom, with upliftment. That progress is phenomenal. By the way, Fopkje Party of Labour votes. She's been doing that her whole life, and she promised me she'd keep doing it her whole life. I hear people smiling, but they have not been in my situation: I know how important every voice is. So I'm counting on you, Fopkje, for years to come. This raises the question of what we can offer for centuries to those bridge peeps. If we don't do something now, it'll be a century of me, me, me and inequality in the world, of stress and of performance pressure. Then it is good to look at the budget that is now before us, the plans of this cabinet, and to take stock of the situation. There is a great deal in that budget to be very happy about. The economy is growing, there are favourable predictions for purchasing power and there are more jobs than ever, and that has been quite different in that century. I therefore believe that it is appropriate, even as leader of the opposition party which knows what it is like to rule, to express thanks here to the hard workers of trade union K for their work. Because it is not always grateful work and there is indeed a lot of hard work. These two days are of course the most beautiful thing that happens to you in a year, but... I'll take a look at box K, but only Wiebes admits, from the looks of it, he's having a hard time. Or is Hoekstra going to dispute that now? There's no fire here. Mr. Chairman. Yet something is wrong, because if you saw the Finance Minister gloating with the briefcase yesterday, you do not understand that there are no rows of people on the streets with flowers, with praises, with compliments for this cabinet and that the fine words and promises do not have that effect on everyone. That has to do with the fact that that promise of progress is not felt. Just when you say you care about middle groups, it often takes something other than the purchasing power story we've heard so far. I think that the wealth that the Netherlands now has is the longest set of budgetary surpluses since 1954, the lowest interest charges since the last century have required. It is not a merit to present a budget surplus if you have no regard for what is going on in society. You're not coming into tomorrow's country with a speech or a lecture yesterday. What has the Cabinet done with this wealth so far? In 40 years, there has been no cabinet with a better financial position than this cabinet. What did they do with that now, if you take stock? They haven't been idle. VAT has been increased. The referendum has been abolished. The power bill was raised. A number of other things did not go through, such as the austerity of the disabled and chronically ill. We talked about the dividend tax. Good things happened, too, I'm sure. I immediately mentioned paternity leave. There was a pension agreement, partly or perhaps mainly thanks to the work of the trade union movement. But as a whole, it's a question of whether you're actually making progress with that, whether you're dealing with the wealth that's there right now. There can be no committee or investigation into a future fund. You're gonna have to do something about that now, because the needs are there. I think that's one of the reasons people get cynical about talking about progress when you close your eyes to what's needed right now. I'm thinking about Merel. She's a violinist, independent. That's great. She just released her second CD. Her career's going well. She works 60 or 70 hours a week, because she has to rehearse a lot. She doesn't really want to figure out what she's making by the hour. Progress there is therefore not a theoretical purchasing power promise. Progress would be to have more certainty, more certainty about what happens if she becomes disabled or ill. Or I'm thinking about André Loorbach. He's here as a guest of the Labour Party. I've met him in Veendam, where he's in his house, and that house is his pride... has a wall full of photos of Elvis, signed and so on. He told me how in the crisis he was fired as an employee of a construction store and tried everything to get back to work. And it didn't work. It didn't work and it didn't. The WW came to its end and he threatened to lose his house, and with it everything he'd worked for. That's the middle group. Now he's back on the job, in the government, in the province of Groningen, but not a permanent job. Progress then is: to provide certainty, to choose for it. Those middle-class people deserve that. With everything that has changed in the economic debate, the structure itself has not changed sufficiently. Prime Minister Rutte has been referred to for ten years, but you can't blame him for that alone. You have to note that we are living in a time when that neoliberal thinking, with the VVD as the largest party, has been dominant in the way we look at this. In that vision, André just didn't take his chances. In that vision, Merel simply works as a free entrepreneur in a sector that is not running well. But we know that's not true. We know that there is actually a need for a different story, for a different vision, than that poor liberal vision that we are experiencing here. I think we need to change that now. I think this is the perfect time to change that, to make the end of neoliberalism, which we see on newspaper pages, come true. I have heard very positive things, especially from the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I like that he also admits that it wasn't good. This reduction in the dividend tax is, of course, a symbol of trickledown theory, the theory that prosperity through those shareholders will automatically come to us. That's not true; that's not true. The reduction in the tax on profits has now been postponed, but it is not going to do anything for wages. It's coming to the shareholders. Companies buy their own shares. That's what we shouldn't want. In contrast to this cold human image of the Netherlands as an almost coincidental collection of calculating citizens, I would like to put another image, a more positive image: social democracy, a community in which no one is completely self-made. Because you have to measure progress by how we deal with the people who had the least chance at the beginning instead of the success of the richest. The Netherlands should be able to do that. We could achieve this in this budget by making a number of other choices. An alternative vision is possible. I'll give you that in three contrasts. The first contrast is that you are presenting a budget surplus while at the moment a huge teacher deficit is raging across the country. How can you do that? How can you do that? How can you say you're going to use 3.4 billion for the treasury? I heard, "We want to watch; the minister has to talk first and we wait what the sector says." The sector is very clear. The sector says that children do not receive the education they need. Parents say our children are sent home. There's a four-day school week. Letters are sent stating that children are not allowed to go to school at the age of four, but at the age of five. In this rich country, in the eighteenth economy of the world! Stop philosophizing about future funds, because that's the future. Those kids deserve it. If we wait until they ride that backpack as a bridge peeper, we're too late. Those kids deserve action now, and that means money. To anyone who says that money is not the solution, I say: of course, I know, but it is a huge problem. To anyone who says that education is expensive and that it wants a lot, I would say: try the cost of ignorance. Instead, you should go one step further. Use the billions to make sure that children from 2 years of age can go to school and to make sure that we take advantage of all the opportunities from daycare to university. Mr. Chairman. The second contrast, which fortunately has been raised a great deal today, is the contrast between a budget surplus and housing shortage. Yes, I am pleased with the cabinet's letter on housing shortage; at least with parts of that letter. 'Cause there's another tone. Corporals will have more room, I'm sure. Although there is a great deal of research, a great deal of thought is being given and a great deal is coming back to it, I can taste the willingness to face the fact that there is a housing shortage and that there is a crisis. But for nothing, the sun rises. Those corporations can do a lot more, but right now, they're going to pay more on balance than what they get with that $100 million refund a year. That's not possible. Those corporations can build 0.25 million extra homes, affordable homes, if we relieve them of that burden. I would argue that we should also enable them to play a role in the neighbourhood approach by working with the municipalities to provide more police officers and more guidance for those in need of care and also by ensuring that corporations are given the space to not house all vulnerable people in the same porch when allocating. Because in the neighborhoods of the Netherlands where things are less good and where economic prosperity has not landed, that's where it cracks. That's where people need a government to stand up for them. It's possible. The third point is inequality. Rob Jetten mentioned it in his lecture. That progressive capital tax is there; it is in the counter-budget of the left. You don't have to think about that anymore. We can do that, and it's a lot of money. But this inequality is, of course, more than just a financial issue. That has everything to do with the fact that people can't cross over to the other side of Heerma's birthday party to quote. This does not fit in with the Netherlands, because the real promise of the Netherlands is that we in this country do not stand by when the spread of knowledge, power and income is totally distorted and that we know here that we are a richer, more successful and more prosperous country if we share it. That brings me to the political conclusion on this cabinet and the plans for next year. I do not think it is enough to say that all kinds of mistakes made last year are not being made, no matter how happy I am. If you see what's needed in our society right now, I think this cabinet is doing some sort of pirouette on a goldberg, a pirouette who's too full of who can put his name on what plan and does too little justice to what's needed right now. A surplus in the finances, but a deficit towards the people. The Labour Party will support those plans that are going to do something about it. That means more money for our public sector, the people who keep us safe, like police and military, the people who care for us, the nurses, and the people who carry our children forward, the teachers. We will support those plans that are really going to do something about the housing shortage. It also means that if we fail to adjust, we will not support them. Politics is also choosing, is also fighting. I sincerely hope that, after the fine words that have been said today, tomorrow will show that we can also do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u408	I hear a plea for classical social democracy, if I may sum it up. A number of things concern me, namely defending the public sector and investing in education and care. I did not hear so clearly the fight against bureaucracy, because that is on the other side, but I think we can agree on that. There is only one big elephant in the Chamber, namely that a welfare state, a good public sector, a safety net, is incompatible with open borders. That is something that social democrats throughout the Western world find incredibly difficult to recognize. The British struggle with it, the French struggle with it. But in Denmark, the Social Democratic Party, perhaps the Sister Party of Labour, has been dealt with. They have recognised that what they all want on social safety net is incompatible with the migratory flows that are now there. They have said that we are really going to be an immigration critical party, because we want the welfare state and the safety net to be maintained. Is such a move expected from the Labour Party in the near future? You haven't talked about it so far. Are you going to name it at all? Is it something that the Labour Party finds an exaggerated problem? That's what you were suggesting. Or are you going the way the Danes have gone now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u409	The Labour Party is in favour of a decent and realistic migration policy. That means you have to distinguish between the different parts of it. I think we should always admit refugees. People who are in danger, you have to catch them. We can, we can with other countries together. I also think it should be a realistic policy. This means that I believe very much in European cooperation. I think we should do much better in the situation in Greece, but I believe that we need to find solutions with Europe. What's that supposed to include? You care about the inequality in the world, one of the drivers of migration. Improving care in the region, not to keep them there but to provide perspective, to ensure that girls and women are safe, that there is education, that people can get to work. In other words, I think you can very well pursue a decent and realistic migration policy. I hear a bit in your question that Social Democrats would not be able to do that. I believe that we can do this and that we are committed to serving the general interest of our constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u410	I'm sticking to the phrase "we can." That is what I heard Mr Asscher say about immigration policy. What numbers do he think we can record annually? I myself believe that we are already far beyond our ceiling and that we should start working with remigration programmes rather than with even more immigration. We already have way too many people here we can't catch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u411	I don't think you should discuss that in such absolute terms. It depends very much on which people come here and to what extent you manage to give them a place in society, whether they come to work, or whether we manage to ensure that people who come here and are not entitled to asylum return to the countries of origin. However attractive from the strength of the debate, I do not think it is fair to put a number on it. I think you'll agree with me intellectually. You're not gonna tell the next fugitive whose life is in danger, "God, we're on Thierry's border." However, I agree with you that you will have to pursue a realistic policy, at least if you propose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u412	Someone once said: the definition of madness is the same thing that doesn't work, repeat it continuously, and then have the naive expectation that it will turn out differently. In recent decades, we have simply failed to integrate people from the Middle East and from Africa. With a few of them, they did, but they didn't work out statistically. We can see that. Then why do you say we can do it, but it's just the question of who you're bringing in? That's not realistic, is it? We've seen that we fail over and over again. Shouldn't we just stop for a second now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u413	Two comments. One is: I don't like saying this to anyone who has settled in the Netherlands in the past I don't know how long...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u414	I'm not. No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u415	No, you were talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u416	A few. There are individuals who have found their way in the Netherlands fantastic, but very large groups do not. Today's first speaker, Mr Wilders, recalled that 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands prefer Sharia over Dutch law. That means you have a big problem. This applies not only to their religious affiliation, but also to street behaviour, participation in the labour market, education, language disadvantages, women's emancipation and so on. Across the board, you've been seeing a failure of integration policy for decades. I think we are gradually reaching agreement on this in the Netherlands. When I hear Mr Asscher say 'we simply have to implement a realistic immigration policy', I ask what a realistic immigration policy is now. I think that at the moment these are very few immigrants from cultures that seem to be totally different from ours and which integrate very difficult, if any, at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u417	It's hard to answer a question with so many statements in it. Still, I'll give it a try. That is not a criticism of you; I would like to prepare the President for the fact that I will have to answer the question in parts. The first is that the story that 70% prefers Sharia is bullshit. You shouldn't repeat that either, because that's just not true. When Wilders said that seven years ago, it's already been verified as false. That's why I had this déjà vu this morning, this Groundhog Day feeling when someone came forward and said, "You know what's bad?" 70%... It's not right! It just doesn't make sense! And you can also notice that in our society. You don't have to deny any problem, I really won't do that to resist the defeatist, frightening image that 70% of our fellow countrymen, who happen to be Muslim, adhere to sharia or choose Sharia. That's just bullshit. That's part one of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u418	Mr. Baudet, you've asked a few questions, so it's okay to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u419	It's possible. But Mr Asscher says you can see it in society. What I notice in society is a huge hostility from all kinds of groups, enormous insecurity and extremely worrying stories about sharia schools, about intolerance on the streets, people being bullied out of their neighborhoods, and you name it all. You can see it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u420	Again, there are definitely problems and you have to solve them. You say now outside the microphone to Members of Parliament who laugh, that they are part of it, but I do not like to call each other part of the problem. I certainly won't do that to you. What's wise now? To talk about the different things... You have labour migration. At the moment, I think it is too much part of a business model that focuses on the lowest possible cost of labour. That's what's bothering us all. This affects migrant workers, and this affects Dutch job seekers. The smaller Dutch companies, which cannot use these structures, also suffer from this. I am therefore very critical of this. So what is the realistic approach? Don't say, "Let's close the borders." The realistic approach is to ensure that we adapt the rules so that employers lose that cost advantage. Then you still hold labour migration, but especially for job vacancies that are not filled; not to compete unfairly. I think that is a sensible, realistic approach. If there are problems with salafistic currents, you have to deal with them, solve them. Those problems are there. And I don't think children should be poisoned. But the whole plea for the bridge peeper was: use your whole freedom. We have proposed modernising Article 23 of the Constitution in such a way that all schools teach citizenship, democracy and respect for human rights. I think that's wise. But what I do not participate in and what I advise you not to do is to raise examples to the general standard. From the fact that things are taught wrong in informal education, you can't infer that our neighbours, our colleagues, all of them adhere to that idea. In fact, if you thought that, it would get much darker. It's not like that. Of course there are integration problems, certainly. But do we have to name them all? Those naming champions, we were over that, weren't we? As if you get a plus from the master because you say: I see a problem and I name it at least... we've been there! That's been going on for 10, 15 years. I think we should talk about what we can do about it. You say stop migration. That is far too general for me. I believe that the Netherlands, as a civilised country, should always receive refugees at risk. I do not think that the Netherlands should have open borders for anyone who wants to live here. I don't think that's possible and that doesn't fit. One way of implementing this is in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u421	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u422	I have one more question. Are you prepared to work with us, and perhaps with other parties that want to do so, to bring Syrian status holders back to Syria, even if they would prefer to stay in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u423	I heard Mr Baudet say earlier: Assad said they are welcome to come back. Most of the Syrian refugees I've spoken to were on the run from Assad. There's torture there, people getting killed, there's purification. Of course people go back when it's safe there. But is the fact that the dictator, who tortures people, says that they are very welcome, really the criterion for you to say that we are going to bring them back? Is that the modern, prosperous Netherlands, or is that the debris of civilization?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u424	I suggest you move on. Mr Baudet will be next in turn and you can ask him questions. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u425	Mr. Chairman. I was in the process of reaching some political conclusions on how things are going with the cabinet. I would like to point out that in March of this year the cabinet lost the majority in the First Chamber. That doesn't have to be a problem at all. The cabinet is very capable of finding solutions to this itself, I suspect. At least that was achieved with the pension agreement. For the Labour Party, the key to the choice we are making now is that we do not regard the wealth that exists today as our accidental merit, but as something that obliges us to commit ourselves to the society of later. We think of the people who have worn the century of Fopkje, but we try to create a century before the bridge peeper that we will soon be proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u426	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I actually want to propose to... Mr. Kuzu, you should have gone a little further, because now you're late. I'd like to propose that we suspend for an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u427	Let's move on to the debate. We're still working on the first term of office. I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u428	I hope everyone's back in the game and had a good meal. Madam President. We're at a crossroads. The Council of State has put us hard on that. We're not going anywhere for a while. That's the time to think about what we really care about and what the good life is. Madam President. We emit too much nitrogen, that's how the Council of State ruled. That's why thousands of construction projects are dead and there's no new neighborhood in Roermond, there's no windmills in the sea and there's no new construction for companies. The story of our nitrogen problem is actually also the story of the Netherlands. It's the story of all of us. We want everything, we want it now and we want it all at once, on that "very little piece of earth," while the things that give life value are under pressure. The way forward is not to blame the Council of State's ruling. The way forward is not to blame nature reserves for lying so inconveniently next to our houses and our roads. How brutal! The way forward is not to look for new legal tricks. No, the way forward is to acknowledge that our way of life exhausts ourselves and creation. And now we're at a crossroads. At that crossroads we can think about the good life that we want to live as a society. This applies not only to dealing with creation, but also to dealing with one another. Early this summer, as a ChristianUnion group, we were guests at the Taste community, in a difficult district in Delft. Couples and singles live there together. They have a beautiful garden. They have made them available for the neighborhood, in one of the most densely populated neighbourhoods of the Netherlands. It's become a neighborhood garden. On Friday they organize a neighborhood cafe. It's a place where people are there for others. It was a beautiful place; an example for society as I see it before me and as I like to see it. The Council of State's ruling on nitrogen and on the so-called PAS reminded me of the choices made there. Let us seize this moment to find out what good life is and what our priorities are. I will make it clear what our priorities are. They are not due to an increase in the speed limit and not to unbridled growth in air traffic. Our priority is, however, the shift to circular agriculture, which has been used under the inspiring leadership of the Minister for Agriculture. But with the peasants; not over and without the peasants, but together with them. If we're gonna keep our lives viable, we're all gonna have to settle in. Our response to the ruling of the Council of State must ultimately be a choice for the good life. Madam President. For example, I come to speak of the Coalition-Y, about the yearning of young people for that good life; a life with less debt, with prospects and prospects for a good future and a life with more peace and more attention to each other. Coalition-Y's commitment has everything to do with the much-needed shift from a rushed neoliberal society to a society with attention. I heard that desire for such a society when I started talking to young people at Windesheim University of Applied Sciences in Zwolle. Younger after younger said he had dreams, but was burdened with debt and performance pressure. As a result, the drop-out is high and more and more students are getting gloomy. They sometimes fall out with burnouts and the demand for psychologists increases. Madam President. The day before Princess Day, Coalition-Y offered her manifesto to the Prime Minister, and earlier we spoke at the Catshuis. I want to thank him for the listening ear he has for these young people. Coalition-Y is a broad coalition of about 36 youth organisations, now eight political parties, a programmer, Tim Hofman, and thousands of individuals who have joined online. We make ourselves strong for young people. We do that because we have to get rid of the unmerciful myth that if you invest in yourself and if you take chances, then success is a choice, and that failure is your own fault. It's a neoliberal fairy tale that liberals, as it turns out today, no longer believe in. The Coalition-Y manifesto calls for steps that give talented young people more opportunities for a home. The cabinet is taking good steps on the housing market. I would like to encourage the cabinet to give starters a chance to do so. When will we understand the feasibility of a fervent desire of the Christian Union to bring the transfer tax for start-ups to zero and increase it for investors from the third house? 'Cause a place isn't a profit factory. I also ask the Prime Minister to respond to another Coalition-Y proposal, namely the introduction of a generation test. I am making this proposal today with Mr Jetten. In doing so, we ensure that when a pension agreement is concluded, for example, and the development of a housing policy, the consequences for each generation, from young to old, are properly identified, in order to ensure fair and generation-proof choices. Is the Cabinet prepared to develop such a generational test and to consider what role planning agencies can play in this? Madam President. The story of our nitrogen emissions, the story of the Council of State's statement and the story of Coalition-Y represent something bigger in the Netherlands, for the opportunity we have to make a change. Not to look for the better or the best, but just for the good life. For me, the good life is a life in connection with the Creator, the creation and each other. The Christian Union wants to provide space for a society with attention, in which people direct their lives, have the space to look at each other and take care of each other, in which we look after the next generations, in which we take care of the creation and cherish the freedoms on which our country is built. I welcome the reflection in the Millions Note on the broad concept of prosperity, which looks beyond purchasing power and the size of public debt. Quality is not determined by this, but by having access to good education, good care and living in a clean environment, by preserving freedom, by our rule of law, by our democracy and by security. The cabinet creates the conditions for that. I am pleased that the cabinet is once again reducing the burden on citizens. This year with about 3 billion. It is a step in the right direction for the Christian Union Group. But I do ask the Prime Minister to keep an eye on the relationship between families who have to live with one income and the so-called two-earners. It is unfair to tax the family income of a single earner much more heavily than that same family income of two earners. I'd like a response to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u429	It is a good thing that the Christian Union calls attention to the broad concept of prosperity and also wants to apply a generation test. We too are part of Coalition-Y.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u430	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u431	But that broad concept of prosperity is also about the good life outside our country, namely in countries where it is less, where people have to fight, every day because they are hungry or because they have no chance of a fair and sustainable existence. When we look at the Millions Note in this light, we see that the percentage spent on development cooperation is at a level that is just as low as in 1973. That disappoints me, with the Christian Union in the cabinet, which I have heard all these years pleading for a high development cooperation budget. So I wonder why this has happened and why the Christian Union is not fighting for a higher development cooperation budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u432	We are fighting for this; Mrs Thieme has seen this very well. This has led to a higher budget. Occasionally, more money is being made available for development cooperation. So we share more of our wealth in this period. But structuralally, the trend of the percentage compared to our national income is indeed worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u433	It's so low. It's as low as it was 40 years ago. Surely the Christian Union cannot do that, given the development funds available in recent years? Unfortunately, we have to note that the money has often been invested in migration matters and in Dutch companies in developing countries and that we have not yet fulfilled our moral and international obligation to help those countries further in their development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u434	This is also the place where you can boldly say what your dream is and what your hope is. And that is indeed that percentage is growing or at least that we share more of our prosperity with people who have it much less. At the same time, the budget is growing because our national income is growing and our economy is growing. The budget will always grow. On top of that, additional funds have occasionally been allocated for aid to the poorest. So we are taking good steps over this period, but not enough as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u435	So we find the Christian Union on our side when we argue that more money goes into development cooperation and that the budget, the percentage of our gross domestic product, goes up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u436	When I look at the future and what the farther away dream is, I can say yes wholeheartedly, because then I have the hands free. For the next year and a half I am bound by agreements in the coalition agreement and I will be loyal to them. But if the question is whether I want to share more because we are a very rich country, then my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u437	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u438	Madam President. I welcome the increase in the child-related budget. This relieves the pressure on young families and gives busy parents a little more air. In families, too, everything must be done now and must be done at the same time. The Christian Union wants to work on a society with breathing space for families, especially in the rush hour of life. At the same time, I am concerned about the growing call for care in the social domain and the distress bells that municipalities are calling for. We must be so honest as to recognise that municipalities are hampered by the changes in national government spending when making their plans. To make it just as visual: if we do not buy JSF or postpone that purchase for a year, our municipalities can do less for people who need care, for children who need youth care or for homeless and homeless people. That's inexplicable. Does the cabinet therefore want to work on a more trendy way of financing the Municipal Fund? The Christian Union, together with D66, wants the fluctuations to be removed from this. Madam President. I come to the so-called Investment Agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u439	Very interesting; I'm sure the cabinet will investigate that. But is there anything we can do for next year? There's a deficit of maybe 700 million. That's what homeless people are gonna feel and it's gonna shut down pools. Is there anything we can do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u440	Something's happening. Extra money goes to youth care, for example. Hundreds of millions more are allocated to this. So the municipalities get extra money. The municipalities get a lot of extra money in this period anyway, because now finally, kick up, down the stairs, the system has been used in which, when the budgets of the national government are growing, local authorities also benefit. So they get more money. And if we can adjust the system so that they know much better when they get what and how much, then I think we're doing them more justice than we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u441	That was not an answer to my question. I don't fight systematics and so on. Of the week, a letter was published from the 40 major municipalities, with approximately 350 municipalities joining in the meantime. What I see is that because the cabinet did not spend the money it intended to spend last year was that 12 billion and this year 10 billion should be saved by municipalities. No one understands that at all. They see the speech of the throne and Dagobert Hoekstra on that mountain of gold, while they will soon have to close the pool and explain why. My question is: can we do something for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u442	My answer was that we are already doing so, but that is probably not a satisfactory answer for you. There has been a long and long talk about, for example, the money for youth care. That's where hundreds of millions more go. I also speak to aldermen. They also come to us from all sides and the alarm clock is also sounded at us. I'm not deaf to that. I would like to draw attention to the extra money and also to the commitment we are making to ensure that they no longer have the unpleasant surprises they have had this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u443	It is not the surprise that is unpleasant, but that is the pool that closes and that is being cut back on the well-being and on the library. Then it is a bit crazy to say: close the pool in particular, I come with Mr Jetten with a motion for an investigation. I know what is happening for youth care; we have complimented it. But there's a very big problem. You propose to deposit a surplus of 3.4 billion into the treasury. My question is to ensure that municipalities do not have to cut back on things that you and I consider very important. Let's do that now!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u444	I think I should repeat myself: it's not nothing we do. It's a few big steps. Of course, I would have liked the system we have now to have been adapted for a long time, but I can only do what I can do now. That is making sure that next year's surprise is no longer there in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u445	If that surprise isn't there next year, then the library is closed. Then neighborhoods shut down. Then pools can't open. Then it's been at the expense of a lot of things. I am listening very carefully to Mr Segers. The system isn't working. It is strange that municipalities, if the government does not get money put away, will get less and will have to cut back while they do have to spend it. Can we not then come together and say: okay, this might change next year; should we not now work with a cash drawer or something like that to ensure that at least we do not have to make additional cuts this year? It is not yet structured, but at least we will ensure that we do not take irreversible steps in these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u446	When you hear the sounds and the concerns that are expressed, I understand, of course, that you feel that too little is happening. I'm looking at what did happen. I sat at the table when the local authorities came by. Then it was proposed to restore the so-called staircase-on-strap systematiek. This gives them much more money, because the government is now going to spend a lot more money. They were happy about that. For example, we have introduced the subscription rate for the Wmo. That's also a local facility. As a result, by paying a modest amount, 17.50 a month, people can claim the WMO provision. We made money for that. When that debate was held here, the question was whether it was enough and whether municipalities were not cut off. Another motion has been tabled which has been supported by the House. We'll keep the finger on the wrist. The promise is we'll be there for them if it really doesn't work out, if it doesn't work out. But that happens one step at a time. I'm not saying I can promise the world right now, but one of the steps you can take is another system besides the extra money that already went there, the extra money that goes there this year and that might go there next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u447	I do not deny what is happening and what additional resources go to local authorities. But I think it's a bit harsh. We're talking about a new system. I assume, if two coalition parties come up with that, it's going to become reality, too, that we're going to change that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u448	I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u449	This means something for next year, but municipalities must start cutting back now. Once a community center or pool is closed, it won't open again next year. We don't have to change that system at once. We're not gonna be able to do that on such short notice. But if we see that coming, then we have to stop these municipalities from cutting short now. That is the question I am asking Mr Segers. Can't we stop these discounts from happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u450	Politics is always choosing in scarcity. The same applies to local politics. There will also need to be chosen in scarcity. It's not that this is the shawl for bleeding, that this is something very limited. It is not only extra money that is already going on, but also extra money that is being released once more in this budget for the local social domain, in addition to legislation. For example, I mentioned the Wmo, but there are other facilities. We're looking very closely to see if any of the municipalities are coming out. We made a promise that we'll be next to them. We want them to be able to do that local job properly, that they're there for people. We made that promise. Is this a small step, too? It's never everything, but it's definitely not nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u451	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u452	Finally, Mr President. You're talking about choices in scarcity. There's 3 billion left. We have a surplus of 3 billion. To say that there is scarcity, that we have had to make difficult choices and that everyone has to make their contribution: that is the story of the crisis. We're in something else now. The government has estimated that we have to spend extra money, and we see that it is not possible. Because of the system we have chosen, the consequence is that municipalities now receive less money. That's not fair. I think it is very good that you want to change the system. All I'm asking you to do is make sure we don't take any steps this year. Next year, we'll have some good news for them. I'd hate for the library to close this year. It won't open again next year. I'd say that's a shame. I hope that we can find a way in which we can do this properly, not for the municipality or the administrators there, but for the inhabitants of all those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u453	It is choosing in scarcity, because we still have hundreds of billions of debt that still have to be repaid. That's guilt pressing next generations. I was just talking about generation-proof policies. We're still in debt. I am now going to talk about an investment fund. That's guilt, too. I mean, we hope we make money from that, but it's still debt we make. In the meantime, I hope that Mr Klaver will listen in a little bit; thank you for that. So those are still debts. That's still choosing in scarcity. It's not like there's suddenly free money and it's raining bills from heaven that we can freely issue. It's still guilt. We're still dealing with scarcity. That's where we try to be social. We are indeed trying to make the choice that allows local authorities to provide good care close to people. We've made a lot of promises. There's a lot of money coming. We'll see if it's enough next year, and we'll keep the finger on the wrist. Madam President, the investment agenda, the fund. If there's ever a chance to figure out what we want, what good, sustainable growth is, so we can live the good life, then it is now. The cabinet wants to develop an investment agenda and I have read tens of billions of dollars for it. This corresponds to Joseph's biblical wisdom, which the Christian Union Group has regularly shared. Joseph chose as the viceroy of Egypt to invest in good times, so that the country was well prepared for worse times. I read that there are several spiritual fathers of this idea, but now it is clear who the real spiritual father of this fund is. As far as I am concerned, we will soon have no Hoekstrafonds, no Wiebefonds, but a Joseph Fund. This fund offers the opportunity to invest in the economy of the future, an economy that is human-oriented and takes into account the capacity of creation. Then the Christian Union chooses to invest in the transition to our own clean energy. We then opt for fast O.V. connections between parts of the country, within urban regions and abroad. Then we choose to invest in innovation and education, in which all young people count, from young to older, and all talents should be given room, not only for investing in good-looking minds, but also in professionals, in golden hands. The investment fund offers the opportunity to examine together the major challenges in the areas of mobility, housing, climate and energy, in order to make the right choices in conjunction. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the cabinet is going to ensure that this is taken up as one joint task. Madam President. The Council of State has stopped us hard, and we are at a crossroads, where we need to take the road to a society in which overloaded people are given rest and space again and in which we can live the good life. That requires a different, human-oriented government, a government with attention. Let me give you one example. Last year I was standing here at the interrupting microphone and I asked the Prime Minister if it was not a good idea to have one window in every municipality where citizens can address their questions about the energy transition. What does this mean to me? What can I do about my own house? That was a generous commitment. What does this mean in practice? A year later we have the discouraging situation that a resident of Rijswijk, when looking for that counter, is referred to Rotterdam, where he has to pay €69 for an hour's chat. I think it's really crazy. If we want to break that off, we have to say goodbye to a thought that has set the tone for too long. It is neoliberal thinking, in which the market dominates, our country is called the Netherlands, the government as a company is run and citizens are reduced to customers. DUO, the Tax Office, NVWA, CBR, UWV, IND, SVB and whatever the abbreviations are, if the executive services of the government were indeed companies, they would all have gone bankrupt long ago. Only people who depend on it can't go anywhere else. My question to the Prime Minister is: how is the cabinet going to work on the shift to a serviceable performance, in which human measure is once again central, in which people are more important than rules? That also requires something from ourselves as a chamber. It requires self-reflection. What laws have we imposed on the implementing organisations? People do their work in all those organizations to their honor and conscience and with heart and soul. But how workable are the instructions we gave them? That is why I agree with Mr Heerma and that together we are proposing that a parliamentary inquiry be carried out, taking longer to look back at the breadth of the implementation by the government, and certainly also at the role of the House of Representatives. Madam President. The failure in the performance may not be felt as hard as in Groningen. According to Minister Wiebes this year was to be the year of implementation, a year in which people finally see progress in their village, neighborhood, street, house. How's that going? Can you assure me that even if gas extraction stops, the efforts will continue to be directed towards doing justice to the people in Groningen who have been suffering for years as a result of gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u454	In my interrupting debate with Mr Jetten of D66, I spoke about the danger of CETA, the free trade agreement with Canada that we will soon have to ratify. Or not; we are faced with a choice. If we are actually going to reverse this gas extraction, then we must prevent CETA from putting a line through it. Indeed, if we ratify CETA, companies such as the Canadian gas extraction company that has invested in Groningen will be able to claim hundreds of millions of euros in court for investment protection. The Animal Party and other parties say: you should not want to do so, we want to stop this gas extraction, the First Chamber should be able to vote for it freely, without the threat of CETA. Is the Christian Union also prepared to say no to CETA, along with the Animal Party and these other parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u455	At least we have the freedom to take a critical look at it. I think it was a proposal of yours to organise a round table and a hearing to see all these aspects very well. We supported that proposal. We like to talk about it. So the decision lies ahead of us. We are indeed critical, including on dispute resolution. It must really fit into our rule of law. We are looking at whether the quality requirements we apply in terms of animal welfare and food safety remain at the same level and do not go down. Those are conditions, as we have written down in the coalition agreement. So that's how we look at it. I cannot say anything here at this time, but I believe that we are going with you as regards the role of Parliament to ask for all the information, to put it on the table and then to judge us. Madam President. A good life is a life of freedom. Our common home can only be trusted if it's safe as well. We can only live the good life if we are protected. 75 years ago, our freedom was fought expensively. That gives us the duty to protect that freedom. Like many others, I am deeply concerned about the influence of salafism on young children. We've all seen the report on that at Nieuwsuur. Here too, the government must be a shield for the weak and protect against a radical version of Islam that uses freedom only to destroy freedom. That's not what freedom is for. To be honest, sometimes I miss the sense of urgency in the cabinet. What about two legislative proposals that have been on the table for a long time or should have been here for a long time? I am referring first of all to the bill on the regulation of foreign financing from non-free countries, a bill for which ministers Blok, Koolmees and Dekker are responsible. How's that going? When is this bill coming to the Chamber? And we have also heard a bill announced about the earlier banning of anti-democratic organisations. Mr Dijkhoff has already referred to this. I understand that this bill is now with the Council of State. Also in this case a warm encouragement to make work of it, because when you see what happens to those children now, your heart breaks. We must be able to use the means of the rule of law to protect freedom. If a good life can only be lived in freedom, the government cannot look away from the terrible injustice of human trafficking and forced prostitution. There is not enough police capacity to deal with human trafficking and forced prostitution. I don't think that's possible. That is why, together with Mr Asscher, I am proposing the structural release of EUR 10 million extra for police capacity in this fight. More priority is needed. We also need legislation. On this point, I look at Secretary of State Broekers-Knol. She's still in her first period, but we're waiting for the law on the regulation of prostitution, an important law. We are also awaiting the introduction of the pimp ban. Before that, I'm looking at another ruler. For my part, once again, the warm encouragement to do something about it. If something is at odds with freedom and good life, then that is also drug addiction. We see the impact on young people. We see the impact on Brabant, on a city like Amsterdam. We have read the report The back of Amsterdam. As a Christian Union, we have a small tradition of self- chastisement in the General Political Reviews. Last year we talked here about the melon of the dividend tax. This year I want to talk about the trials of legal weed cultivation. There is a remarkable double-heartedness in the Dutch policy on drugs. Let the mayors roll up pot plantations, but let them grow pot themselves. We roll up drug labs, but we also have 20 places in the country to have pills tested. Isn't that bizarre? For our group, the experiment with legal weed cultivation is not the prelude to legalization either. For us now, the key question is: how does the government prevent further standardisation of drug use? How do we prevent this experiment from sending the unholy signal that drugs are okay? Madam President, I'm coming to the end. We are at a crossroads and we need to find out what a good life is with 17 million people on a limited part of the world. This is a life with less debt, with more peace, more attention to each other, better care for creation, with a serviceable, human-oriented government. It's a life of security and freedom. But if this is the moment of self-reflection, reflection on the good life, then we must also consider what we are doing to each other here. We lead here in the Lower House, here around the Binnenhof an intense life for which we all pay a price in social terms. It is so high for some that they have to stop prematurely, stop or stop temporarily. Every time that happens to a colleague, Mr President, that was recently with Mr Arno Rutte, then it affects all of us. At least it affects me, because we realize that we ourselves are vulnerable people and also have trouble living a good life with the loved ones around us. I don't have the final wisdom to solve this tension for all of us, but the little wisdom I have I like to share. I would like to give us a little more money to support our work here, a little more Sunday rest and above all the blessing of our good God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u456	I welcome the fact that Mr Segers is calling attention to the implementation and what we are doing to citizens. There is another point that I mentioned in my contribution, and that is about the police and the vice police. There really is a shortage of capacity. People who have fallen victim to a sex crime sometimes have to wait months before the case is picked up. Is Mr Segers prepared to see what else we could do there to meet people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u457	I thought it was a very nice plea. It was also a very personal plea in which you referred to Mr Buitenweg, who is very close to the subject. Why is it touching you? Because you have faces in front of you right away because you know stories. I have that with human trafficking and forced prostitution. If you've spoken to a few victims, you have them in mind when you think about that. There's a lot of need. There's a lot of freedom. There's a lot of injustice. The police have a lot to do. But sometimes you have to put a fence around something and say: but one thing, if we don't pay attention to this, we'll never see it; then we'll never find it. If you don't go looking for victims of human trafficking, you won't find them. On sex issues it may be so complicated that it is easier to say: you know what, we put it aside. They are sometimes of those subjects where you say: that is simply not allowed, that is so immoral and so crucial that we pay attention to this, even if it is only a small gate, even if it is not always about the largest numbers. So yes, this too is one of those subjects that affects me, so I am very sympathetic to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u458	Thank you. Then we'll see what we can do for that in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u459	What a fine speech by Mr Segers on the good life and the search for it. Very nice. One of the places where people experience stress and unrest is in the classes of our primary schools. I just wanted to check something out. I've heard your coalition colleagues say, "We want to watch, we want to talk, we get that there's a problem." Let's say they're actually thinking we're gonna make extra money out of it. You're not gonna stop them, are you? I just wanted to verify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u460	That's a very intelligent question. Then tell me... Yeah, what would you say? Yes or no? There's a rush hour. It makes a lot of difference how big that class is. We're both fathers, so we've seen the situations of the busy and full classes. We know what that means for teachers. It is very easy to say that money does not solve the problem in the short term. Because you don't just have extra teachers. You have to train and seduce people to switch jobs to education. There's a lot of extra money being spent. I'm just saying. It sounds like a killer, but it really is. Thanks to an encouragement at the beginning of this period, the outgoing period of Mr Asscher himself, another 270 million was allocated. That's where extra money came in. I think my colleagues have said: go and see where it's pinching. By the way, money is still available. At least there is no collective agreement in primary education. That's painful for the teachers. Although there is money available that could land with those teachers, that does not yet happen. For our part, it is also an encouragement to work on this collective agreement. Of course, there's nothing I can say but that I'll look at it the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u461	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u462	Mr. Chairman. I have now seen twelve General Political Reviews, but for the first time, I am seeing more than one group chairman openly questioning the sustainability of our current system and the addiction to economic growth and seeing that there are limits to growth. That makes me hopeful. But anyone who reads the introductory words, sentences, of the Millions note must conclude that the cabinet lacks a sense of reality. The foreword is mainly full of self-congratulations. The Dutch economy, despite Brexit and trade wars, returns to a normal growth rate after years of shrinking, according to the cabinet. But the cabinet shows only one side of the medal that it grants itself. Unemployment is falling, wages are slowly rising and public finances are thriving like never before. There is a surplus for the third consecutive year. With this, the cabinet wants to strengthen public services and make new investments in nursing homes and the housing market by 2020. The cabinet therefore wants to reduce the burden on citizens. Who could be against that? In addition, the government spends no less than EUR 3.4 billion on the repayment of public debt. The cabinet only devotes a few words to the environment and climate in the foreword: the climate agreement creates a sustainable Netherlands. You'll have to dare. The reality is a different one. In the field of biodiversity, the Netherlands scores disastrously. We only have 15% of the biodiversity that we had at the beginning of last century. According to the Planning Bureau for the Environment, in the Netherlands the loss of surface and quality of the original of course has been significantly greater than average in Europe or the rest of the world. It's the bio-industry and the large-scale use of poison, agricultural poison. Those who cycle through Dutch meadows think themselves in the green but in fact drive through a rai grass desert. Landscape pain calls the Frisian journalist Jantien de Boer: the pain of disappearing insects and birds. We are right to get excited about the Brazilian rainforest that is on fire, but we seem to forget that the cabinet was cheering when the European Union concluded a free trade agreement with Brazil because Germany wanted to export Volkswagen if necessary and Brazil wanted a free pass to burn down the rainforest further for animal feed and meat exports. The free trade agreement with Mercosur is just more oil on fire. We also overlook the fact that the tree hood in our own Netherlands is a fraction rapper than in the country of Bolsonaro, Brazil, among other things to fill the biomass burning furnaces and call that green energy. Wood ovens. If we burned all the trees in the Netherlands, we would have electricity for up to nine months. Lack of a sense of reality. We also stop for roads and gas stations. As in Ouderkerk aan de Amstel, where citizens rebelled against the hood of 14,000 trees for the expansion of the A9. On the contrary, we would have to plant trees massively in order to avoid the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis. The Netherlands has one of the largest slaughterhouses in the world. We slaughter 650 million animals a year, mostly for export. We're dealing with a proliferation of megasthals and more and more animal bandages alive in barn fires. This year, more animals have died in this horrible way than in all of 2018. 167, to be exact. That's as much as Nijmegen has to inhabitants. Mr. Chairman. You're looking in vain for this side of the medal in the Millions Note. That's not a coincidence. The cabinet transfers responsibility for the climate to future generations, with an agreement that leads to a temperature increase of 2°C. It seems to me that there is no other way to say it to the internationally agreed objectives and to the responsibility of the individual. The money that we then invest, we mainly put in lap drugs. Think of the energy- and subsidies-lurping manure plants. In addition, the cabinet particularly asks citizens to check the tire pressure of the car regularly, to provide the house with double glazing and to put some aluminum foil behind the radiators. But the cabinet goes through rowing and windows when it comes to the economy. If there's money to be made. As large consumers of energy must be spared. If the earning model of e.g. the Netherlands has to be defended. To do so, everything must be done: people, animals, planet, democracy and the rule of law. The ink of the Climate Agreement was not yet dry or the cabinet gave permission for further expansion of Schiphol. Despite massive resistance, the cabinet tries to push through the opening of Lelystad airport for holiday flights at all costs. Even if the government believes that the need is high, there is only a small amount of money available to meet the Urgenda targets: EUR 500 million. Money is suddenly no problem if KLM has to be saved from the French. A sloppy €744 million has been issued by the Cabinet in an afternoon for the purchase of shares of Air France-KLM. According to the newspaper reports, the cabinet has now lost EUR 58 million, but that could also be much more if you look at price developments. I'd like to know from the cabinet exactly how much we're gonna lose. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet supports free trade agreements with countries such as Brazil: Mercosur. It pushes through the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, CETA. In Brussels and Washington, TTIP light is once again under pressure, despite massive protests by citizens, SMEs and farmers. What this kind of treaties can mean for humans, animals and planets is taught by the treaty with Ukraine. Although this was voted down by the Dutch electorate, the Prime Minister solemnly assured us that we would not comply with Ukrainian standards, but that Ukraine would comply with our standards. The reality is that we are overwhelmed with puffy chickens that you shouldn't even be producing in the Netherlands. Our farmers, the animals and the planet have checked. How can the Prime Minister defend such free trade agreements against Dutch farmers, our citizens and our youth? The cabinet also continues to distribute subsidies to the fossil fuel industry: EUR 7 billion per year. That alone is EUR 20 million today. Now we have the nitrogen statement of the Council of State, which stops megalomania, housing, aviation and more asphalt. But the answer of the cabinet is not 'we are going to halve the number of farm animals', as Mr Jetten of D66 suggested a week and a half ago, which is obviously a good plan. No, according to the cabinet, the nitrogen standard needs to be stretched. The Minister of Infrastructure and Water State has already indicated that we need to come up with a ruse to circumvent the law. Her colleague Schouten van Landbouw already knew which one. The method of calculation must be put on the shovel, under the motto: if the facts do not make sense to us, they must give way. Mr. Chairman. This does not improve the shaky confidence in politics and will not help the planet; on the contrary. The standard for nitrogen emissions should not be more flexible, but more stringent. We must not only ensure that nature does not deteriorate because of all that ammonia, but that it improves. Often, too often, the judge is the last instance where citizens can go with concerns about climate, animal welfare and the environment. And each time the cabinet tries to get out of these sentences. In 2015 and 2018 the judge in the Urgenda case ruled that the cabinet should comply with its own climate goals. Last week, the Attorney General and the Advocate General repeated this in an opinion to the Supreme Court, because the cabinet had, of course, gone back into cassation. But they said, "Keep the sentence in the Urgenda case." The cabinet consistently calls for it to respect the statements, even last June, when Minister Wiebes said he wanted to respect the verdict, but then does the exact opposite just as consistently. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet must be careful not to become co-guilty to ecocide: the conscious destruction and disruption of the only planet we have. Those are not big words; that is a big problem, a huge problem. The cabinet is knowingly looking for the edge of what the ecosystem can handle, even if that same ecosystem shows that it has already passed that edge. Whatever advisory body you consult, whatever scientific report you read, they all agree that radical change is inevitable, starting with the global food system, everything we eat. The Netherlands, as the second largest food exporter in the world, plays a crucial role in this. This summer, the International Panel on Climate Change announced that we will only achieve the objectives of Paris to counter climate change if we switch to a more plant-based diet and thus eat less meat, eggs, milk and chicken. It is a message which the Party for Animals has been spreading in the Chamber for 13 years and which is receiving increasing support. Mr. Chairman. The resistance in society is growing. Look at the protest against the tree hood, against the megas and against free trade agreements. Look at the success of our party's forest funding action. So not crowdfunding action but forestfunding action. In two weeks we have collected nearly two tons of euros in order to buy free nature that is sold out by the cabinet in order to make small change from nature reserves. Also look at the massive rise in climate marches. There'll be another one next week. Come on, everybody, next Friday! Not only in the Netherlands but also abroad, these climate marches are increasing in size. Look also at the 40 ambitious measures taken by Urgenda, which have supported 700 companies and civil society organisations. And look at the school strike against climate change, which during the throne speech received support from none other than the king. He said, "I feel responsible to pass on to younger generations that you must resist when needed." I also mentioned, of course, the D66 plan, but also the GroenLinks proposal for an emergency law on halving the number of farm animals. As far as I am concerned, we are side by side fighting the bio-industry. But how does the government react? Police and security forces are infiltrating the environmental movement. Minister Wiebes says to the young climate strikers that they should go to school rather than go on strike. On television, Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen trivializes the environmental damage that we are causing the planet and thus legitimizes the rearguard fight that the climate explorers are engaged in. And she was blackmailing the neighbors of Schiphol by saying that they can't count on help if they keep demanding that the airport shouldn't grow. Mr. Chairman. Last year we abstained from signing the budget. It was clearly too little and too late, a budget heading for a three-degree temperature increase scenario in 2050, while climate scientists have said that we must stay below two degrees of warming at all costs and that one and a half degrees is the safest scenario. We have taken our political responsibility by not approving that budget. The budget now before us, the Millions note we are talking about, is making exactly the same crucial mistake: too little, too late. It is the third consecutive year that the cabinet has made a surplus on the budget, a unique one after nine years of crisis. Now that the money is there, it's telling what the cabinet chooses. Over 5 billion will be left over this year's cabinet, but it wants to use nearly 3.5 billion to repay the public debt. Only EUR 1.7 billion is available for new policies. Of these, a small extra 200 million is intended for climate policy, in addition to the amounts previously earmarked. These are political choices, not legal ones. It is a good thing that the cabinet is abandoning tight budgetary rules. Fine, but why is it more important to pay off public debt than to invest in the future, especially if the public debt is historically so low, the interest charges are negligible and the need for large-scale investments in making the Netherlands CO neutral is so great? The cabinet also announces a growth agenda and an investment fund in the Millions Note. My question is: are we going to use this fund to meet our ecological debt to future generations? I'd like a response. Is the Cabinet prepared to develop a broader review framework for assessing possible investments from the Fund? This concerns questions such as: is it good for the planet, will it reach the people, will it increase animal welfare, will it preserve nature? Is the Cabinet prepared to develop such a review framework? There is now too much pressure on the earning capacity of the Netherlands and on increasing productivity. Our support can only be given to the Minister if social and environmental demands are equally heavy or heavier than economic ones, in addition to the broad concept of prosperity which we have heard today that several groups in this Chamber are charmed by it. Mr. Chairman. That is for later, when the growth agenda and the investment fund come to the Chamber. Now we are talking about the surplus on the 2020 budget. Why not use that surplus for a warm clean-up of livestock farming? With an amount of around 6 billion, if you use the calculation method of Wageningen Economic Research, we can halve the number of chickens and pigs in the Netherlands. That is also the D66 proposal. The CO target and the necessary ammonia reduction are thus within reach. But it illustrates the short-sightedness of this cabinet that this necessary reduction has not even been considered so far. It raises the question of how it is possible that apparently sensible, socially concerned people are still so little convinced of the need for a radical system change, while the evidence that we are destroying the planet is piling up and cannot be ignored. This brings me back to the beginning of my contribution: the lack of a sense of reality. We are convinced that this shortsightedness is due to the human-centred thinking with which fossil politics look at the world. Mencentral thinking. Typical are the words used to express the usefulness of animal and nature. Nature is first and foremost a raw material and is considered natural capital. The CO storage by trees is called an ecological service for humanity. And the fire safety of stables must meet the same requirements as the toilet roll storage areas. It's unbelievable. Animals and nature are especially valued in politics if they are useful for the economy and can be converted into money. This is reflected in the way Prime Minister Rutte talks about the Netherlands: as an e.g. with multinationals as shareholders, who are entitled to the highest possible return. It has produced a country, the country of Rutte, in which everything and everyone must be mobilized to maximize the growth of domestic product, our national income. And so the labour market needs to be further flexibilised, fathers and mothers need to enter the labour market full-time, students need to study technology and sigh care and education under the tyranny of profitability thinking. The interview given by Minister Wiebes last Monday in the Algemeen Dagblad is illustrative. In order to maintain our prosperity, we need to work even more and become more productive. Working part-time is, according to him, a luxury that we can no longer afford. This wretched look sees man, animal and nature first and foremost as a means of production. The Minister does not see that this is accompanied by loss of well-being. The fact that a relaxed work system represents a value in itself is shunned from the observation of Minister Wiebes. It is typical of this single issue cabinet: only gross domestic product counts, economic growth counts. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals sees it differently. In our worldview, call it a planet-centred worldview, ecosystem, nature and animal each have their own value, regardless of its usefulness to us, people. We humans have a role to play in this and one that is much more modest than at present, in which we take more account of the own value of animals and nature and stand up for the most vulnerable and try to protect and emancipate them. Our respect and compassion must extend not only to the vulnerable of our own species, but to all species. The horrible fates of the animal in our food system are the glasses with which we look at the world. It is a perfect way to learn how exploitative, alienating, disruptive and therefore untenable our economic system is: focused on short-term gains. If you look at it with human-centred eyes, you won't see it. Then you see profits, savings, commodities and growing bank accounts. But if you look with planet-centred eyes, you can see what is happening in the food industry: large-scale exploitation of animals and waste of raw materials. And in all other sectors, the same happens, both in the public sector and in the private sector. It's about the same logic, the same stories, the same effects. We are all trapped in a one-sided economic logic, in which all our concerns are expressed in money. Large scale, increased production and efficiency are the key words. Exploitation, alienation and dehumanization are the effects. Fortunately, there are more and more people, including politicians, who I have heard today, who are willing to look at their own actions with different eyes. I am very hopeful, as I began to do. Mr President, during the 25 minutes I have spoken, again 31,000 animals were slaughtered in the Netherlands after a short and miserable life in livestock farming. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u463	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u464	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS was also beaten out of the field by the murder of attorney Derk Wiersum. Last week, at the request of 50PLUS, we had a major debate on drugs. The most serious issues came along then, but apparently it can still be worse. It's a good thing we're gonna talk about that again soon. Madam President. Is it wise to promise, as a cabinet year after year, that everyone will improve, while the citizens will in reality be deceived over and over again? This Prime Minister started it years ago by giving a huge sum to every citizen. He made promises to companies much less in public, but it was precisely those and their shareholders who received substantial additional profits. The ordinary citizen didn't get it. And older people have been completely shut down in recent years. Now the Prime Minister gave a profit warning in the Troon speech. I understand, given the unspoken promises of the last time. And again, this cabinet, directly through the CPB and through the King, had nice figures brought out. I fear that, as in recent years, we will have to conclude in a few months' time that these are once again empty promises. For older people, we can already see that for the umpteenth time they are falling further behind on workers. Yet I do admire so much trickery and deceit. The Prime Minister's party has hardly suffered. Even after all the integrity problems his club faces, it is still the country's largest party in the polls. You can only describe that as admirable. However, more and more elderly people are beginning to see through it. They've known for ten years that it's nice talk. They read in the newspaper, heard on the radio and saw on TV that their income would go well, but noticed something quite different in their wallet. And your wallet, he's not lying. The Dutch economy has grown sharply in recent years, but the improvement in purchasing power has not kept pace and older people and pensioners have already been completely ruined. That's unfair. That's gotta be different. You will understand that by far the majority of responses that come at 50PLUS are about pensions. Older people, on top of the fact that their pensions are not indexed by the rules of this cabinet, have also suffered severe blows in other areas. I am going to mention a lot of figures in the list I am now giving. Anyone who wants to, can read it on our website afterwards. I mention the increase in prices due to the increase in VAT and the insane rise in rents. A quarter of the tenants are now stuck. Not everyone has the luxury of their own home, let alone a paid-off house. I would also mention the price increases in public transport, which affect not only workers but also older people. As a result, they are less likely to visit their children, friends and acquaintances, making them lonely even faster. Why do we make public transport for the elderly outside rush hour, as for students, not free of charge or at least cheaper? There is a lot of anger about the delays in renewing driving licences. The situation at the CBR really causes anger. By means of a tax measure, AOWs have to pay a larger share of their AOW themselves each year. The introduction of the Bo tax for older people who have a slightly better life means that they will be placed in a higher tax base rather than in the labour force. And pensioners pay their own health care contributions. In the case of workers, the employer pays with it. The Law standardizing the concept of pay did not compensate pensioners for the increase in the first tax base, but workers did. The large tax reduction of 5 billion focused on workers, as was the case with next year's plans. They take advantage of it. Old people don't. And then the old-age allowance in box 3 for low-income people. It's just been abolished. The employment discount for workers is up to €3,800, for older people up to €1,600. The old-age discount is reduced three times faster than the working discount. It is noteworthy that in the media and in statisticians, elderly people with an AOW and an additional pension of €20,000 per year are referred to as "high incomes," while those with the same income are referred to as "middle incomes." That's what you call "framing." Retirement homes were cut off. This creates additional housing shortage, including for young people. Not every older person needs it, but for those who do want it, 50PLUS believes that a modern version of the former retirement and nursing homes should come back. Now the gap between independent living at home and the nursing home is far too big. At food banks, more and more elderly people are coming. In particular, the 50+ group is at great risk of poverty. This will only get worse next year, as a result of the Labour Market Act in balance. The number of people with debt problems is unacceptable. They are often not helped quickly enough and are not always well. The care needs to be affordable again. Now, in a civilized country like the Netherlands, care is avoided by stacking up own contributions. The question for the next parliamentary year is therefore whether the current healthcare system in this form is still sustainable. In any case, it is time that alternatives were examined. Then there was also the ransom to hit especially the elderly, who neatly paid off their mortgage extra and unexpectedly. On top of that, they have to deal with the miserable person who wants to cause this cabinet knowingly. At the end of this year and next year, large groups of discounts on our pensions are at risk. Our pensions: not only the pensions of people who are retired, but also of all young people who are still building up. What does the Cabinet have to do with that? At the NIS Journal, I heard the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, tell Ron Fresen that politics is not about pensions; that would only be a matter for employers and employees. I wish! It is the policy that together with De Nederlandsche Bank determines the rules of the game. That's where the shoe wrings. Much worse, Madam President, is that the Prime Minister was uttering outright falsehoods against the NOS Journal. He dared to say without a glance or blushing that the investment results of the pension funds would be disappointing. What complete nonsense! The figures for most pension funds are virtually nothing wrong. The contents of the ABP pension fund increased from 173 billion euros in 2008 to over 445 billion now. That is insanely much, about as much as the complete profit that the Dutch State gained in all these years from the Groningen natural gas. The contents of all pension funds together increased from 700 to 1,500 billion euros over the last ten years. That's what happens when you make an average of 7% return: then the capital doubles every ten years. Even if you only, very carefully, make 3% return, there is still EUR 45 billion coming in. That's more than all pension contributions combined. Of course, about 35 billion in premiums will also be received. If we calculate very bleakly, with 3% return, you're still talking about some 45 billion in investment income plus 35 billion in premiums. That's 80 billion. About 35 billion of benefits are paid out each year. Even with half of the return from the past, and that is really very prudent for the people at home: extremely careful so you still have a huge positive result of 30 billion a year. The capital will then continue to grow. Those are wonderful numbers. We have the most beautiful pension system in the world for a reason. You can improve on parts. Think of the far too high implementation costs and salaries at the top, which are far above the beaming standard. But please do not throw our pension system overboard, as unfortunately a majority of this House wants. So get rid of the newly concluded pension agreement. My party, 50PLUS, was never excited about it. Now the FNV seems to have repented too. All we need now is the coalition. As a 50PLUS, we will focus on this in the coming year. Do we have an alternative? Oh, yeah. That's childishly simple. Don't focus on the artificial, fictional, extremely low arithmetic interest rate, but look more at the really made returns. Let everyone know that there is a difference between that artificial interest rate and the actual returns. Why can we change the method of calculating nitrogen within a few hours and not the method for pension funds? This can easily be done, because on average the Dutch pension funds have made around 7% return over the last 30 years. Measured over several years and even with occasional negative dips, that percentage is very stable. Moreover, my constituents have still not forgotten that in the 1980s and 1990s the Dutch State financed the budget deficit from the pension fund. During this period, the government "borrowed" tens of billions from the ABP to fill budget deficits. That money has not been repaid to this day. This has consequences for pensions, although fortunately even this robbery has not prevented the increase in pots. Is something like this gonna happen again? Are we all frightened, so that we do not rise up against unnecessary discounts and so that greenhouses can continue to grow unprecedentedly? Is there going to be another attack on the greenhouses by our government, or perhaps in the future by Europe? I don't want to be a conspiracy thinker, but why shouldn't we be compensated now that the retirement pots are bursting with money and year after year only more money comes in? Are we working behind the scenes on an EU system, and would our 1,500 billion be a nice step in this direction? Or does this cabinet, together with the employers who have been so well-off by this minister, wish to conclude that there is so much money in the pots that the premiums can be reduced? Is this cabinet in the middle of a second big pension heist? Have everyone keep an eye on that. 50PLUS is therefore pleased that the Pension Loss Association has been established. He goes to trial against the Dutch State, just like the Pension Conservation Foundation and the KBO-Brabant, supported by the Pensioners' Association PCI and meanwhile also the Association of Old Hoogovens Employees. They are helped by some leading lawyers. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) of 50PLUS and our representative in the European Parliament warmly welcome this. It is a shame that pensioners, who no longer have a chance of repairing their income situation, are deprived of their own money. Pensioners, working and retired, are very successful savers. The government is now saying: your piggy bank is growing nicely, and it will continue to grow well, yet, just to be safe, you can take less and less out of your piggy bank. That is the effect of years of not indexing and shortening. That's fear of the highest order. The government is too cautious and therefore harms people unnecessarily. Pensioners feel that immediately in their wallet. People who work haven't noticed, or they haven't even figured it out yet. But in the end they will notice it in their retirement and they will be betrayed. Enough is enough. More and more elderly people are tired of it. Almost all parties receive angry e-mails from their older members. It won't be long now, or they'll pick eggs for their money and switch. Because remember that the next elections will take place in a maximum of one and a half years. This year, 50PLUS will present an initiative legislative proposal to criminalise age discrimination. Other countries introduced us in this respect. For a long time we thought it wouldn't be necessary in our country. I wish. "Our land." Now that I use those words, I notice that there are places in the world where the inhabitants not only indicate in surveys that they are proud of their country, but also visibly convey it. Can't we think of things to stir up that pride? I'm thinking about a "Made in The Netherlands" day. This would be an annual Saturday in which companies will be exposed to products, innovations, services, scientists, top athletes and ideas from young and old. Let us, together, see abroad where we, as a small country, are all at the forefront. Let us not only see that in the few minutes that we can spend next year in the video at the Eurovision Song Contest, but every year, and grand, at the Fair, with a TV show and a competition in which our royal couple awards the prizes, in the presence of foreign guests and investors. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. Madam President. There have been several calls for support for MPs today. 50PLUS does not do that in order to table further motions or to request further debates. The Chamber must be able to control the cabinet properly. That is why the cabinet also has a far-reaching information obligation. Unfortunately, too much disappears under the carpet. Now we are often shocked by revelations from investigative journalists. But then, of course, we are already too late; it has already gone wrong. If the Chamber is to be able to carry out its control function properly, we need eyes and ears in the country. What's really happening? Is the policy being implemented? Is there any maintenance? Where does the regulation work and where is adaptation needed? My group is in favour of placing the departmental inspections under the authority of the House of Representatives. Then we'll know what's going on. We shall come back to this in detail to the debate on the findings of the Remkes Committee. This brings me to the next point. Last year the consultative referendum was abolished. 50PLUS has moved heaven and earth to maintain the referendum. Have more faith in the voter. 50PLUS wants the referendum back. Together with other parties, 50PLUS will once again work towards this goal. In the next few days, we're going to talk about money. Everything revolves around the numbers and numbers; the pages of almost all the newspapers were full of them this morning and this afternoon. Fun for the specialists, but not enough for the interested Dutch. And although this government does not have a happy hand in purchasing software, I would argue that all costs from the budget should be intelligent and interactively online, better than through the current tool. Thus, revenue and expenditure for a much larger group of interested parties become clear. Then the citizen can look up how many grants are being paid, to whom, how high, what the various institutions cost, how much rent allowance is being paid and how much welfare allowance. After all, it happens with money that is not from this cabinet, but from the taxpayer with money that is hard-pressed. It is entitled to a better understanding of the use of its euros. That will undoubtedly make tax morals higher. In any case, the budget must be simpler and more transparent. And then there's the Wilders issue. The appearance of a political process hangs in the air. As far as I'm concerned, it's spreading a disgusting smell. I say over and out. Of course, the Minister of Justice and Security can give the Public Prosecutor an indication of how to prosecute, but that must be explicit and justified. Moreover, if the defendant is a political opponent, interference is out of the question. The Minister of Justice and Security can also give a lead on how to stop a trial. Is there a willingness to strike a line through the Wilder process? Not to violate the trias politician, but to save the trias politician. Also in the coming year, 50PLUS will assess each cabinet proposal on the pros and cons. We will not vote against simply because we are opposed. But it would be extremely helpful if the cabinet would involve us more often and more quickly in the plans. We'll be able to think constructively. This is good for this cabinet which has only one seat majority in the Lower House and has to work from a minority position in the Upper Chamber. And let us not forget that the coalition here in the Chamber has a purely artificial majority of 76 seats. If you look at the number of voters they represent, this cabinet has no majority at all. VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnie received only 49% of the valid votes cast, which is less than half. And that of the people who bothered to come to the ballot box. Finally, my advice to this cabinet: climb out of your own accord, listen from now on to the forthcoming elections to the entire parliament as we sit here. Then we come to better-behaved decisions. In doing so, everyone's involvement is essential, because it is better for our citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u465	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u466	Madam President. Let me drop the door in the house: keep an eye on them, those diplomats! Last summer, I did some reconnaissances, and I stumbled upon a very annoying affair. I'll name man and horse. It concerns the Russian ambassador here in The Hague, Dmitri Alekseevič Golicyn. This man has been able to go about his business undisturbed for years. My pressing question to the government is: did you know about this? And if so, why hasn't there been any intervention? The Russian ambassador is involved in the blocking out of our country of masterpieces from Dutch painting: masterpieces from the Golden Age by Gerard Dou, Ruysdael, Rembrandt. They all left the country and ended up in Saint Petersburg. Why? Purely and only to satisfy the artificial hunger of Tsarina Catharina the Great. And so it is that today there are more Rembrandts in the Hermitage in Sint-Petersburg than in our own Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. I see the historian in the Prime Minister now thinking, "Wait a minute, that was way before my time." That's right, it happened in the eighteenth century. But he won't get away with it. I do not need to explain to the Prime Minister that he is also legally accountable to government acts of the past. That squandering of national heritage from the Golden Age is a beautiful name: Golden Age, of all things in the Age of Reason, can we not accept? Allow me to explain why I care most about the loss of one particular painting. This is a masterpiece by Rembrandt, a huge canvas of more than two by two and a half meters. It was one of his last works. Art historians also call it Rembrandt's last word. You can see that in this painting, one more time, everything Rembrandt had to say actually comes together. The baroque crowded out of many of his earlier paintings has disappeared. The style is quiet, simple, very intimate. We look an old dad in the face. He is lovingly bowing to his son, who has been kneeled down before him. The father seems to gently draw his son towards him. When you zoom in on the father's hands, you can see that there's something special about it. One hand looks firm, powerful. The other hand looks much softer, delicate and vulnerable. The father's mantle is warm red. The son's bald. His clothes look like rags. It's a special, touching scene. That's what the man on the right of the painting, perhaps an older son of that same father, seems to think differently. It radiates something grumpy, something distant. Indeed, I'm talking about Rembrandt's "The Return of the Prodigal Son." Maybe there are those who don't know this painting. That's why it's on my Twitter account, Facebook and Instagram from now on. I also brought a special edition. Of course, I can say it's on Facebook and Instagram, but what about the Prime Minister and his Nokiaatje? Are you sure it's okay with this one? That's why I brought a copy for the Prime Minister. Through the messenger, I'll put that in hand. As I see the President looking slightly jealous, I also brought a copy for the President, also as a thank you for the way in which she is leading this sitting again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u467	The prime minister puts him right in front of him, so he can doze off behind that painting, but we're not gonna fall for that. Mr. Chairman. This world-famous painting by Rembrandt is no longer in the Netherlands. Fortunately, what we still have are the biblical words of this story that inspired Rembrandt. This parable, this parable Jesus once told, can be found for lovers in Luke 15. A father had two sons. The eldest was good, lived nicely and stayed home to help his father at the company. The youngest son, on the other hand, claimed the inheritance and moved into the wide world. He wanted to leave and turned his back on his father. It is not known exactly how long that son has been gone, but it must have been a long time, for it says that he traveled to a far country. It also says that the large amount of money he had received was one day gone. You could say he ended up in the gutter. Eventually, he found a job as a pigherd, the lowest of the lowest at that time. He had nothing left and wanted to satisfy his hunger with the drab that was destined for the pigs. Deep in that misery he repents and decides to return home, guilty, filthy, destitute. Then in the story follows that beautiful text, where it says that when he was still far away his father saw him and was moved with compassion. His father ran into him, fell his son around his neck, and kissed him. Not an angry look, but a loving eye. Not a distant hand, but a warm embrace. Not one reproach from his mouth, but a kiss. His father is so happy about the prodigal son's return, he's throwing a big party. The eldest son is angry about that. He refuses to come to the party. For such a runaway who chases the father's money through the whores, the fatted calf is slaughtered, so he grumbling, while there was never a feast for him, the good eldest son, who has always behaved neatly. His father remains friendly to the eldest son, intimately inviting him to share in the joy of festivities. How it ends with the eldest son remains open, but at the end of the story he is in a way the prodigal son. The unconditional love of the father who speaks of this parable has fascinated many centuries, and the merciful attitude has inspired many centuries, not only Rembrandt, but also countless other painters, composers, writers and poets, as well as administrators and politicians, when you look into the past. Mr. Chairman. In preparation for these General Reviews I have wondered whether such a Biblical story actually says anything to contemporary MPs, whether it appeals to them, what it makes loose. That is why, while we were working on these VAOs in the last week before the recess, I simply put on six colleagues who naturally thought that I would sign a motion. But I had a very different question: what does the story tell you about the prodigal son? I actually liked the reaction. An "liberal parliamentarians from an atheistic nest"........................................................................................................................................................... Son, trust in the love of your father, and father, remain open to your son." A social liberal who liked to work for the rights of unbelievers, made some comments about the sincerity of the conversion of the prodigal son, but he mildly added: "If you forgive someone, that is definitely a four moment." Another MP, who has long passed the age of 50, responded with passion: "Coming back here is the key word. You can be so happy with something that belonged to you and came back." A now Christian MP, who was unfamiliar with Bible stories from home, said: "You know, this story tells me that no one can go down too deep, but there is always a chance to scratch on." I also heard that notion with a thoughtful parliamentarians from a growing party in the left-wing part of the Chamber: "I always advocate giving people a second chance after a misstep, although I understand that older sons find that difficult." A Socialist MP also mentioned the eldest son. She said: "The anger of the eldest son is actually quite intuitive. It's nice that the father pays attention to both sons. Also keep an eye on the good, disgruntled eldest son," was her plea. I thought all that was beautiful notions. What appeals to myself in this story is actually the opposite. It is not the predictable story of a rebellious son and a good son, with the morality of the story: be also a good brother. In fact, it's not really about the sons. That's what you see in Rembrandt's painting. The full light, which our great painter could capture in his works so unparalleled, falls on the loving father. For me, this parable symbolises the unimaginable love of the heavenly Father for sinful people, through the accomplished work of Jesus Christ; love for those who have turned their backs on God. Then it doesn't matter whether these people are conservative or progressive, whether they go to church or don't want to know about it. Deep in our hearts we are all estranged from Him, but there is a way back, and when you come home you learn to live by grace and forgiveness. Then it is a real celebration and you may try to stand lovingly and forgivingly in life. Then you'd really like to look like that Father. I am aware that many in our country, in Europe, see Christian notions as something from a distant past, are glad that they have left the father's house behind them. VVD member Herman Louwes, a sober farmer from Groningen, who spent years in the Second and First Chambers before the VVD, asked himself about 70 years ago when the Social Affairs budget was being discussed: does our social security system not assume a morale that is often no longer there at all? Louwes said: "How many have no memory of the security of religious belief and of the foundation of a religious family?" Louwes said: "These are not lost sons, but sons of the prodigal son. It doesn't mean anything to them anymore." So much for Louwes. And yet! They are also here now: people looking, with an unintended desire. Looking for a real home. I'm thinking about the sympathetic twenties. Never set foot in a church. He'll do whatever he wants. He immediately goes from party to party to big dose of pills and calls himself open-minded. He thinks brothel visit is "nothing wrong with it." But if we talk a little longer, he says: I don't find the real love there that I, if I'm honest, so long for. A weekly rest day he finds patronizing, but at the same time he feels so hunted. He loves being able to do whatever he wants in this country. Nothing is crazy: he even has the freedom to put an end to his life when he is "ready." But he's wondering, hasn't all this freedom gone through? Madam President. I can't believe it, but let me meet his older brother a little later. I wasn't comfortable with that conversation. He was grumbling about his youngest brother. He called him "loose and wasteful." "Yes," he said, "my brother went to the addiction clinic and knocked on the door for debt relief. I'm not happy about that. This is going to cost hardworking Dutch people like me a lot of money again. His debt is forgiven, while I have to work hard and pay more and more taxes." I wonder what the cabinet will say now, both to this youngest son and to that eldest son. Does the Cabinet recognise the harmfulness of slipped-through freedom? What are the concrete steps to combat drug standardisation and to tackle addiction? What strikes me is that the government is engaged in a rapid train journey to make state pot possible, but that tackling abuses in prostitution is in the lowest gear. Why is it taking so long for the announced laws to come? Why is no more human force being used in the fight against trafficking in human beings? Advanced thinking of freedom has also affected the protection of vulnerable lives. This applies not only to abortion legislation, but also to international criticism of euthanasia legislation, the way in which the review is carried out. When is the cabinet going to take that criticism seriously? There is another very important point. Speaking of passed freedom: more than in the time of the likeness, it is now possible to fly to a faraway country. That is beautiful, but also has a solid shadow side in the associated air pollution. When will the polluter pay for this? Mr. Chairman. The youngest son in the parable was guilty of potting. I don't want to blame the Dutch cabinet for that. The Dutch economy has been growing for a long time. That's good. But we must also bear in mind that there can be lean years again. Are we recession-proof? This is an important question, especially now that the economic and political situation in the world is so insecure and vulnerable. Would it not be a good idea, as in Sweden, to use a lower standard of acceptable public debt, in order to get more buffer for worse times? I would like to hear the reaction of the cabinet. Unfortunately, it is rewarded in Europe. We can see that interest rates are artificially kept low by the European Central Bank and that billions of euros are being channeled from northern Europe to southern Europe. Because of this low interest rate, elderly people who have been saving for years will soon have to interpenerate on their pensions. How does the Dutch cabinet deal with this? Madam President. In the country we are dealing not only with youngest sons, but also with oldest sons: dissatisfied citizens. This cabinet has been aware of this and has said that it wants to restore the confidence of disgruntled citizens. We're halfway through the ride now. How is this achieved? Rightful points deserve to be picked up. The student debt of many young people is rising, especially if your parents are not very rich and not very poor. Why is the cabinet putting this problem before itself, when it is clear that the system is not working properly? The SGP proposes that all students from middle-income families receive a real allowance in the form of a scholarship rather than a loan. In this way you directly help the middleincomes, not least the single-earners among them. For although the purchasing power of one earner is fortunately increasing, the two earners are making more progress. This widens the gap between one and two earners. The SGP remains a thorn in the eye that earners sometimes pay up to six times as much tax on the same family income as two-earners. What's the perspective here? In order to prevent sons and daughters from moving out of a region, a good distribution of educational facilities and strengthening of the economy call for attention. Recently, the Drechtsteden and Gorinchem called for this. It is a beautiful region at a crossroads of road, water and rail. They have plans for strengthening maritime activity, for manufacturing industry, for keeping young people away because there is too little higher education and there are not enough affordable housing. Does the cabinet see room for a regional deal with this area and other areas that can boost that development? Madam President, I'm finishing up. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. I wanted to drop the light on the loving father today. Real life is more than just politics. Especially if we don't have an eye for that, we can easily expect too much from Father State. Daddy can't do everything. No hearts change from youngest sons. No eldest sons help off their grudges. But Father State can show the right way, offer the right frameworks, sometimes with the strong arm acting, sometimes with gentle hand guiding. Let that happen with strength, wisdom and enthusiasm. In their responsible work, the SGP warmly wishes the Ministers and State Secretarys God's indispensable blessing. And oh yes, if ever there was an opportunity for a gentle price to get the prodigal son back from Saint Petersburg, I would say: seize that opportunity. Maybe a Pechtold Commission could take a look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u468	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u469	Mr. Chairman. I saw a pill lying in the aisle between D66 and GroenLinks. Well, that's very appropriate today. Honesty commands us to say that to this day the political landscape was fairly clear. The PVV threw in a motion of mistrust, the VVD came up with antisocial test balloons, GroenLinks kept followable stories about the climate and Baudet went inimitable, theatrical and confused philosophies, and the President and DENK were together in the clinch. Today we actually see a completely different political landscape. We see Wilders begging for help. Dijkhoff today tells an empathic and realistic story about his family. I actually felt a band, not just because we're equally young, but his grandfather worked at Philips and my grandfather bought a Philips light bulb. Clover keeps a very strange philosophical story, and in his own words without drug use. Then I wonder what a story would sound like when he took a pill. The question is, of course, what remains for Baudet? But fortunately we can be sure of one thing: be sure that the PvdA will give away everything they promised today to the VVD in exchange for the power after the elections. Mr. Chairman. What can you expect from DENK? We're gonna make the change one less movie. Mr. Chairman. So much for the reflections. Back to reality. Because mankind still wants to be set up. One of the many memorable sketches by Van Kooten and De Bie began in the eighties. It was a coincidence that during that same period a greedy young man from The Hague became politically active. We didn't know coincidence would turn out so cruel. This young man is now the embodiment of a political miracle, the greatest political talent of this generation. That young man has let Van Kooten and De Bie's lesson run through his prime ministership like a thread. That young man who thinks he can get away with everything smiling. That young man starts his tenth year as Prime Minister in exactly 26 days. After ten years of Prime Ministership, it is time to take stock and put the facts on the table. Then there is really only one conclusion to be drawn: Rutte is a disaster. Mr. Chairman. Rutte promises to improve purchasing power every year, but every year it doesn't end up at all. Last year you received a few nickels, but in the meantime he took a euro through the VAT increase on butter, cheese and eggs. Where does that money go? To multinationals, big companies and the highest incomes. More money and more legitized grabs. He's also a hustler. How long will the Dutch be fooled and fooled? Mr. Chairman. I'll mention one of Rutte's tricks. He promised in 2012 that his own risk would not increase. Good, people thought then. But what did Rutte do? During his reign, the personal risk in care increased from €150 per year to €385 per year. Mr. Chairman. Rutte says the economy is on full swing. But the reality is that the number of homeless people has more than doubled during his reign, the number of people around the poverty line is about 1 million and 400,000 children are growing up in poverty. That's Mark Rutte's political way of doing things: first promising everything and then screwing around so often that you can fill a Bosatlas with it. Today's the day again. Yesterday Princess Day, today the General Political Reviews and the budgetary discussions that are to follow next: again good news shows. Again, all kinds of promises that are not going to be fulfilled. Once again, political parties are diving across each other to defend low incomes, middle incomes and pensioners. Once again, the hundreds of millions and billions of euros are flying around you for more security, more homes, better education and good care. Here, on the square mile of The Hague, everyone loves this game. But the people in the country are shrugging their shoulders. People trust politics less than the great capitalists of ING, ABN AMRO and Shell. Then you've really done it. Mr. Chairman. It's not fair to hold Rutte alone responsible for these abuses. No, no, no, no. Other political parties are just as complicit. Nevertheless, it is fascinating that all political parties working with Rutte's VVD lose at the next elections. It happened to Wilders with Rutte I, it happened to GroenLinks thanks to the Kunduz chord, it happened to the PvdA in Rutte II. Last victim's name is D66. As a political party, you are therefore wise to stay as far away from Rutte as possible. Working with Rutte creates a kind of Bermuda triangle for your seats: you'll never see them again. Mr. Chairman. People in this country expect politics to identify the challenges they face and propose solutions, solutions to find an affordable home. People are being chased out of their neighborhood because renting becomes priceless and buying is no longer possible. People expect solutions to the cost of care. People pay themselves to their own risk, to their own municipal contributions and to their own contribution in the pharmacy and if you claim that care once, then someone comes along to talk to you about it for just as long as it makes you sicker. Because the established political order does not make sense to solve these problems, political tricks are used: the politics of diversions, the politics of people against each other, the politics of extortion and the politics of divide and rule. Let us take a simple example: the introduction of the burqa ban which we saw the newspapers and current events full of last summer. We have already said in the Chamber that this is purely symbolic policy and a bullying measure which, under the guise of freedom and security, deprives 300 women of freedom and security with facial cover. The real question is what problem you actually solve with the introduction of a ban on a handful of women who are not allowed to get on the bus or into hospital. Is that gonna cut rent? Are there suddenly more affordable homes in the country? Is the cost of care falling? As far as we are concerned, this is typically one of those measures which does not solve any problems. At least Wilders is honest about that. On the same day, he tweeted that this was a prelude to a total headscarf ban. The VVD and the CDA are used to chasing Wilders because of electoral fear, but the scariest thing is that so-called progressive left-wing political parties have turned into viewers and even blindingly allow the Netherlands to get in the grip of this kind of thought. With the PvdA in front. Nothing progressive ideals and freedom for everyone, nothing are who you are and nothing is equal. The PvdA likes that women who wear a nikab cannot go to the hospital and are chased off the bus. There is no opposition to this idea. It is properly operated, implemented and executed. The same happens when dealing with Salafism in Islamic education. Let me be very clear: DENK believes that individual organisations that preach hatred and violence and that want to overthrow the democratic rule of law should be tackled in the strongest possible terms. But in a state of law. That is precisely why many people have interfered with the statements of politics about the coverage of the last week. I quote Asscher, who talked about "toxin" in society. With this he puts a whole group of educational institutions in the suspect bank. He uses the double measure, because I have never heard the same Asscher speak the same force language when it comes to reformatorical, Christian or Jewish schools, which also do not excel in the left-progressive measure of sexual diversity used by the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is sighing under the greatest co-existent threat to the democratic rule of law and our free society. That threat is the advancing right-wing extremism and the fascist thinking in our country. Never before have we had a politician who called for Europe to remain dominant white. Never before have we had a politician who wants to send police officers into houses to rip a Qur'an out of people's bookshelf. Never before have we had a politician who called for houses of prayer to be closed and called "less, less, less" from a group. Many people in our country feel oppressed and orphaned by this. They feel less and less at home. These people are wondering where the hell this is going. There is already a law in the making to ban halal and kosher slaughter, which the so-called inclusive parties PvdA and GroenLinks voted for in 2011. With the unsatisfied, Islamophobic social climate, people are wondering where this is going to end. On a total ban on Islamic education? In a total ban on headscarfs? On a total ban on Islam? Mr. Chairman. Instead of resisting this islamophobic climate, the political middle and a number of left-wing progressive parties are involved in what may be called the greatest coordinated attack on religious freedom since the 1566 Beeldenstorm. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, you wonder: what should politics do? It's actually not that complicated. We are responsible for providing solutions to the problems of the people in the country. Why don't you come up with some real solutions for the housing market? CBS figures show that the rent increases have been higher and higher since the arrival of this cabinet and are above inflation. The WOZ values break all the records, making a starter's home priceless. DENK wants to limit the exorbitant rent increases. Private middle hire should be brought under the points system as soon as possible, so that rent increases from 10% to 15% are no longer possible. DENK also wants this cabinet to legally stop demolition and put in the sale of social housing. There are not too many, but far too few affordable homes in our country. Housing corporations are there for affordable living and not for real estate and money knocking. You could also expect politics to come up with solutions to the rising costs of care. The affordability of care is under enormous pressure. That's why this cabinet actually says: if you get sick, it's your own fault and you also have to bleed financially. Year after year, the increases in care premiums are spreading. Since 2014, the healthcare premium has increased by €300. But that's not the end of it. The insurance package is also undressed. Picking up a drug at the pharmacy costs a lot of money. The own risk increased by €225 to the absurd, unsocial and abnormal amount of €385. That is why I can only draw one very painful conclusion. The care is priceless and must be affordable. Therefore, the profits and reserves of health insurers must be skimmed and the reserves of health insurers must be wound up. Eliminate the antisocial own risk. Maximize the premium increases. Take on the pharmaceutical industry and the manufacturers of medical devices. Stop excessive enrichment of hospitals. Knock it off with the healthcare industry. Mr. Chairman. In one way or another, politics has the neurotic urge to deal with all this social and political fuss about what we should call our past and how we should deal with diversity. The Netherlands suffers from an identity disorder. The Dutch identity of respect, tolerance, tolerance, equality, freedom and our Constitution suffers from a cultivated fear of foreign, international isolationism and the fear of being called politically correct. Fearful when we are to be blamed for having a "way with us" mentality, multicultural society has almost become a swear word. You can hardly say nowadays that you think diversity is enriched and belongs to the Netherlands. In today's politics and in today's society, political correctness has been completely lost in political incorrectness. You hear "full is full," "less, less," "headstock tax," "pick up" and "they don't belong here." There are even cops who really was a low point who proudly call themselves "Moroccan exterminators." How deep can we sink? The limits of rudeness and insult towards minorities are being shifted annually by our people's representatives. That is the only border that Wilders still wants to keep open: to emphasize the differences as flat as possible, to stand up as flat as possible for your self-interest, and to break down as flat as possible in a few sentences everything the Netherlands has always stood for. One's freedom is worth more than the other's freedom at present. Our fundamental fundamental rights are being blackmailed by explaining them differently to one group than to the other group. Mr. Chairman. That is why we need a party that stands up for the real identity of the Netherlands and for real freedom. As far as DENK is concerned, you don't have to be ashamed of being tolerant and tolerant. Be proud of that! As far as DENK is concerned, it is very strong to emphasise and embrace differences. As far as DENK is concerned, promoting multicultural society is not "way with us" but "way with us against them" and "way with division." As far as DENK is concerned, we stand up for real freedom and not for the false freedom that applies only to the majority or to those who shout loudest. DENK will therefore always convey the true identity of the Netherlands without shame and with pride. DENK will always stand up for the freedom of everyone, regardless of faith, origin, orientation or whatever. DENK will always be the voice of those people who are not addressed by the most righteous, hardened and brutal political climate. Because if one party can promote what the Netherlands stands for with all its diversity, then it is DENK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u470	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u471	Madam President. When you sit at the window, you can see a large part of the Netherlands passing by you when landing at Schiphol Airport. The alternation of ditches, fields, fields, villages and a bit further on the IJsselmeer. The dense road network of the Randstad slowly slides underneath the jet engines. Come home where people speak your language and where you can read the faces, where you know your way around the city. Coming from the strange, you become aware of your own. You can see the Zeeland islands, the Delta Works, the Rotterdam harbour with all its activity, the beaches on the Dutch coast, the candle-right fields and meadows that cover and keep our country warm like a patchwork, the Hoogovens, the industry, the country with the most beautiful architecture, the most beautiful old cities and the culture of honesty and justice. That's our Netherlands, our home, the only country we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u472	I was wondering if Mr Baudet saw this on the way back or on the way back in the private jet to Ibiza.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u473	On the way back. That country, that Netherlands, that we all know and that we all experience, for example when we come back from vacation, that is the country we love and that is the country we are doing this for. But we have not only started a political party and the Democracy Forum has not only arisen because we love our country, but also because we are very worried about this country, because we think we are losing this country. We want this Netherlands, which we see when we come home and when we look around us, protect and preserve. I'm not okay right now. Almost half of the people, 46%, face financial challenges every month; that's what we read in the newspapers. That's not just about people at the bottom of society. It is also about middle-class people and people with modal incomes. People who were able to make ends meet twenty years ago, buy a house and save money can't do that anymore. This is a result of continuous increases in charges: housing costs, healthcare costs, energy costs, groceries. Everything's getting more expensive. There are far too few houses built. The own risk in healthcare has increased considerably in recent years and the money is being spent on more and more bureaucracy and management layers. Energy costs continue to rise and this cabinet also increased VAT on essential goods, a measure that mainly affects lower incomes and middle incomes in the wallet. Living, caring, energy and groceries are four areas in which this cabinet is not on the side of the hard-working doers. Students are now struggling with loans thanks to D66. Zzp'ers, people who take risks every day and thereby create the innovation that makes our country so strong, lose their self-employed deduction. Pensions have not been indexed since 2009. The historically lower interest rates, which are the result of the ECB's buy-back programmes for southern European debt, cause our savings pots to evaporate. What's going on here? We see a Netherlands that suffers from ever-increasing costs, ever-increasing taxes and ever-increasing bureaucracy. Under the Rutte Cabinets, the collective burden pressure increased from about 35% to almost 40% now. That malaise is not just economic. The crisis isn't just in the wallet. Our streets are getting more unsafe. Recently, there were two new lows. A 71-year-old man was abused in broad daylight in The Hague by street thugs, because he appealed to them on their behavior. Eventually, he died of the consequences. And this morning, the mocromafia in Amsterdam liquidated a lawyer. Mass immigration continues. Since Rutte is in power, the net increase in the number of non-Western immigrants now corresponds to half the city of The Hague, twice the city of Leiden or twice the city of Maastricht. In the three largest cities, indigenous people are already a minority. In countless ways, we also pay a price for this. In addition to the clear costs of asylum, there is also a staggering crime rate. In prisons, more than half of them are immigrants or strangers. But I also mention underperformance in education, reduced participation in the labour market and the price that we pay in cash due to the fact that we no longer feel at home in our streets and can no longer honour our traditions. I see, in short, a Netherlands that is losing its identity. The most beautiful land in the world loses its shine. And all this is because of three major projects. Three major projects that dominate the entire political agenda in the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u474	I was working on the crime figures. Mr Baudet would like to take parties, especially the VVD, into account how bad things are in that party and what mistakes are made there by drivers. There's a lot going wrong. It took them 40 to 50 years to stack up all these cases. You've been at it for a year or two and we've seen how you're doing in the party. And when it comes to crime figures... You said your former treasurer committed fraud. If so, are you going to report it? Because this is about taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u475	We have detected and thwarted an attempt at fraud and a number of other cases. For a number of reasons, I have always taken the view that I considered the waiver and the decisions that I took together with the drivers sufficiently serious. We see a number of reasons for not following any further legal procedure. I then managed to expand the party's board. We now have a day-to-day administration that will consider the issue once more. I put this question to the executive directors. I am dealing with the political line. The rest of the organization is with them. I can pass on your question. You can also send them yourself by e-mail if you want and then you can get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u476	It is a very different way of debating things. You say: I do not necessarily have an answer to the question, but if you send an e-mail, you may get an answer. That is also a way of debating with each other. But what I'm asking here is serious. You constantly take on board what they are doing wrong and what their drivers are doing wrong. Now it's happening to you in the party. You are constantly talking about taxpayers' money and we need to check how it is spent. Your party will be financed with taxpayers' money. Drivers of a scientific agency distribute it because otherwise it would go back to the state. In other words, back to the taxpayer. You're talking about a possible attempt at fraud. Fraud! And you say we've taken it off in the party. You're not a judge. If there is fraud, I would very much like you to report it as a taxpayer and as a politician, who you also take the measure. If fraud is involved, it must be investigated to the full. Even if it takes five years, it's about justice. If you have such a big mouth about how you're going to clean up politics, do it in your own party!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u477	That's what we did this summer. We cleaned up, cleaned up. We've disbarred the people who were involved in this. I am glad that a number of steps have been taken. I agree with you that it is serious. That is why we have seen no option but to make these decisions. In a foiled attempt at fraud, it's already a huge step when the board says: boys, wait a minute, this really can't be done. Two is a royalty. Three is the extension of governance and the division of tasks, with the political line being pursued by me. The day-to-day administration, which we now have ad interim, is continuing to address this issue. I take your suggestions very seriously. This is something we ourselves are talking about. I can only say that I agree with you that it is very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u478	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u479	Seriously. "I take your suggestion seriously." It's been playing since the summer! You go first in the fight when politicians cross the line, when drivers make mistakes. And rightly so, of course we should. But now it happens to you in the party and I address you as party leader. You can say here what you are going to do and whether or not you are going to report it. That is the central question. If you really have such big words about fraud being committed, then I want it to be reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u480	I believe that I have now said three times that an attempt at fraud has been thwarted. So there is no way that it actually came to this; that is something else. Moreover, this is independent of the seriousness of the facts and allegations found and of a number of other words other than the word you just used. I also think that I have indicated that, firstly, we have acted internally, quite clearly. Of course, we have experienced a great deal of pain and disadvantage and so on. And I indicated that I then laid it down with other people, who have to do so, because I do not want the appearance to arise that there would be a personal conflict that is separate from the organisational and integrity issues. So that's where it is now. And I very much support what I have said so far, namely that the decision we have taken, i.e. the sentence, is serious enough. One. And two, that there are enormous disadvantages, political disadvantages, to a process that lasts endlessly and so on. So I can very well imagine that we are not doing that. Again, I leave it to the executive board to look at this matter again. Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u481	That is a completely different interpretation of party leadership than DENK. Not so long ago, two years ago, Mr Baudet had his maiden speech here in the Chamber. He started with some chatter in Latin about the party cartel. Meanwhile, we see that a number of news items have accumulated in a short period of time. Let me mention a few. People are thrown out of the party, a private jet to Ibiza, plants for €9,000. I wonder if there's a political party in this Chamber that has plants for $9,000. Is that Mr Baudet's new party cartel?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u482	Yeah, it's kind of everything in the pile, isn't it? There's a lot of stuff coming up, and I know what's going on. But er...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u483	I didn't see that coming from Mr Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u484	We do indeed attach great importance to green...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u485	... and we think it's important to invest in plants, in trees, that sort of thing. In addition, I fully support Mr Kuzu's suggestion that the Forum for Democracy should be an innovative movement leading the way in transparency, new politics and ambition. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u486	God, Allah, whatever god you believe in or don't believe at all, forbid Forum for Democracy be given power, because then it would be normal to fly a private jet to Ibiza, with journalists, to do all kinds of other things that seem like conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u487	Ah boy, cut it out, what a bunch of crap!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u488	That's not bullshit at all. These are serious, real questions. Mr Baudet can dismiss it as bullshit, but hasn't Mr Baudet, in the past period, actually just tried to become part of the party cartel? Is it actually some kind of game he's been sobbing into?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u489	No, I don't think so. I don't recognize myself in that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u490	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u491	I think a lot of people recognize themselves in that image. Because it's kind of weird when you fly a private jet to Ibiza, when you get plants for €9,000 and then you take them off with "yes, we love green" and you also say to a colleague "if you have any questions to ask me, please send me an e-mail." I have not been able to observe a more serious form of party cartel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u492	Okay, let's get this over with. Apparently Mr Kuzu and others want... Okay, one...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u493	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u494	So, Mr President, Mr Baudet should never again take the word 'party cartel' in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u495	Yeah, I think it's all... Of course, it doesn't have that much to do with each other. Who is interested is welcome, but receipts about interiors, flowerpots, plants, desk chairs, I know what... Anyway, you're welcome to come and see me. There's really nothing going on, nothing weird at all. Two. I've already indicated that we'll see what people want to know about when you're going on a city trip with friends. That's all very well and at your service. I'll discuss that internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u496	And three. I really don't see what's so much fuss about. But I have already said: I will discuss what the arrangements are with the Chamber to tell or not to tell. One time I might go with someone in the back of the bike and someone else might have a plane you can go with. That's nice. The third point. It's not like I'm saying: just send me an e-mail, then you might get an answer as to what my views are. No, this is what I did. I've made the necessary decisions to protect the integrity of the party. Then I expanded the board, where we agreed on a separation of tasks. I think that's very healthy. That is what all political parties have, in which the political leader is not about the elaboration of organisational matters. Dijkhoff and Rutte were not going to talk endlessly about the issue of Henry Emperor. That's what the party organization was about. I believe that this is a normal course of action in any political party. I said what I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u497	I will deliver Mr Baudet from this embarrassing moment by addressing another subject. It's a serious subject. Mr Baudet started his speech with a kind of Pride on the Dutch story. Why do Mr Baudet and the Forum always choose for democracy when it comes to Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u498	I don't think I've ever chosen Russia before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u499	Recently, a few weeks ago, we had a very painful moment for the Netherlands. In Ukraine, in Ukrainian airspace, a plane was shot out of the sky, the MH17. More than 200 people were killed, of which 196 were Dutch. Recently, Ukraine and Russia made a prisoner exchange whereby one of the main suspects involved in the shooting of the Russian BUK missile was extradited to Russia. As a result, he can probably never appear before the courts in the Netherlands again in order to be judged for this terrible act. From left to right, the European Parliament called on the Ukrainian President to stop the exchange of prisoners and not to hand over the prime suspect to Russia. All the Dutch political families represented in the European Parliament have signed this call, except for one party: the Forum for Democracy. Aren't you ashamed of that, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u500	I do not know exactly what you are referring to, but last week we supported a call to ask Russia to extradite this gentleman. I do not know exactly what vote you are referring to in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u501	It is in a tradition of Mr Baudet to question the investigation into the MH17 disaster and to send letters to all kinds of world leaders to discredit the research. When the European Parliament calls on the Ukrainian President, a plea in fact, to prevent a prime suspect from being extradited, so that the UN resolution to keep all suspects available for a trial that we all wish to conduct, in honor of the Dutch victims and all their relatives, will not give the Democracy Forum at home every time. That is why I ask you once again: if you have beautiful stories here about your pride in the Netherlands, why do you always choose Russian interests in one of our national tragedies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u502	I'm not. I do not know what vote you are referring to in the European Parliament. I know that we voted in this Parliament last week. The Democracy Forum then voted in favour of a call to Russia to extradite this person and to cooperate in the investigation. I do not know what vote you are referring to, so you should give me some more precise information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u503	I will see to it that it reaches Mr Baudet. Now making requests to Russia is, of course, mustard after the meal, because we should have stood up as one strong front when the suspect was still in Ukraine and we could have stopped extradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u504	Again, I don't know what vote you mean. So I can't tell whether it's true or not. It could be a made-up story from Mr. Jetten. I don't know what he means. I don't know what he's referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u505	I'll get it all to you. I really appeal to the Forum for Democracy to join all other political parties every time it comes to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u506	You mean all the...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u507	... MH17 to choose the Dutch interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u508	Do you mean all the Dutch political parties or the whole European Parliament? What are you talking about? The whole European Parliament? What kind of vote are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u509	Perhaps you could come back to that later, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u510	All Dutch political families in the European Parliament supported this call, with the exception of the Forum for Democracy. From almost every European Member State there were people who supported the Dutch call. I'll make sure the letter gets to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u511	I don't know what you're talking about. So I'm very curious. I will certainly respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u512	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u513	But it is absolutely not true that we choose Russia or any other country. We choose the Netherlands. There's only one country we choose. This means that we do not think that the world is divided into countries that are forever our friend and countries that are forever our enemy. In geopolitical terms, we are pursuing a'real political' agenda. There are a number of problems that I have to deal with: economic problems, but also cultural problems, not feeling at home, increasing crime, the pressure on the housing market and the labour market, and the fact that our pensions are being evaporated. My view is that all these problems together are caused by three major projects that dominate all policy in the background. All established parties are more or less in favour of this: from left to right and from GroenLinks to VVD, CDA, D66 and the Labour Party. Firstly, this is continued immigration, secondly, European unification and thirdly, climate policy. In the last year alone, another immigration record was broken. This week alone it became known that, while the housing market is exploding, fewer and fewer people can find a house. 40 million will be allocated to the construction of a mega-azc. Since today, there has been a new record in the number of refugees coming on boats to Greece. Last year, the Marrakesh migration pact was signed. In more than half of the cases proceedings are not deported. Nor is the government rushing to repatriate Syrian status holders, even though the overwhelming part of Syrian territory is now safe. In short, with all kinds of policies we support the structural demographic transformation of the Netherlands. Secondly, European unification and the euro coin. The Brussels project must and will continue. Everyone agrees on this, too, across the board of the established parties. One wants that a little less, the other a little slower, but it just goes on. This week it was announced that pensions will most likely be reduced. That was very predictable. This is due to quantitative easing; the policy of printing money, which is necessary in order to pay the southern European debt. Apparently, they're willing to pay that price. Apparently, this European project is intended to continue, even though we have to pay for southern European debts in Greece, Italy and possibly Portugal and Spain. It's all okay with people. It's the course that one sees ahead. The third megaproject is the climate project and the energy transition. This means that in the next 30 years, up to 2050, our country will almost completely have to get rid of fossil fuels. We think this is going to cost a thousand billion, for up to 0.00007° less warming. People are hiding behind the middle moment in ten years. They say it only costs a few billion a year. Eventually, the costs are much higher. They're cloaking that a little bit. People don't really want to talk about it. They say we can make money out of this. But the underlying reason or cause is that one believes in this megaprogress and in the transition. We don't want these three things. In this respect, the Forum for Democracy is fundamentally different from the established parties. We do not want our country to lose its character because of mass immigration. We do not want all our money to be channelled to southern Europe. We don't want our country to become one big windmill pilot project. I have often wondered how it is possible that the established parties not only in the Netherlands but throughout the western world have attached themselves to these three major projects. Without any doubt, they will lead the end of our country and the end of our civilization. A massive demographic transformation. A huge burden of windmills, solar panels and so on. And a European unification project that will cost us all our prosperity. How is it that the most beautiful continent, in the most interesting civilization there has ever been, has sounded like this in those three suicidal projects? How can the Netherlands, this beautiful Netherlands, let this happen? I think this is because the world view of the established power is one of those whose political thinking was decisively influenced in the 1990s. When the Wall fell in 1989, history was over. All countries in the world would become liberal, democratic and free. The times of ideological struggle were definitely behind us and the world would now finally become one. No more boundaries, no more religion, like John Lennon once sang, and no more war. This became the prevailing thought, the spirit of the generation that is now on the buttons. Because of that underlying world view, they do not see in mass and persistent immigration a structural, permanent problem, but at most a temporary bump that needs to be taken for a moment, on their way to a world state, world peace and one humanity. That is why they do not see a structural problem in European integration, because cultural differences are temporary and overlappingly an issue of adaptation. That's why they want to build up the whole of the Netherlands with windmills and solar panels, because within a few years America and China will undoubtedly do the same and nobody in Africa will want an air conditioner because there too the concern about the planet will become number one priority. A dream image, inspired by the perhaps attractive ideal in Francis Fukuyama's End of History, but it remains a dream image, an image that doesn't add up. This country, this beautiful country, is more vulnerable and unique than people think. All these immigrants from far ends of the world will not become cozy Dutch people in two or three generations, if they are ever going to be. All these southern European countries do not become aware of Protestant working ethics. And all those windmills with which we shatter our money and destroy our landscape, find no imitation in other parts of the world. The only thing we do, in our blind ambition to lead the inevitable unification of all human children and to be a guide country in abolishing ourselves, is that we lose this island, this unique place on earth, this beacon of freedom, this land, this realm, this world of Rembrandt and De Ruyter, this Netherlands. The Forum for Democracy is not yet another political party, yet another player on the board. We want to change the board ourselves. We are a broad political and cultural movement which wants to bring about a paradigm change. Opposite The end of Fukuyama's history we present The Clash of Civilizations of Huntington. We want to end mass immigration by introducing the Australian immigration model. People only come in when they really bring something, come to add something to our country and have demonstrably affinity with our way of life. We're shutting down the climate plans. We no longer pay the debts of southern Europe. We invest all the prosperity that we free up, all the huge space in the economy and society in a smaller government, better education, better care and more security on the streets. More homes, more roads and more innovation. That space will be created. It's possible. If we don't give up everything for those three big projects, these grand sacrifices we make every day, the sky is the limit for our country. We can then turn the Netherlands into a global innovation hub. We can build an island in the North Sea on which we are building a new airport that is ready for the future. We are going to connect all parts of the country via hyperloops, very fast connections, so that people no longer have to live in one place, so that the countryside does not empty and we no longer have to be in traffic. We are going to develop and discover new forms of energy, such as thorium plants and other technologies that we have not yet discovered. That is the alternative that lies before us, at our fingertips, if we stop those three major projects that cost us all our prosperity. I'm kind of excited about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u514	I have a question about the second and third generation migrants who, of course, are not going to adapt to that Protestant labour ethic. I'm looking at my Catholic colleagues here. Do we also have adjustment problems? My grandmother is from Indonesia and my father is from Morocco. What adjustment problems do you see with me exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u515	Well, that's a difficult question. Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u516	You will understand that the members of the cabinet would like to answer this question. There are all kinds of examples of people with a migration background doing fantastic things in the Netherlands. I have mentioned that my family is also partly from the Netherlands-Indies and partly from France. It is very difficult to flatten the discussion on an individual case. But statistically speaking, what is of course important for policy is simply across the board that integration is incredibly lagging behind and causing incredible problems. Of course, you should focus on the positive examples, on the people who are doing well, but you should not close your eyes to the reality that there are a lot of people who are not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u517	I respond to that because a whole generation of young people are doing their utmost to move forward in this society. They fight against prejudice and discrimination. They're trying to climb up. What you're saying is pretty far-reaching. I have an optimistic picture of the future. And you say, even if you're the second or third generation, you're never gonna be that real Dutchman. That's what pessimism is all about. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u518	But I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u519	I think that's a shame, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u520	Yeah, but I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u521	That is why I make it personal and I ask it. You say that there are always individual cases. And: we need to look at it statistically. It is precisely those individual cases that are at stake. We can't flatten entire generations in the Netherlands. We must look at each individual and judge each individual as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u522	What Mr Klaver has put in my mouth, I did not say, nor did I mean. There are all kinds of examples of people from all over the world who are doing great in the Netherlands. But the problems of integration are very great. A very large group of people, also from the second and third generation, does not integrate and feels even less connected with the Netherlands than with the country where their ancestors come from, feels more related to Islam than with Dutch legislation, etc., etc. Those are facts. You could say, "I know someone." I know all kinds of people, too. Fantastic. All right. But the reality is that society is suffering from huge integration problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u523	I understood that last summer Mr Baudet was working on a summer manifesto for the Democracy Forum and that he said: I want to make the Forum for Democracy a liberal-conservative movement. We heard him this evening about protecting all kinds of Dutch standards and values. My question is quite simple: is there room for women's rights and self-determination for women in Mr Baudet's standards and values?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u524	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u525	"Of course." That's nice. However, many women, and fortunately also men, were recently outraged because Mr Baudet spoke somewhat condescendingly about women who are pursuing a career and said that this is mainly causing problems for the number of children we have in the Netherlands. He talked about abortion as a freaking individualization rather than the right of women in the Netherlands to have their own body. So the question is really very simple: is there room for women in the broad liberal-conservative movement of the Forum for Democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u526	Yes. I find this way of putting things in my mouth unpleasant and very strange. I didn't say any of this. This is all really weird. The answer is very simple: but of course, don't be absurd. There is nothing more important than that men, women, children, the elderly, everyone in the Netherlands can feel at home in the movement we want to be and in the country we want to build together. There can never be any doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u527	So despite the quote "today the day may even happen that new life is extinguished, in order to avoid disrupting individual freedom" by Mr Baudet, does he fully support the right of Dutch women to decide for themselves about their body and abortion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u528	Yeah, absolutely. If the thought that everyone should be the same is emancipation, then you are putting people back in a booth. I think it is the right idea that people should be able to become optimal themselves in the Netherlands, whatever that is. That's the idea. You're free to become who you are. That is indeed a liberal-conservative idea, for the element of liberation is great, but also the unitary element, community, is great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u529	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u530	I will go on, because you should come back to Mr Baudet more often. One week it's for a Nexit, the other week it's against. He's now one month for abortion and another month against. I am glad that Mr Baudet is now saying: you cannot put everyone in a booth; everyone must be free. Can we then part of your speech from just now on just skipping? Do migrants in the Netherlands and third and fourth generation Dutch people with a migrant background now also get the space to be themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u531	People get to be themselves. People have the space to be themselves. That is why we have also developed the Dutch Protection Act. We say that this is a number of fundamental principles that all people in the Netherlands must be able to claim. It is a fact that many of the customs and cultures from those distant regions of the world where these people come from are very oppressive and give rise to freedom. One example is, of course, the burqa. That's what we're fighting. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u532	Finally, Mr President. Mr Baudet therefore confirms that Dutch standards and values are about freedom and self-determination. I can get a guarantee from him that the Democracy Forum here in this Chamber will not argue in favour of restricting abortion legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u533	This has never been discussed, has it? I don't even understand where the questions come from. It is a sort of imaginary policy that Mr Jetten is pursuing. There are all these quotes and things in my mouth that I do not recognize at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u534	I'm not gonna put anything in his mouth. Those quotes are from Mr Baudet himself. That is the crux of the political debate. If you say something, you could be confronted with it. Then you'll have to answer for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u535	Surely in an essay you can very well raise all kinds of issues without having to have the consequences that Mr Jetten is reading in a kind of pavlov reflex? You can say very well that we can ask ourselves all kinds of questions for once, without that immediately meaning that I obviously want to ban it. Isn't that something else? You can say, guys, we might as well ask ourselves if it's fun to have X, Y, Z. I think that's part of a free society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u536	I think you've said a lot about this, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u537	One sentence, then. I simply note that women in the Netherlands who are watching this debate still do not know what Forum for Democracy stands for when it comes to women's rights even after this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u538	I don't think that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u539	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u540	Thank you, Mr President. "Whoever sees the world realizes how special it is to live in a country in which people can feel safe, in which freedom goes hand in hand with tolerance and sense of responsibility." That was the beginning of the Throne speech yesterday. It got me thinking. It sounds wonderful, but I sincerely wonder if we live in a country in which people can feel safe and where freedom goes together with tolerance towards each other. That'd be great. But aren't groups in society mainly confronted? Isn't politics involved? Secular against religious, common Dutchman against other Dutch people, young people against the elderly, people against animals. The appointment of groups can of course be useful to indicate what you are talking about and which individuals together need more protection or other measures, but it goes wrong if it contributes negatively to polarisation and makes a negative contribution to the political debate. People can't be put in boxes. In our debates, let us look for connection and take as a starting point that people are equal and pursue the same goals, regardless of gender, colour, orientation or belief. Let us conclude that animals also have rights, including to live by their nature, without pain or other discomfort, and therefore have intrinsic value. Mr. Chairman. Is there a generally-behaved sense of responsibility for the impact of our choices on others, humans and animals, society, nature, a living earth? If so, does the government support this, and to what extent? Are we safe at all if the government contests judicial rulings on climate policy and the nitrogen problem and presents with creative accounting new calculation models that allow the economy to continue to grow, to continue infrastructure projects and to expand mega stables, which make people and animals chronically ill? Does that make people feel safe? Can anyone walk the streets with a loved hand in hand or kissing? Can everyone live safely without being bullied away by the untolerant? Does everyone feel safe being themselves? For example, does the cabinet also have plans to provide extra support for Ihbti's people and to allow the transgenders to celebrate their lives? The government has the task of protecting its citizens and defending the fragile values in our country. Mr. Chairman. Today it has been more often about Salafism, about intolerance of people towards other lifestyles and the rule of law. What's the solution? Secular free education, perhaps. When people bravely wrestle away from a oppressive faith for them, whether Muslims, reformed or Jehovah's witnesses, we must guarantee their safety. People sometimes, for example, because they choose to love freely, are rejected by their community of faith, their families. Earlier this year, we debated the reprehensible Nashville declaration, about children who haven't seen their parents for months because the community of faith and ultimately their families felt that they lived in sin by choosing who they love. How can we receive and support these people? How can we support the mad minas and freethinkers of the Muslim community in their call to embrace their lives in freedom? But are we safe if our own government eavesdropping on innocent citizens and if additional safeguards in the Sleep Act, which was to prevent the widespread eavesdropping of innocent citizens, are not respected by the intelligence services, precisely those services that should keep us safe, but which deprive us of what is precisely a prerequisite for security, our privacy? Are we safe if the UWV and the Tax Administration, according to the cabinet's face of the government, put people in big financial troubles because of the debt industry? Can we make the citizen important again, the man who is manned by the bureaucracy, who is in debt, people who are fighting for their personal freedom? Mr. Chairman. Can we make people feel safe, even if the police themselves don't feel safe? What does the Cabinet do about it? Is the trusted face of the district cop coming back into the neighborhood, giving people a low-threshold point of contact? This morning I heard a detective on Radio 1 reacting in bewilderment to the cabinet's plans: fine words, but the concrete effect is lacking. Neighborhood agents still out there are being deployed for emergency relief. Suggestions of, for example, abuse and rape cannot be processed. There can be no research, because time is not there and the capacity is lacking. Mr. Chairman. The words of this workplace can just as easily be copied to the workplace of care and education. I would like to join the questions of GroenLinks, the SP and the PvdA on the problems in these sectors. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we heard this statement in the Knight's Room: "Trust in the future also has to do with the way people feel represented." Does it give confidence in the future if this cabinet concludes agreement after agreement with the business community, for example the widely discussed Prevention Agreement, whereby unenforceable agreements are made and the burden placed on citizens rather than on multinationals, who have made their earning model to make people, young adults and even children addicted to unhealthy food? And that while the VAT on a first living need as fruit and vegetables remains increased from 6% to 9%. Will the Prime Minister promise that this VAT increase will now be reversed? Mr. Chairman. Do people have confidence in the future if hard work is not rewarded, if purchasing power hardly increases, but rather decreases, if pensions are cut and all kinds of weird tax structures cause people to decline when they start working more? Today, the Council of State is calling the alarm clock for working poor people. For flex workers, bogus self-employed persons and part-time workers, poverty is relatively common. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. Our economy is still robust, let the Minister of Finance know. But what is meant by "a robust economy"? How can our economy be robust when we run into ecological boundaries? If the amount of raw materials that the Earth can offer us annually is made up every year earlier and earlier in the year? The Netherlands is not robust because of the highly flexible economy. More and more people find it difficult to live in the Netherlands. What is the government going to do about this in concrete terms? How is this government going to end the precariate? Mr. Chairman. In spite of the judge's nitrogen ruling, is the cabinet going to build additional houses? How? Is that at the expense of the scarce greenery in the Netherlands? How is the cabinet going to ensure that people get a suitable roof over their heads and can live in a healthy, green environment? From the minimum of 48 m of green per inhabitant recommended by the UN, the Netherlands is getting further and further away, as the cape rage in this country makes the last pieces of forest disappear. Will the cabinet review these plans and align them with the general interest to keep the Netherlands and the earth viable? Mr. Chairman. Do people still feel represented by the people's representatives, by the so-called traditional political parties? Because shouldn't we all strive for the same goals? Who picks up the gauntlet to unite the supporters of the progressive liberal parties who take universal values and the upliftment of the individual as their starting point? Shouldn't there be more cooperation? Should not only members of parliament be able to carry out their elected tasks independently and without burden, but in practice the power of the traditional political party should also be broken? As a result, every Member of Parliament really has the same right to speak, has the same support and no one has to go to a debate with flour in their mouths. Because people crave ideals, real ideals, not cheap election rhetoric that becomes sluts the more repeated they are. I think that the Netherlands needs a free, open debate and a revaluation of personal freedom and individual emancipation. A peaceful struggle of ideas, with the best idea gaining influence. A real debate, with a dot on the horizon at the end. We should not avoid difficult subjects. Mr. Chairman. Yes, let us have a broad debate on the state of our democracy. There is a fine report from the State Committee on Parliamentary System. And let us indeed talk about issues such as the return of the referendum and the reduction of the electoral age. Dutch citizens want to participate actively and take their own destiny into their own hands. Give back that power to the people. That is raising and restoring confidence in politics and in our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-18-tweedekamer-5.u541	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Before I close, I'd like to say something. While we are debating the Millions note, the death of the lawyer Derk Wiersum is a shock throughout the Netherlands. It is horrible and it is unprecedented for our rule of law. He's 44 years old and has two children. On behalf of the whole Chamber, I wish his wife, his friends, his loved ones and his family a great deal of strength.
