ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Fertilisers Act to take account of a temporary increase in the rate of skimming in the event of a transfer from phosphate law. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to the First Chamber for the last debate, as I have just said. I'd almost say we're going down fighting, but we're not going down. We are really going to end this parliamentary term with the last debate this Chamber is holding in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although the Dutch dairy products are world-famous and Dutch dairy farming is of very high quality, dairy farming is often dismissed as a kind of environmental criminal. A large part of the so-called climate problem is wrongly put on their plate. The sector suffers from all kinds of complex rules which are no longer easy for a normal person to follow. With the Climate Act in hand, the political elite will not hesitate to attract the noose around livestock farming even further. It seems as if the Brussels friends want to get rid of Dutch livestock farming. Recently, we have also seen Brussels mercilessly overturning innovative pulse trawling. Mr. Chairman. Strict regulations on manure production are used to contain and reduce livestock as much as possible. For example, on 1 January 2018, a system of phosphate rights entered into force to keep phosphate production for dairy farming below the limit of 84.9 million kilos. On 2 July 2015, phosphate rights expressed in kilograms of phosphate were allocated to a farm based on the quantity of dairy products present on that farm and the excrement deposits. This seems to work, because phosphate production is at 76.9 million kilos in the first quarter of 2019, so well below the ceiling. In practice, therefore, nothing is going on. At that time, in 2018, even a generic discount of 8.3% was applied in the allocation of the number of phosphate rights. This was because, initially, the allocation granted 4.5 million too much allowances. Of these, 7.3% were used to get back below the ceiling and there was 1% reserve for the issuance of troubles. So there should be nothing wrong. However, the Minister does not have her papers in order and gets it up with the European Commission. Of course, the government wants to keep it friendly, especially now that the chair dance for the Brussels jobs has started again after the elections. Now it appears that the Minister himself has spent too many rights. How that came about is not really clear. This would be due to a lack of rights for beef farmers who, in turn, are not and now are covered by the phosphate system. It's to be heard of. In order to correct this, the dairy sector must surrender rights. This would amount to 1 million rights, of which 0.6 million were not even allocated to dairy farming. To make a big step, the Minister has started looting the phosphate bank. There's 420,000 kilos of duty. This looting will continue until phosphate rights return to the sector ceiling. For example, there is simply a line drawn by previous agreements. These skimming-off rights in the phosphate bank would benefit young, start-up farmers and would be used to promote land-based work, but this minister is making this deal easier because it is now a better time. The Minister then wants to increase the rate of skimming for the transfer of rights from 10% to 20%. Thus, when selling rights, the seller does not lose 10%, but 20% of the rights. Farmers who want to quit often still have to pay off a debt to the bank. An extra 10% skimming is a major financial setback for their old age provision. In short, with this proposal, the Minister is dipping both the starting and stopping farmers in dairy farming. Mr. Chairman. This way of acting is in stark contrast to the way in which other industries act, such as the producers of cheap fuel oil in which chemical waste is processed from around the world. Almost half of the world's marine fleet, 22,000 ships, comes to Rotterdam specifically to fuel cheaply and then blows the waste of an average of 100,000 litres of fuel oil per ship per day into the air. All this can be done because of the lack of adequate regulation. We often see that the government measures with double standards. While large oil producers such as Shell are getting away with a lot of things, we are dealing here with the Minister's phosphate accounts. Now the Minister, who has himself spent too much on phosphate rights, wants to bleed dairy farming, while dairy farmers keep the production of phosphate neatly below the sector ceiling. This does not jeopardise the extension of the derogation. Derogation is about production and not about rights. The PVV Group therefore considers it unacceptable that the Minister should now put the problem of dairy farming on the table. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that the excess of duties on phosphate production can contribute to this. In theory that is true, but in practice that is not the case now. The minister hasn't got the place in order himself. Why is it not chosen, for example, to buy back the excess of rights issued? After all, the Ministry itself has issued too many rights. I'd like a response from the Minister. If the Minister of Finance can raise 680 million to save KLM, it should also be possible to buy back 1 million phosphate rights to help our dairy farmers. Right? Or are our dairy farmers less important for e.g. the Netherlands? So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SP Group, I would like to thank the Minister for the words in the note we received on Saturday at the end of the afternoon. Unfortunately, with a few exceptions, these barely answered my group's questions in the report. An emergency treatment means fast and hard work. I have done this as a szp'er as well as I could expect the Minister and her officials to do so as an szp'er, chairman, is a senator without staff. The unanswered questions mean that I have to repeat questions and their context in the report. This makes the plenary procedure unnecessarily long. I would like to address three issues: firstly, the maximization of dairy production in the context of environmental degradation; secondly, the worrying emissions of phosphate......................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, I would like to give a summary and an appreciation of the proposal. When I talk about 'the pleading' in future, I mean the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal and I refer to 'the note' in relation to the Eerste Kamer report to this proposal. Mr. Chairman. My first topic concerns the broad context of the legislative proposal: the maximization of dairy farming production and the lack of containment of the associated nitrogen and phosphate emissions and the further disruption of the environment, including the climate, biodiversity and water management. At the end of the day, this is what we're talking about. More specifically, it concerns nitrogen and phosphate emissions from livestock manure production and the standards in force, specifically the standards for dairy farming in this legislative proposal. In general, it would be expected that the agricultural sector would be the first to be affected by these disruptions and that the Minister for Agriculture and Nature would do likewise. On the other hand, this bill, like the previous one in the series, seems to be aimed at achieving the maximumisation of production which is just permissible under the nitrogen and phosphate standards of the European Union and under the Dutch derogation position above those standards, while the Netherlands exceeds those exceptional standards. I ask the Minister of LNV why it is allowing the Dutch livestock sector to fall completely behind in the mitigation of these environmental distortions rather than in the first place. It's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u6	11:30!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u7	I would like to add this sentence, which is important. The average is the same as for the above. There are certainly many dairy farmers who do care about these disruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Reuten talks about the sector exceeding the standards, but they are just below the production ceiling with phosphates, right? They're just playing by the rules, aren't they? So why is there an overrun?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u10	In any case, it does not apply to nitrogen emissions, which is essential in the Nitrates Directive. I shall explain this later in the next part of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u12	I'd still like to catch up on that nitrogen. Everyone knows that nitrogen is very difficult to measure. That is why this has also been linked to phosphates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u13	Okay, I'll take that for a heads-up. I would then like to ask how the Minister places the continuing disruption I have just mentioned within the framework of Article 21 of the Constitution. That article states: "The concern of the government is aimed at the habitability of the country and the protection and improvement of the environment." The Constitution therefore calls for improvements in the environment. This bill aims to strengthen the instruments of the so-called phosphate rights system for dairy farming. This is not wrong for the members of the SP Group, but it all seems minimalist and primarily focused on maintaining derogations, i.e. production above general EU standards. Does the Minister recognize this? If the environment is adequately taken care of, a proposal for an emergency law such as this one will not be necessary. I am charging this on the government and, with it, the Minister for Agriculture and its predecessors. It would be a good idea for the Minister, in view of these environmental changes, to endeavour quickly to end the Dutch derogation, the derogation, to set a deadline for the complete cessation and to further reduce nitrogen and phosphate emissions to neutral levels by means of descending ceilings. Circular agriculture can play an important role in this. Mr. Chairman. My second point concerns the level of nitrogen and phosphate emissions, where the Minister only controls the latter. The pleading states that in February 2019 the sector ceiling on phosphate duties for dairy farming was exceeded. That is to say, an overrun of even the Dutch exception position. I quote: "The total amount of phosphate rights in the market determines the maximum phosphate production by dairy cows that is possible in a calendar year. Indirectly, the maximum nitrogen production is also limited." The note repeats the last sentence. As far as nitrogen production is concerned, I note that phosphate production may be limited, but it is not parallel. In the report, I showed a graph of nitrogen and phosphate emissions based on CBS figures of 15 February 2019 which shows that nitrogen emissions increase significantly, especially after 2012, compared to phosphate emissions. Only then did I see more recent CBS figures from last May 27th 2018 showing an even greater discrepancy. The modified graph is in the written text of my speech. In fact, the increase in nitrogen emissions is at least as worrying as that of phosphate. For the total livestock sector, it reached 506 million kilograms in 2018 above the reference year 2002 relevant for derogation; then 504 million kilograms. From 2012 onwards, this is mainly the case in the dairy farming sector. In fact, from the first derogation in 2006, Dutch livestock emissions under the direction of the government are always on the verge instead of improving the environment far below. Asked about phosphate-disproportionate nitrogen emissions, the note states: "One of the main reasons for the higher nitrogen excretion in 2018 is the extreme weather conditions, which means that there is a high nitrogen content in roughage." But if this were the main reason, all weather conditions should have been extreme from 2012. I therefore ask the question again. Again, I would like to ask the question in the note whether the Minister considers the increase from 2012 to be worrying and, if so, what it is going to do about it. Mr. Chairman. I come to my third subject: the balancing of the two instruments for reducing phosphate emissions and the choice made by the Minister. As indicated in the previous issue, nitrogen emissions are outside the direct scope of the legislative proposal. According to the pleading, there are in principle two limiting instruments under the current law, namely, on the one hand, a generic reduction in phosphate emission allowances issued and, on the other hand, an increase in the reduction in the reduction in the transfer of phosphate emission rights. In milk jargon, the law calls the last discount "removal." The statement shows that the Minister clearly opts for an increase in skimming from 10% to 20%. The argument for this choice is rather limited and, as I will point out below, rather flawed as regards the balance between the two alternatives. The choice of skimming seems to be a starting point. I quote the beginning of the pleading: in order to avoid the need to impose a generic reduction in the future, 'this bill increases the rate of skimming applied to the transfer of phosphate rights from 10% to 20%'. More specifically, the Minister writes about the generic discount: "Applying a generic discount means reducing the phosphate right of all non-ground farmers. About 50% of dairy farmers are land-bound. This means that a large part of the farms will have to reduce the number of dairy cows, even if these farms have not grown since 2015, with all the consequences for the future prospects of the farm and the farmer's income." This may be so, but the relevant issue is, given the purpose of that bill, what percentage of dairy withdrawal will be at additional generic reduction and what percentage of decline will result in the alternative of increased skimming. Can the Minister answer this question? That is an essential question, and the answer to it will be essential. Due to the likely price increase of traded phosphate rights under the additional creaming alternative, farmers could also be affected who have not grown since 2015. Furthermore, the alternative of extra creaming through the so-called latent phosphate space sends to maximize production at the applicable ceiling. Climate, biodiversity and water management are not served by this. I would point out that in the note the Minister rejects the generic discount because 'all livestock farmers benefiting from the reduction must reduce their livestock, which will result in more animals being brought to slaughter or exported. I want to avoid this from the point of view of animal welfare." This is a credit to the Minister, but once again the question is what the differences are between the two alternatives and the Minister has to answer the previous question. Then there is the question of the size of the group affected by one instrument or another. The whole group of non-land-based companies, 50% of the total, must bear a generic discount. In the alternative case, the same group, 50% of the total, should obtain phosphate rights at a higher price than at present. In my opinion, the number of transactions by which they obtain the statement and the note are not relevant. I agree with the Council of State's opinion that without precise figures which appear to be missing, it is not possible to determine in which of the two cases these non-land-based dairy farmers have to reduce their livestock more or less for business reasons. This removes the Minister's main argument to opt against a generic discount. An important figure missing, according to the note, is the percentage of the generic discount that would be necessary to achieve the same as the proposed additional skimming discount. The fact that the effort has not been made to calculate this generic discount rate seems to me to be a case of tunnel vision. In the letter of 2 June to the members of the First Chamber, an agricultural broker suggests that a generic discount rate of 0.5% to 0.8% as an alternative to the extra 10% skimming discount would achieve the intended goal. I cannot judge this sufficiently, but does the Minister suspect that it is such an order of magnitude? In a negative answer, can it indicate what order of magnitude we should think about? With regard to the increase in the rate of skimming and its effect on the price of phosphate duties, the Minister expects the measure to reduce the quantity of phosphate duties traded by 1%. It also expects this to have a limited effect on the price. Those are all expectations. It may have a limited effect, but it may also have a more than limited effect. This depends on how urgently buyers need these rights. A little further in the note, the Minister nevertheless notes the expected decrease in the quantity of traded phosphate duties in the increased creaming rate. In her view, it is sufficient to bring the number of duties below the ceiling. In the letter of 1 June to our Chamber, two sector organisations, NMV and DDB, write: "The Minister's measure of 20% skimming instead of 10%................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to give a summary of my speech and an appreciation of the legislative proposal. The proposal is a series of assumptions and uncertainties which should lead to one conclusion, namely the increase of the skimming discount. However, this leads to an uncertain result. A generic discount offers certainty. The Minister does not need this bill because the existing law gives it the opportunity to do so. The uncertainties relate in particular to animals which, according to the Minister, have to be brought forward to the slaughterhouse at a generic discount. That is the Minister's main argument against a generic discount. But the extra skimming discount doesn't rule out this resentment. The Minister does not give any comparative quantitative justification for her preference, which is therefore based on quicksand. This leads me to the unsolicited advice to the Minister to withdraw the bill and use the existing law for an additional generic discount. The previous part of my appreciation is based on the premise of the legislative proposal, which, within the derogation and state aid limits, aims at maximising the production of dairy farming, and thus at reducing the associated nitrogen and phosphate emissions. On the other hand, constitutional protection and improvement of the environment, including climate and biodiversity, requires radically different policies, including the reduction of the derogation as soon as possible. To that end, I call on the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's concise answers to the seven questions I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Reuten. I wish the Minister every success. You know, the deadline is 11:30, for all of us here. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. The phosphate problem with the nitrate problem in its wake, including the failing PAS regulation, continues to haunt us. For that we do not have to agree on all the problems with manure fraud and manure processing fraud. We now have to see that the number of phosphate rights for the dairy sector has grown so far that it no longer guarantees that phosphate production can remain below the sector ceiling. This is, of course, a major disappointment for the Minister, which forces her to find a solution, because nobody wants to lose the derogation overnight. But every solution of course results in opposition. I also understand that the Minister has opted for the solution which seems to be the easiest to implement and which seems to be spreading the consequences most widely. It is therefore the solution that seems to hurt the least: increasing the rate of skimming in the transfer of phosphate rights. But, of course, that measure does provoke indignation. Options are limited: this skimming measure or a generic discount for non-ground dairy farmers or, as suggested, the purchase of phosphate rights by the government. This latter possibility does not seem obvious because it can be seen as State aid. Moreover, it may also be reasonable for the sector's problem to be solved within the sector. As mentioned above, the removal of duties seems to be the easiest solution and also the easiest solution to sell. Yet this choice, and not for the first time, raises the question of what we are actually doing. The Minister has, to the satisfaction of almost everyone, appointed circular agriculture as the objective to be pursued by agricultural policy. This should mean that all policies that are being taken should contribute to this. Without targeted measures, we will not be able to do so. But the reality is, in my opinion, that we are stuck in crisis measures which save the cabbage and the goat, affect the whole sector equally and therefore do not contribute to the achievement of the objective set. Corridor farming must mean a high degree of land-boundness in the livestock sector. I hope the Minister agrees with me. The intention to store the skimmed phosphate rights in the phosphate bank and then to benefit the soil-based livestock farming is, as far as I can see, the only policy that is aimed at stimulating that soil-boundness. This phosphate bank is now being used for the time being to clean up the excess duty and no measures are being provided for to compensate for this in the long term. Does the Minister agree with me that we are therefore again engaged in crisis measures that do not contribute or even contribute negatively to achieving the objective of circular agriculture? The Minister did not answer that question in writing either. Mr. Chairman. Unthank you, as I said, for not fully understanding the choice made by the Minister, but I would like to ask her whether it is time that we did not choose the easiest route in our actions, but made a clear choice. If we wanted to do so, would a generic discount on non-ground livestock be too obvious? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a simple and limited legislative proposal, especially when we rely on the number of words, the number of pages or the number of articles in the Fertilisers Act that is being amended. In part, it is the appearance that is deceiving, because there is a world behind sector ceilings, the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme, the phosphate rights system and the European Commission's decision to derogate. Moreover, there is a world behind dairy farmers who have to make choices, perhaps a little faster than thought and perhaps a little more radical than thought, about the future of their farm. Otherwise, in both the explanatory statement and the answer to the questions from both First and Second Chambers, we note that the government is always trying to reduce the proposal to this simplicity and limitation. No reflections on the large impact of phosphate and nitrogen on nature and the environment or the impact of large livestock on biodiversity. It concerns agreements on maximum permitted production of phosphate and nitrogen. It is about how to stay below the sector ceiling. The calculation has been made quickly: 85.8 million kilos is more than 84.9 million kilos and that is still to be fixed in 2019. First of all, can the Minister explain to us why 20% was chosen? Indeed, is it not much more than the calculation that says that 10% of phosphate duty has been extracted from 0.4 million kilos in 2018, this will result in a doubling of the percentage to about 0.8 million kilos and perhaps more? Reference is made to the somewhat abstract concept of "late space" and the assumption that farmers who stop or phase out will transfer the unused rights. It is assumed that the price effect of a higher rate of skimming is limited. On the other hand, there is another assumption that this percentage makes trade in phosphate rights less attractive, but is not expected to be significantly reduced in phosphate rights. Finally, it is also assumed that only a small part of the transactions will be accelerated by the announcement effect in order to be able to use the 10%. That's a lot of expectations and assumptions. I will follow Mr Reuten from the SP. Hence the question to the Minister as to how likely it is that the duties will come below the ceiling with this increase and how likely it is to have to go back to the Chamber with a proposal to go to 25% or 30% in some time. We note that the route back to 10% can be followed by royal decree, but a further increase actually seems to require a new legislative amendment. Another assumption is that the burden of a higher rate of skimming is shared among a larger group of farmers than the burden associated with a generic reduction. In the latter variant, the phosphate rights of all non-ground-based dairy farmers shall be reduced. In any case, the discount has the clear advantage that there is great certainty that phosphate duties will be below the ceiling. Can the Minister state again clearly what, in her view, are the main disadvantages of a generic discount? I am not referring to the more quantitative measure of the number of farmers involved; the answer is relatively clear. What matters to me is how, on the one hand, the increase in the rate of skimming and on the other hand, the generic reduction relate to each other as two types of policy instruments or policy interventions, if you like. What are the expected effects of both measures and how are both aspects of legality and feasibility also weighed? The kilograms of phosphate extracted can be used to exempt young land-based farmers from the phosphate rights system. However, last year the cabinet decided not to open up the phosphate bank for the time being. From the written answer it actually sounds that this is not to be expected soon either. Moreover, the message sounds somewhat duplicated: on the one hand, it is stated that by increasing from 10% to 20%, it is more possible to open up. On the other hand, by amending the House of Representatives almost immediately after reducing the duties to just below the ceiling, the percentage returns to 10%. Does the Minister with GroenLinks believe that this undermines the purpose and use of the phosphate bank and sends a double signal to the land-based farmers who hope to be able to use this phosphate bank? I would also like to comment on this. Finally. Last week in the debate on the ban on asbestos roofs, I thought I was standing here for the last time for a plenary debate. Thanks to this Minister, who wanted this bill dealt with as a matter of urgency by both Chambers, another debate unexpectedly emerged. Given the nature of this proposal and also the framing by the cabinet, one could say that the debate has now focused on technical aspects such as the relationship between phosphate rights and phosphate production, the estimated effects of this skimming and the choice of an increase of 10% to 20%. Eventually, it is more interesting and challenging when the wider demand for the future of agriculture is at issue, questions about the feasibility and desirability of circular agriculture and the corresponding and conflicting interests of agriculture, nature and the environment, to which Mr Reuten also referred. These are questions which this Minister, as I myself have been able to experience during oral discussions and which certainly do not go out of the way during the debate on the agricultural budget. I therefore wish my successor many fine debates with this Minister. You can count on GroenLinks to continue to be critical and radical both in terms of agriculture and in terms of many other issues, but also constructive and balanced. For the future of agriculture continues to fascinate us all. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. You were not the only one who thought last week that the debate on asbestos was your last debate. You also had the opportunity to hold a debate today on your birthday, as well as a crown year, 40. Your life is just beginning! I give the floor to Mr Van Zandbrink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following on from your last statement, congratulations to Mr Binnema. That is indeed a beautiful age and the beginning of a beautiful period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u20	We can say that from experience, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u21	Yeah, I can say that from experience. Mr. Chairman. More than four years ago, the bill for responsible growth of dairy farming was dealt with in this Chamber. A number of you were also present in the debate at the time. The result was the closure of the milk quota system, which indirectly established the size of the dairy herd for decades. Those milk quota rules were simple and robust. The present bill is part of the manure regulation that followed the lifting of the milk quota. It is characterized by detailed rules. These are accompanied by higher burdens for farmers, but certainly also for the government. This detailed regulation is also a source of manure fraud. During the past period, members of the Labour Party have constantly called for attention to be paid to the incentives that lead to this manure fraud. The report on this subject has been promised by the Minister over and over again, but has not yet been received. This is all the more relevant because, in our opinion, the European Commission also attaches great importance to strengthening the approach to manure fraud. Can the Minister explain why she did not honour that commitment? And what is the relevance of this report for fruitful consultation with the European Commission? The conclusions of that fraud report are relevant to the assessment of the present legislative proposal. It may be assumed that land-based dairy farming has less incentive to fraud than livestock farming that is not land-based. Can the Minister give a reflection on that? And what significance does the Minister give to land-boundness in this bill and, looking ahead to the future, in the proposed revision of manure legislation? And what is its significance for circular agriculture? Mr. Chairman. It should be noted that the legislative proposal now before us again adds a rule of detail and amends a rule of detail. Recent developments such as legal rulings make this necessary. The system has no cushion to cope with such new developments. There's only one way left, and that's a change of law. Great flexibility in legislation is not desirable for various reasons. This brings us to the question of whether the Minister is prepared to explore, in the context of the proposed revision of the manure rules, how a buffer can be incorporated so that new developments do not directly lead to a change in the rules. The use of other legislation can also play a role as a cushion. The Environment Act, which also implements the government's concern for the quality of the environment, has a richly stocked instrument case. This is contrary to the proposal before us, which, as several speakers have pointed out, only has two buttons. The question to the Minister is therefore whether she is prepared to explore in the intended review of manure policy how the Environmental Law and its instruments can help to achieve the objectives of this bill. I come to a point that has already been mentioned by others. To make this bill work, a lively transfer of phosphate rights is needed. Does the Minister expect sufficient transfer of phosphate rights in the short term, in 2019? After all, that is the goal. And what is this expectation based on? Should trade be smaller, what is the result? Another law change? Has the Minister discussed this with the European Commission? Finally. The present legislative proposal is the result of agreements as set out in the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme, to which reference has already been made. During the written consultation on this subject, the Minister stated that major interventions will be required to achieve the intended water targets by 2027. The reduction of the dairy herd is a measure to be considered for us, also because it reduces the incentive to fraud. Some consider this measure undesirable because it leads to an undesirable reduction in the contribution of livestock farming to the gross national product. For the Labour Party, however, this is not the only economic number that is important. A decent income for the farmer who continues is certainly so important. Does a smaller dairy herd offer perspective on a decent income for that perpetual farmer? If so, under what conditions? Those are important questions for us. Is the Minister prepared to explore these questions in the preparation of the next Nitrates Directive action programme? Mr President, back to December 2014, when we dealt with the law Responsible Growth Dairy Farming. We looked back at a period when the rules for the size of the dairy herd were simple and robust. Let that be an inspiration for future manure regulation. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Van Zandbrink. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I too would, of course, like to begin by congratulating Mr Binnema. Madam President. The SGP Group has shown an understanding of the urgency with which the Minister intends to deal with this Law Amendment to the Fertilisers Act. That is why the accelerated process was supported. Nevertheless, questions were raised by the SGP Group regarding the legislative proposal, in particular with regard to the figures and legal basis. In concrete terms, the SGP group needed a clear numerical explanation per animal category. In addition, my group asked for a further legal clarification of the European Commission's call to bring the amount of phosphate rights below the dairy phosphate ceiling. Both elements are important for my group to arrive at a balanced assessment of the legislative proposal before us. Well, Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the speedy reply, but I must point out that the answers were not as detailed as they should have been. On the other hand, it has become clear to me that the Minister has made commitments in the House of Representatives, in particular with regard to figures, but also to share confidentially with the House of Representatives what the underlying motives of Europe were. Is the Minister prepared to share this information with this Chamber? Madam President. This is complex matter. In the phosphate debate we see several flight routes and registration systems running through each other that cloud clear vision. Phosphate rights are allocated on the basis of categories 100, 101 and 102 of the Fertilisers Act. That includes not only dairy cattle, but also meat cattle. The annual calculation of phosphate production for comparison with the dairy phosphate ceiling does not include young cattle for meat production. The phosphate rights shall take into account the I&R data, i.e. the data on the identification and registration of the animals. The production calculations also include the annual May-counting. I have the impression that it's easy to talk past each other. This does not help good decision-making, accountability and control. A concrete example. At the end of last year, the Minister presented a nice table indicating that 85.7 million kilograms of phosphate has been spent. The skimming 2018 has already been deducted from this. Of these, 0.8 million kilograms are in suckler cows. The phosphate production of these farms is not, in principle, covered by the dairy phosphate ceiling. If you subtract this from the 85.7 again, you're already on the dairy phosphate ceiling of 84.9 million kilos. In short, all this can lead to confusion. In order to avoid confusion, it might be useful for the Minister to provide more insight into how the different systems, such as phosphate production calculations and the dairy phosphate ceiling and phosphate allocation, relate to each other. Can the Minister undertake to do this? And, if so, at what time could this insight be provided? A clear commitment on this point can help my group in the decision-making process on this emergency act. Madam President, one final point. It seems that Europe is not dealing with our realised phosphate savings, but with the rights spent. As a result, there is actually no positive incentive. Or, more importantly, it seems that all the measures taken by farmers, including positive innovative solutions that are being devised, do not have any results in the assessment, because not the savings but the rights spent count. Is this observation correct? How is that to bend over in the future? I look forward to the Minister's response. Madam President, I note that I have achieved a one-minute reduction in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. You're right, and that's a win today: one minute faster than you signed up for. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mr President. "Afromen" is a very harsh word when it comes to phosphate rights. A brief look back in time shows that today's emergency treatment would not have been necessary if previous Cabinets had previously taken measures against the unbridled growth of livestock farming in the Netherlands. Already in 2015 it was clear to everyone who didn't close his eyes that there was a dike breach in the area of milk and manure surpluses. With the expiry of the milk quota, farmers were able to expand their milk production without being put in the way of a straw-breed. Secretary of State Dijksma of the PvdA didn't come out with coalition partner VVD and opted for a flight forward with an AMvB that left much to be desired. My group has made a vain attempt to stop this AMvB. 15 senators or 30 members of the House of Representatives would have been sufficient to regulate the enlargement criteria for the dairy sector by law, but it did not happen. Dutch dairy farmers already produced more than 12 billion kilos of milk in 2015, almost 57 billion kilos of poop and 14.4 billion kilos of greenhouse gases. In return, they received EUR 400 million a year from the EU, a completely distorted situation. Following the romantic image of a cow in the meadow organized the political land-based dairy farming. But that groundboundness turned out to be a dead letter. That land was allowed to lie far away from the farm, even in Germany or Belgium, so that control of manure disposal became virtually impossible. That control was barely there. According to the industry's insiders, between 30% and 40% of the manure was processed fraudulently at that time. The aim of the Milk Cattle Act was to achieve the regulated growth of dairy farming within established cross-compliance conditions. During the last two years before the end of the quota, a group of dairy farmers have milked considerably more than their milk quota allowed. They took the superlevy to be paid for nicely. For a liter of milk they got €0.39 and had to pay €0.27 superlevy: not very profitable, so apparently there was another purpose for it. In this way, a phosphate position was taken before the time after the milk quota. That strategy has been double rewarded. The Milk Cattle Act was based on a phosphate reference date of the end of 2013, which legalised the extraphosphate position. The 2015 AMvB also legalised the 2014 overrun. It was not verified in any way whether and, if so, how much phosphate was produced above the usage standard in 2013 and 2014. It was possible that a dairy farmer was far above the standard of use and did not need to use extra land because he had realized his expansion of production by November 2014, against the rules. A similar colleague who had waited neatly and wanted to expand similarly was forced to buy up land. In doing so, the cabinet created legal inequality within the sector. The cowboys were pampered. The more the phosphate standard was exceeded, the less there was to be paid. The aim was to produce 20% more milk with 9% more cows. Top sport, that's called in the sector. It is the cows who have to perform what they are not rewarded for but punished for. It's an injury-sensitive top sport. A quarter of Dutch dairy cows have udder infections and more than half have leg problems. We've known through the Animal Health Service for years that the nipples literally fall from the udders. There is an increase in severe diarrhoea among dairy cows. The lifespan of cows remains on average three and a half lactation periods. They are all injuries, pain and discomfort for the cow and for the calves, which are removed immediately after birth. At first, the sector was happy with the AMvB, then there were serious concerns about the implementation of individual companies, there was little monitoring of phosphate processing and there was a chance that the already massive evasion of the law would become much greater, because farmers would like to expand but not break the European phosphate problem. Mr. Chairman. We know that enlargement in livestock farming is causing enormous disruption in the areas of nature, environment and climate. More milk leads to more phosphate, more nitrogen and more greenhouse gases. To comply with the Birds and Habitats Directive, the Netherlands uses the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. It consists of two components: producing less nitrogen and restoring its effects in nature. Farmers have installed air scrubbers on their stables and nitrogen is actively removed from nature by mowing and plaguing. But despite these measures, the amount of nitrogen in nature has not decreased. Environmental organisations conclude from this that the PAS does not work and cannot therefore be a basis for granting permits to nature. They have challenged hundreds of licences granted, up to the Council of State, and have asked the European Court whether the Dutch PAS can serve as a tool to comply with European directives. Last year, the European Court of Justice replied that a country may adopt such an approach, provided that it has been scientifically proven to work. The latter is not the case in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Soft healers make stinky wounds. When does the Minister come up with a vision in which she makes it clear to the Chamber what is no longer possible in the field of phosphate and nitrogen in livestock farming? When is it going to come up with a serious proposal on what can still be done within these limits? At the Ministry there is simply knowledge about the environmental objectives and the nature objectives within which we must remain, especially after the clear rulings of the European Court of Justice and the Council of State. We know what the long-term space is. Anyone who says that farmers have a right to clarity should simply put their hands into their own bosom, because that clarity is not provided. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a settleable medium-term vision until 2030, when the climate targets need to be met? This must include livestock farming with its effects on nitrogen, phosphate and climate. I'd like a response from the Minister. I'm considering a motion on this point. The phosphate rights system came too late. It was chosen to leave the sector completely free to go. The sector has exceeded all limits and has sacrificed 160,000 healthy, often pregnant cows on the altar of the economy. Only when integrated policies are made will it become clear to everyone that we need to move forward with a much smaller sector. In this way, we avoid this kind of debate, this kind of repair proposal. The mopping with the tap open, the wasting of milk, we can finally stop. The Council of State is critical of this bill and feels more like a generic discount. Can the Minister clarify why too many rights have been issued and to whom? Can the Minister make it clear in a letter which complaints and objections are involved? That information was missing from the answers so far. Can the Minister indicate how we should indicate the ruling of the Board of Appeal for Industry that 300 000 phosphate rights should still be granted to livestock farmers who are currently outside the sector ceiling, unless the livestock farmers sell the rights to dairy farmers? What does this change of law do to prevent that problem? Mr. Chairman. My group tends, depending on the Minister's answers, to support this sloppy repair, but we note that knitting is on a sweater that is not going to work. We also note that this repair would have been unnecessary if governing had also meant looking ahead at the Ministry of LNV. I would like to hear from the Minister whether and in what way she is prepared to come up with an integrated vision of the future for which she can be addressed and which makes further repairs such as this superfluous. Thank you. Mr President, another minute and a half won.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I believe that now everyone is trying to win minutes. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Yes. That's how we're gonna win more minutes. I now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I will start efficiently with the answers to the questions asked, but not without a very big thank you for your Chamber's willingness to deal with this bill at this particular time and at this speed. I really appreciate that. It also underlines your commitment to all aspects of agriculture. I have been able to experience them myself for the last year and a half. The fact that you are sitting here and want to deal with this bill underlines this once again. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Binnema warmly. I can agree that life really starts at 40. You're going to have a good time. Mrs Faber says that too many rights have been issued and that there is a solution, namely: you can buy back the rights yourself. Why isn't that happening? The purchase of phosphate rights is not possible. The granting of phosphate rights has been assessed by the European Commission as authorised State aid. However, the European Commission also indicates that the number of allowances should be reduced to below the ceiling, precisely because it is state aid. Buying up these rights by the Empire would mean that new, and this time illegal, state aid would be granted. Furthermore, the Fertilisers Act also provides that phosphate rights can be traded between companies. You can find a lot about the State, but we are not a company to my knowledge, not even on the basis of the law, and I can't buy those rights. That's why that route wasn't followed. Mr Reuten made a detailed statement with many considerations. I've been trying to narrow his questions down to about three blocks. I'll try to answer that. Firstly, Mr Reuten asks for an examination of the Dutch livestock sector on the one hand, and on the other hand my duty and duty to ensure what Article 21 of the Constitution says: the habitability of the country and the protection and improvement of the environment; in fact, the relationship to it. Article 21 of the Constitution indeed indicates that public concerns are aimed at protecting the environment. I take that task seriously, too. Of course, I'd almost say, but that's what I feel intrinsically about. This is precisely what the phosphate rights system provides for; I hope, like other parts of the manure policy. Moreover, the environment is not the only point on which the public authorities focus. There is, of course, always a balance of interests here, and that is also the debate we are having here in this Chamber. I share Mr Reuten's view that action should be taken if there is disruption. He states that this bill is only aimed at maintaining the derogation. I dispute that, because the purpose of the legislative proposal is precisely to bring the amount of phosphate rights in dairy farming back below the sectoral ceiling. That is the ceiling that ensures that phosphate production cannot exceed the ceiling. That's what it was all about once. The increase in the rate of skimming is not intended to maximize production, but at the same time does not have to lead to a lower phosphate production than is permitted. The legislator has set a ceiling. Everyone has to stick to that. This includes a number of rights and the purpose of the bill is to bring those rights into line with the amount that is allowed. Ensuring the production ceiling aims at environmental and water quality. That is indeed what Mr Reuten referred to in the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme. The maintenance of the derogation is an indirect objective, you might say. It is not an end in itself with this bill, but in order to maintain that derogation, many conditions are set by the European Commission. I would also like to say that the maintenance of a derogation is important. It looks at the use of manure and not at the production of manure. Because we have certain landscape qualities, we can also allow more manure on certain land. That's something that's being looked at. For example, if 80% is grassland, this includes determining the amount of animal manure that may be used on land. Moreover, this is also justified from an environmental point of view and, in Mr Reuten's words, not disruptive. We keep a good record of, for example, the quality of water in derogation companies, and we see that there is good compliance, precisely because it is subject to strict conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u28	I have another question about the derogation. Derogation is about production and this bill is about the number of rights. So in fact, this is just separate from each other, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u29	Derogation concerns the use of manure and not its production.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u30	But then there's a derogation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u32	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I think I have to be quick, because we don't have that much time. Now I'm off my toes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u33	Excuse me. Sorry about that, Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u34	In fact, that derogation is separate from this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u35	Seeing Sec, the derogation is not directly related to this bill. This bill aims to meet the requirements of the Netherlands with regard to production, where production is indeed lower than the ceiling, but also with regard to the amount of rights granted from Europe and which we were allowed to issue. Those rights have a value and the European Commission therefore says that this is state aid. You're giving away something for free that starts to get pretty high value after that. You can do that up to a certain limit, otherwise you will give state aid. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to bring the amount of rights into line with the amount authorised by the European Commission. I cannot deny that the European Commission will look at how the Netherlands complies with the commitments that apply to the whole phosphate production dossier. Secondly, Mr Reuten has questions about nitrogen emissions and also about the relationship between phosphate and nitrogen. He quotes what I said, that one of the main reasons for the higher nitrogen excretion in 2018 is the extreme weather conditions. He asks me whether I consider the increase in nitrogen production since 2012 to be worrying and also what I am going to do about it. Phosphate and nitrogen production by the dairy sector depend on different factors, such as milk production per cow, the total number of animals kept and also the ration composition. Mr Reuten also rightly notes that nitrogen production by the dairy sector has increased since 2012. The factors mentioned have really influenced this in different ways. The number of animals and the feed composition are particularly important. The number of animals has increased around the abolition of the milk quota in 2015 and it has also been recalled here by many members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, but has declined again with the introduction of the phosphate rights system. On the basis of animal numbers, therefore, a reduction in nitrogen production in recent years would be expected. After all, between 2012 and 2015, the size of the dairy herd grew, then it fell again, even significantly due to the phosphate production plan in 2017. Another factor is the ration composition. Dairy cows usually receive the bulk of roughage, supplemented by compound feed. A farmer has some influence on the composition of the compound feed. A lower level of nitrogen, protein and phosphorus can be chosen to reduce nitrogen and phosphate excretion. We have seen that this has been quite successful in the case of phosphate in recent years, because phosphate production has fallen considerably. This is also largely due to the ration. And also the proportion of nitrogen in the compound feed has decreased, but much less than the phosphorus. A farmer has much less influence on the composition of roughage and is also dependent on weather influences. Rough fodder consists of grass, hay and maize. Cutting maize contains a lower level of phosphorus and protein, but the harvest has been relatively low in recent years. Partly because of extreme weather conditions, think of last year's drought, and partly because of a lower area. Due to the warm and dry conditions in the summers of 2017 and especially 2018, the nitrogen levels in the grass are very high. Due to the fact that grass and grass are a large part of the ration, this has also had a significant impact on nitrogen production in recent years. This has therefore increased, despite the decrease in the number of cows in 2017 and 2018. So those are opposite movements. Weather conditions have not led to an increase in phosphorus in roughage. This also explains, to a large extent, that phosphate and nitrogen production have evolved in recent years. In the case of phosphate, the weather conditions have hardly had an impact, certainly in the case of nitrogen. In summary, the growth in nitrogen excretion has been mainly due to the ration composition in recent years, while the years before that the growing number of animals affected. Moreover, that is precisely why I have agreed with the European Commission that the final figures on phosphate and nitrogen excretion should be taken into account with the average roughage composition of the previous five years, with the exception of the two most extreme years, otherwise, every last year would be very decisive in determining the average nitrogen production. This agreement also mitigates the effect of the weather influences on phosphate and nitrogen excretion rates. The final figures for 2018 will be delivered by the CBS before the summer. In my letter of 24 May last, I informed the House of Representatives about the discussions I had with the sector organisations on high nitrogen production, because I agree with Mr Reuten that this is too high and that it should go down. This has also led to a sectorial approach to reducing nitrogen production. This approach also focuses, among other things, on raising awareness among the farmer and steering through the feed track, in mixed feed and as far as possible in roughage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u36	I do not need a full explanation from the Minister, but I would like to have a commitment from the Minister concerning the measurement of nitrogen. Because it is well known that the measurement of nitrogen is very difficult, because it is often in the form of ammonia and that is a volatile gas. So does the Minister have the method of measuring? That is not entirely clear to us. If so, could she send that to this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen figures are delivered each year by the CBS. That's an independent agency. I don't deal with the calculations of the amount of nitrogen myself. The European Commission does not want that either. It simply wants an independent body to establish this. If Mrs Faber wants to know how these are determined, I can see if I can send a letter explaining it in full, if that meets her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u38	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to send a letter stating how the nitrogen is measured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u40	The bill controls phosphate emissions and expects nitrogen emissions to move along. It doesn't appear to be, if you look at the figures from 2012. From 2012 to 2018, you can see almost an upright, different line compared to phosphate emissions. In addition, there has indeed been a reduction in the quantity of dairy cows in the last two years. That makes it all the more remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u41	What's your question, Mr. Reuten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u42	In my view, more should be directed towards nitrogen emissions. The question is whether the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u43	I have just tried to explain in some detail what that difference is, so indeed that the number of animals has decreased compared to 2015, but that the weather conditions also influence the ration composition and that this also has an effect on nitrogen, more than on phosphate. And I have just indicated that I have also made agreements with the sector organisations that they will also be more committed to it. So I think I have already answered Mr Reuten's question, because the urgency is felt. Let me put it this way. Then I have a third block of questions from Mr Reuten. That is more about the justification and also why I choose a skimming rate and not a generic discount, in combination with what the level of the generic discount should be if we applied it. Mr Reuten asks whether it is true that it would be about 0.8% if we applied a generic discount. I would estimate that the reduction rate that would be necessary to bring the total amount of phosphate duty below the sector ceiling for dairy farming would indeed be around 0.8%. At the time of allocation, more than 24 million kilos of phosphate rights were allocated to land-based companies, but I do not have the figure of phosphate rights currently held by land-based companies. Action is being taken and there is not exactly a check mark on whether it goes to a land-based farm or a non-land-based farm. But let me take the 24 million as the starting point for calculating your question. If the distribution in terms of rights is still the same, non-ground-based companies would have some 62 million kilos of phosphate rights. If about 500,000 rights are to be reduced out of these 62 million rights, then you are in fact going to be about 0.8. But this is not included, I would like to stress that there are also companies with a relatively low phosphate surplus. In doing so, the amount of duties to be removed and the rate of reduction may also be increased as a result of, for example, the legal procedures currently in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u44	I'd like to get it sharp. Instead of increasing the rate of skimming from 10% to 20%, we could achieve the same by a generic reduction of about 0.8%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u45	I have just indicated that I do not currently have the exact figures on the amount of phosphate duty held by the land-based and non-land-based companies. However, on the basis of the issuance at the time of the number of phosphate rights to land-based companies and non-ground-based companies, this could be a percentage. But then the question arises: why not opt for a new generic discount? That was more the fundamental question put by Mr Reuten and by a number of other Members. If we were to do that, it would mean that all livestock farmers affected by the reduction would have to reduce their livestock, including farms which, I repeat, have not contributed anything to the growth of the sector. Companies which have not grown, whose number of animals has not increased, would also be affected by this reduction. Perhaps a reduction of 0.8% would be limited, but for an individual dairy farmer it does have an effect on his business. Another consequence, which I have also indicated in the reply, would be that these animals would be e.g. transported to slaughter. We saw the phosphate reduction plan in 2017. We have, I think, all the footage of how many animals had to be taken away at the time. That's just a bit of a scare for me, I'm just saying. I do not want all kinds of animals to be brought back to slaughter by taking a measure now. If we apply a generic discount to all farms, most farms will have to dispose of an animal immediately. But by choosing this system, for skimming, you use the latent space present. In other words, a farmer is going to sell a right the moment he has room left, not because he has to. He's got space left. He doesn't need that phosphate right and can sell it. There is no need for an animal to be disposed of. That's the point where we're gonna skim. So it does not directly affect the amount of animals that it can or cannot keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u46	I think you should not look at the seller of those rights but at the buyer. It is to be expected that the bill will increase the price of the rights. Dairy farmers will therefore be forced to buy rights at a higher price. In addition, as with the 0.8% generic reduction, there is a chance that cattle will have to be disposed of, that cattle will have to be sent to the slaughterhouse. It concerns the comparison between the two: how many animals should be sent to the slaughterhouse at the generic reduction of 0.8% and how many animals should be sent to the slaughterhouse at the increase of the skimming to 20%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u47	If there really is an exact justification of the amount of animals... I'm gonna try to report it again. Suppose a farmer doesn't need part of the phosphate rights, either because he quit his business, or because he just has space left. He's gonna sell those rights. He doesn't need it at the time, so it doesn't have to lead directly to the slaughter or export of the cows. That is the point we are taking to ensure that the amount of duty is reduced. If you opt for a generic discount, it is likely that in most cases the effect that farmers have to throw away animals is immediate. That's the difference between the two systems. Both have an impact on the price, because in the end we go towards scarcity. Those are the economic laws: when something becomes scarce in both cases, the price goes up. This is the case with a generic discount, because the remaining duties will then become more expensive. That also applies when we start skimming. So that has nothing to do with the kind of system. This has to do with increasing scarcity. Then there was the question: on how many more farms, on how many more dairy farmers would the skimming down the generic discount? We have seen that the group of farmers involved in a transaction in 2018 is larger than the group of non-ground dairy farmers. It was 12.115 versus 11,500 dairy farmers. We think the effect is a little bit more muffled when you do it with a general skimming rather than with a generic discount. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered Mr Reuten's questions. Mr Ten Hoeve asks whether I agree that circular agriculture means land-boundness and that not opening up a phosphate bank therefore also has an effect on whether or not the sector becomes more soil-bound. The primary objective of the phosphate rights system is, of course, to ensure that production, in any case, remains below the phosphate ceiling. But it is also true that the phosphate bank should encourage land-basedness. I would very much like to open up the phosphate bank as soon as possible. That would really be my ideal. However, the number of allowances must be below the ceiling. Then there will also be room for action which will stimulate the future prospects for this sector. By having this done as quickly as possible, there will be room to fill that phosphate bank again, to ensure that rights can be issued, including to young land-based farmers. Mr Ten Hoeve also asks: is it not time to stop choosing the easiest road? Isn't a generic discount for non-ground farmers a better starting point? I have just tried to point out to Mr Reuten that applying a generic discount has real consequences, including for companies that have not contributed at all to the growth of livestock. Being purely non-ground-bound would be what would cut them off. So I think that element is vulnerable. It is also difficult for the dairy farmers concerned. Plus, we are now taking advantage of the space that is left, which comes into the market, rather than having a real equal effect on, for example, the number of animals that have to be transported to slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u48	I understand that reasoning very well. The problem remains, of course, that, if you choose to radically stimulate ground-boundness by choosing the other method, you will not see the people who do not contribute to the phosphate surplus. That would imply this choice: soil density does not contribute to the phosphate surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u49	The phosphate surplus has several reasons. The point is that you can put your own manure on your own soil. That is, of course, the rule. I have just indicated that in the short term I find the implications very strong for all farmers, including those who have not contributed to the phosphate surplus. I think that is a consideration, in which I chose the skimming and not the generic discount. I think I have answered Mr Ten Hoeve's questions. Then I come to Mr Binnema's questions. He asks: why was 20% chosen? Is that enough? What happens when it turns out not to be enough? He gave some sort of overview of all the assumptions in it. I recognize that. I recognize that there are many assumptions in it. That's also because it's still a young market. We are in the middle of a good year and it is quite difficult to estimate exactly what is the basis of all the things that are being asked. This reduces predictability. We have looked at the trade in 2018, but also at the experience with the animal rights systems that we have been having for a while. This shows that most trade takes place at the end of the year. We saw this last year with regard to the phosphate rights system. In 2018, a total of 420,000 kilos of phosphate was removed with a percentage of 10%. I do expect it to be a bit less in 2019 than in 2018, because in 2018 the whole market still had to start moving. The farmers were working to see how many rights they had, given the size of their livestock. In it they were seeking their way. Since I expect a little less action to be taken now, I also expect that a 10% percentage will not be enough. Then the question is what percentage you're sitting on. Here's what counts. If you choose too high a percentage, there will be no more trade at some point. If you sell something and you know that such a high percentage is being skimmed, you'll find other ways to deal with it, or you won't act at all. You are also looking for a kind of balance: not too high to ensure that trade does not stop, but so high that we can remove the planned number of rights from the market. I recognise that there is a certain amount of assumptions. Mr Binnema asks whether I agree that not opening up the phosphate bank undermines the purpose of the ground-boundness. I have already indicated in reply to Mr Ten Hoeve's questions that groundboundness is important. That is why I would like the phosphate bank to be opened up quickly. We must ensure that we reduce the number of rights to what we are allowed to spend. Then we can open the phosphate bank. Mr Binnema asks whether we can no longer apply this measure so that more rights go to the phosphate bank. Can't you put it at 20%, if I can translate it that freely? The purpose of this bill is a temporary measure. At the time when we introduced our phosphate rights system, you were also a part of the phosphate bank, and the legislator said that we should skim 10% for the phosphate bank. This bill is not intended to reopen the fundamental debate on how many rights we are bringing to the phosphate bank. This bill is purely aimed at getting under the ceiling as quickly as possible. That is why I do not now opt for a further increase in the rate of skimming. Mr Binnema also asked about the main disadvantages of the generic discount. I have just tried to point out that a generic reduction could lead to animals being brought to slaughter. The discount can be dropped by companies that have not contributed at all to increasing the size of the livestock. Therefore, a skimming rate has been chosen. You also asked about feasibility and legality. The arrangement is enforceable. We are also doing this with the present 10%. This increase does not lead to a huge increase in the problems with the feasibility of RVO. They know what to do, because they've been doing it for over a year. I have just tried to underpin legality with this bill and with the debate we are having on it. Then there's the perspective of the future. I also look forward to discussing the future of agriculture with Mr Binnema's successor, also in relation to nature and the environment. This is a subject that will remain in the spotlight for some time. It is also about very important matters. It's about our primary necessities, our food, and the nature we can enjoy, but it's also vital. I come to Mr Van Zandbrink's questions. He asked why the Chamber still doesn't have the report on the CDM's manure fraud. I assume he means the report on the deterrent effect of the fines. The preparation of the report has taken more time than we had hoped and expected. The aim is to send it to the Chamber before the summer. At the end of June, I will report on the progress of the reinforced enforcement strategy to the European Commission. The European Commission is also closely involved or taken into account. If we did not do so, they would call us to it. Then there is the ground-boundness, a more fundamental point from Mr Van Zandbrink. In his view, the reform of manure legislation should be more closely linked to the soil. We must dare to make the choices to go more that way. I have just indicated that soil binding is an important aspect of the entire manure policy. We've had all kinds of conversations in the country. We are now determining the direction to be taken with regard to how this revision can be implemented. The promotion of circular agriculture is one of the objectives we are pursuing. I'd almost say, of course. We can see that it sometimes interferes with each other and that is not productive. At the end of the year, I am trying to point the way in relation to how we think we can give hands and feet to the rethinking. Simplicity of the system is one of the assumptions. Mr Van Zandbrink pointed out that fraud is an important aspect. A simpler system often also helps to prevent fraud, but it also serves the viability of farmers. They sometimes wonder how they can all be wised out of this. If we take the right steps, we will really have a system for the future to serve the charities. Mr Van Zandbrink asks whether I expect there to be sufficient transfer. If so, what is this expectation based on? I have just told Mr Binnema that it is a young market. It's hard to predict. We looked at last year's trade and animal rights experience. We saw last year that 420,000 kilos had been skimmed by 10%. Assuming that there would be less action, we have set that percentage higher. We're gonna keep a close eye on progress. In the letter I indicated that, if it turns out to be insufficient, I do not rule out the need for a further increase. For the moment, we are going to see what the 20% means for skimming the number of rights. Does the European Commission agree to this? The European Commission's assessment is that an increase in the rate of skimming does not require its approval. In other words, this bill does not have to pass the European Commission again. Mr Van Zandbrink asked whether it would be helpful to look at the Environment Act in the review of manure policy. We are in the process of defining the contours for a future manure policy. In doing so, I will look at the instruments that can be used. I will also look into the possibilities offered by the Environment Act. I can't say that in advance, but I'm willing to look into it. Then there is the more fundamental question of the reduction of livestock. This reduction can be a result of choices being made. That's what I've always said. However, it is not an end in itself. It's in that order, too. I think we really need to look at the right measures for the future of our agriculture, what they mean and where they ultimately lead. These are, of course, the steps we always take in our policy. I hope that I have been able to answer Mr Van Zandbrink's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u50	The Minister says that the reduction in livestock is not an end in itself. Perhaps she can clarify this a little bit, because many government advisory bodies have said: the livestock should be reduced. Does the Minister mean, if she says it's not an end in itself, that we're not going to? Or does she mean that we should always see it in relation to certain objectives? In that case, could it give a more detailed explanation of these objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u51	When I say it's a consequence of choices we make, I mean that way. So it is not so that we first say that the aim is to reduce livestock and then ask ourselves what needs to be done. No, the goal is that we have to abide by certain standards. We are also looking at, for example, the question of the viability of pigs; I would remind you of the warm clean-up of pig farming. The living environment and the quality of life are also important aspects. Those are the goals we set. In doing so, we will see what opportunities we have and what resources are needed to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr Van Zandbrink, before you ask a question: I warn everyone, including the Minister. It's 11:15. We also have a second term. I said 11:30. I'm willing to stretch it to a quarter to twelve, but then it's really over. Mr. Van Zandbrink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says that the reduction in livestock is not an end in itself. On that point we may differ, but apart from that, my question was about the effects of the measures you are taking. These measures could lead to a reduction in livestock. What consequences does that have for the income of the farmer who continues? That's what it was all about, regardless of whether or not it's a goal in itself. What is the impact of the measures now being taken and perhaps to be taken in the future? The question was, do you want to do that reconnaissance? I do not wish to say that you agree in advance that this is the purpose of this study. It's about getting that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u54	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u55	Let's not stop thinking, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u56	I have had this discussion with Mr Van Zandbrink before. We have set up a committee to look at income models for farmers. That committee is under the leadership of today's deputy, later-deputy Mrs Maij. A whole range of scientists and practitioners are involved. They look very closely at the farmer's earning models in the future. Of course, you also look at the different models. The task is not to look at the earning model if the livestock gets smaller, I say it explicitly. However, it looks at the future scenarios for agriculture. Where, for example, are certain markets, how do they develop and which earning model is included? We are already looking at this, because we can take all kinds of measures here, but if it ultimately leads to the farmer not being able to earn the income or getting the investment back, we are not solving the problem. Well, then we're mostly pinning the farmer down. In addition, we are also working on measures for the farmer's position in the chain; I hope to send a legislative proposal to your Chamber shortly. We are also looking at how we can improve the position and thus the earning capacity of the farmer. So I think we have already used a number of pathways to get an answer to the question of what this earning model will look like in the future. Mr Schalk asks me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u57	I'll give you until 5:30 for the first-term answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yes. I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u59	Then I'll have 15 minutes of second term of office and you'll get five minutes before your second term. Then it's a quarter to twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u60	Fine. I think I can do that. Mr Schalk of the SGP asks me to make a number of commitments. I will tell you that I am happy to do it, but I will also explain how I do it. First of all, he asks whether the documents promised to the House of Representatives could also be promised here the numerical justification and the confidentiality of the legal basis, i.e. the European Commission's request to bring down a number of rights. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll make sure that those documents are available to your Chamber as well. The second request concerned the comparison between the different systems. Mr Schalk is right to say that it is really a complex dossier. It's complicated. There are a lot of variables involved. It's about beef cows, dairy cows, dairy ceilings, phosphate rights, phosphate ceilings... I understand that many figures and categories do not always contribute to the clarity of the system. I would like to assure you that I will put this in writing in the near future, that I will explain the relationship between these matters and that I will send this to your Chamber. I'll try to do that before the summer. Hopefully there will be a clear letter. Mr Schalk also asks what I am going to do about the difference between all these things, because this does not provide a good incentive for farmers. In calculating the amount of phosphate rights that farmers need, we make use of flat rates. They represent an average value, for example a milk cow in a given milk production. Those are averages, assumptions, because you want to keep it a little simple. Farmers have become more efficient in producing phosphate in recent years. That's why they're no longer up-to-date. That's what I've been talking about in the House of Representatives. I have promised the House of Representatives that in September I will inform her how I intend to adapt these drafts as of 1 January, so that they come more in line with reality. If your Chamber so wishes, I can also send you these figures so that you can take note of them. I hope that I have answered Mr Schalk's questions. Finally, Mr Koffeman's questions. He asks me when I come up with an integrated vision of the future of agriculture, in which we also focus more on phosphate and nitrogen. For phosphate and nitrogen we now have the sectoral ceilings and the national ceiling, so that the production of manure does not adversely affect the environment and water quality if we stay below. In the context of rethinking the manure policy, we look more fundamentally with all stakeholders where we want to go with the manure policy. I think that in this reflection on manure policy we are also going to broaden the vision of phosphate and nitrogen. The integrated vision of the future, I believe, has been presented with regard to circular agriculture. We are now in the process of drawing up the realisation plan. I have already promised your chamber that I will send it here. Then the members of your Chamber will be able to take note of the plans we are making to take the road to circular agriculture. I had already promised, but I will also forward the implementation plan on circular agriculture to your Chamber. This is therefore about the medium-term vision, as Mr Koffeman calls it. We present the realisation plan. In it you can find out what actions we are all going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr. Koffeman, I keep looking at that clock...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u62	I would like to ask the Minister whether she is also prepared to include the effects of livestock farming on the climate problem in such an integral vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr Koffeman knows that the cabinet is preparing a climate agreement. This makes agriculture and land users one of the components of the climate agreement. We are also going to name and take measures to deal with the environment. Mr Koffeman also asked about the consequences of the CBb ruling on meat cattle. On 16 April 2019, the College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven published three judgments on phosphate rights for young cattle. The CBb has considered that the explanation given by the policy rule is a limitation of the concept of "milk cattle" as contained in the Fertilisers Act. Therefore, according to the CBb, young cattle over 1 year of age who are not intended to have a calf can also be dairy cows within the meaning of the Fertilisers Act. My estimate now is that the CBb ruling means that a total of about 300,000 kilograms of phosphate duty should be allocated to meat farmers. By the way, this concerns a defined group. One had to have those cattle in 2015. So it's not like it's getting any higher. Additional rights should only be granted for part of the young cattle kept by meat farmers at the time of the reference date, as I have just indicated. The judgment of the CBb also means that it is once again unclear which young cattle are covered by the concept of "milk cattle" as contained in the Fertilisers Act and therefore what the scope of the phosphate rights system is. In order to clarify this for the future, I intend to amend the law in accordance with the policy rule. So we're gonna bail it out. In the meantime, the Fertilisers Act will be enforced on the basis of the policy rule. So we are closing the gap identified by the CBb. There are still a lot of rights on the market, hence the need for this bill. Mr President, I believe that I have answered all the questions, including those of Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you. Then I shall say very quickly that we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I have one more question. A total of 1 million too much has been spent on rights, of which 0.6 million has not been allocated to dairy farming. But that's where they'll be brought back. This seems to be a transfer between sectors. Does the Minister agree with this assumption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Reuten. I hope you can do it as soon as Mrs Faber does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has answered my questions in a very efficient manner. Perhaps we should have more urgent debates, Mr President. I would like to stress that she has done so in a pleasant way. I note that the Minister acknowledges that there are many uncertainties and assumptions about the decisions on skimming rather than the alternative of a generic discount. I would like to ask one question more specifically: the number of animals that have to go to slaughter early on in the two alternatives. That is a difficult question to answer, I understand that, but I would like to see it a little more specific, so with a generic reduction of 0.8% or an extra creaming of 10% to 20%. The first part of my speech dealt with the broad framework of the legislative proposal. I support the motion that Mr Koffeman is about to table. Finally. I will put the Minister's answers to my questions to my group. As a result, in the context of our first-term comments, we will adopt our position on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Reuten. Top, you have two and a half minutes left; all great! I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her very clear statements. I remain convinced that if we do not immediately start taking radical measures in favour of the ground-based sector, we will put things back on track, and it will be a very long-term process. Let's get started, please! The Minister does not opt for a generic discount, as it also affects companies that have not contributed to growth. That is correct in itself, but with that we are again choosing against the sector, which does not contribute at all to the phosphate surplus. I'm still unhappy with the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for replying to the Minister. Thank you, too, for the congratulations of both the Minister and colleagues. There's been more attention for my birthday than I like. I always try to ignore the fact that there's such a thing as birthdays. Let's cut to the chase. The Minister confirms that Mr Reuten also said that these are assumptions. We hope that 20% is the percentage that is moving the market sufficiently. But the risk remains that there is too little trade and that we are not going to make it this way after all. Perhaps there will be a later moment, already evaluating, on the road and monitoring, that the percentage still needs to increase. In this sense, we note that the preparation of the debate, today's debate and the explanatory statement have been somewhat affected by the haste and urgency required. You would like to make a real assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of this skimming rate and the generic discount, but these have not been explored in full width. The comparison between the generic discount and the rate of skimming concerns, in particular, feasibility and legality. In particular, the statement explains the rate of skimming on these aspects. At the same time, we note that this legislative proposal could make the desired possible, namely to bring phosphate rights below the sector ceiling. This means that we are not extremely enthusiastic or very convinced, but we do think that these steps are now needed. That is why I will also give my group a positive opinion on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Van Zandbrink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments and the explanations. Shortly and well, there is one point that remains: the groundboundness. Did I understand correctly that the Minister's reply stated that she had no idea whether the trade in phosphate rights would lead to an increase in or decrease in soil density? If that is the case, I would like to ask the Minister if she would follow that, so that we can include it in the review of the manure system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van Zandbrink. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for his reply, but also for the very clear commitments she has made. On all three of my questions, she has promised to send this to the Chamber. In particular, the second commitment, which was about giving more insight into the various systems, to put it very briefly, helps me to finally come to my group with a positive opinion on the law before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions. I am very convinced of the Minister's genuine intentions to solve the problem ahead. I am also convinced that these good intentions were also present with ministers. However, these good intentions have not so far led to an integrated approach that is really sufficient to deal with the problems that have been repeated. Let me just say a few words about the answer to the questions. I asked the Minister if she could clarify why too many rights have been issued and to whom. I asked if the Minister could explain in a letter what problems and objections were involved. I'd like an answer to that. Following the ruling of the Board of Appeal for Industry, I pointed out that the phosphate rights granted to livestock farmers are currently outside the sector ceiling, unless those livestock farmers sell the rights to dairy farmers. What does this change of law do to prevent that problem? I have missed that aspect in replying to the Minister. Then the Minister has promised that a number of studies are under way to identify the nitrogen, phosphate and climate problems associated with livestock farming, but I believe that more than that is needed at the moment. For this reason, I would like to table a motion calling for an integrated policy plan with enforceable targets, because it has really been lacking in recent years. I believe that this is very much needed in the coming period, especially since the climate effects of livestock farming are still not well taken into account in order to achieve important targets by 2030. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Reuten, Mr Binnema, Mr Overbeek, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Van Zandbrink proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current legislation in the field of livestock farming and manure policy does not provide sufficient comfort in reducing nitrogen and phosphate emissions and in contributing to the climate targets set by the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the European Court of Justice has ruled that the Netherlands is doing too little against too much nitrogen in nature;]] [[Whereas occasional legislation on the removal of phosphate rights does not provide sufficient prospects for structural solutions;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with an integrated policy plan for livestock farming with manageable objectives in the fields of phosphate, nitrogen and climate impacts, including the achievement of the 2030 climate targets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35208-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for the contribution of your Chamber, the questions put and the motion tabled. I shall begin with Mrs Faber's question as to whether there is a transfer between the sectors. I advocate to the European Commission that the beef rights should not be included under the dairy ceiling. That is what we are talking about now, and that is what the Netherlands is doing, so that there will indeed be no rights of the beef cattle under the dairy ceiling. Moreover, I cannot prevent trade between these two sectors. So someone who has meat cattle can sell it to the dairy farm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u79	That is where the Minister immediately outlines a difficult problem. If these beef rights are sold to dairy farming, we have not counted them, but in reality they count, at least, they cause what we wanted to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u80	This is, I think, the question that Mr Koffeman has specifically asked. I'll get back to you on that. This was purely a question of whether there was a transfer between these two sectors. This was about handing out the meat cattle under the dairy ceiling. I have reported my commitment towards Europe in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u81	The Minister states that she is reporting her commitment to the European Commission, but I still have the question whether 0.6 million rights are being transferred from one sector to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u82	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u83	I see that 1 million rights have to be withdrawn from the market, of which 0.6 million have not been allocated to dairy farming, but they are being taken back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u84	Rights have been granted to meat cattle and rights have been granted to dairy cows. The question now is whether the rights granted to the beef cattle are included in the dairy ceiling. I have indicated my commitment to Europe. I would like to touch on Mr Koffeman's question as to what we are doing with these additional rights because of the decision of the CBb. I'm almost giving the answer right now. I cannot prevent trade between these two systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u85	Just give me the answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u86	He asks: how do you prevent it? I can't stop that. I cannot prevent it from being dealt with. This underlines once again the urgency of this legislative proposal in order to prevent the dairy ceiling from being too high in terms of the number of rights. Mr Reuten once again asked if I could support the number of animals that may go to slaughter early with a generic discount versus an extra skim. I have just indicated that I cannot provide any quantitative basis for this. This has to do with the individual choice a farmer makes; he can also opt for export, for example. I have indicated that skimming affects the latent space that exists, so what a farmer has left and does not need. This reduces the chance of it leading directly to slaughter. But I can't quantify this or justify it with figures exactly. I heard what Mr Ten Hoeve said. He's unhappy with the choice. I have also heard what his justification is. I also indicated why I made the choice the way I made it. I thank Mr Binnema. He states that a broader consideration is needed. I think we are going to give it, too, but this bill really sees us coming under the ceiling of rights that we have been given. Mr Van Zandbrink spoke about ground boundness. He asks whether it is increasing or decreasing. Can the question be repeated, Mr President, because I did not write it down quite correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u87	The question is whether the transfer of phosphates is a movement from land-based holdings to non-ground-based holdings or vice versa. I understand you don't know that. If I understood correctly, would you please map that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u88	It is true that I do not know exactly how many rights are now being traded, for example, from a land-based company to a land-based company. We don't keep track of that like this. We do, however, monitor the soil density in the context of the soil-based growth dairy farming. We keep an eye on this in a generic way, but following the real real time where a right goes, from company A to company B, and the question whether company A is a land-based company and company B is not or whatever, is difficult because the degree of land-basedness must always be determined per company. That makes the execution technically quite complex. So we measure the degree of groundboundness, but not the exact trade between the two. I think that is also a job in terms of complexity. I wouldn't go there either. I would like to thank Mr Schalk for the consideration he has put to his group. So I also say to him that I will send the information, as I did in the first period. Mr Koffeman asked how many rights were granted to which categories. I have already stated that some 600,000 kilograms of phosphate have been allocated to the livestock farmers. Of these, some 140,000 kilograms of duty have been surrendered, also because of the exemption regime we have introduced. That is why some 460,000 rights have been granted to livestock farmers. That will amount to 300 000 kilos as a result of the CBb speech I have just indicated. Mr Koffeman also asked if I could give more clarity on the basis of the figures. What have they all been awarded to and not to what? These are initial awards plus the consequences of appeals and appeals. Among other things, as a result of additional information provided by farmers, when it was established how many rights there should be, farmers could still give their views on whether they were entitled to more rights in their opinion or not. This led to the determination of the number of duties. Later on, there were still more farmers who said: I am more entitled to rights because of certain circumstances. They have been able to prove that it is. As a result, more rights were initially granted. It is a large system in which we are still well in the process of implementing it. Objections and appeals are still ongoing at the moment, so I cannot assess them all in advance. I think it goes a long way to map this in every animal category. That's a lot of work, if I can make everything perfectly clear there. So I have now outlined in general terms what these figures are going through, the reasons why more have been allocated. But I do think it would go a long way to assign that entirely by letter. Mr Koffeman also asks for meat cattle for dairy cows. I cannot prevent that trade from taking place there. Hence the urgency of this bill. Then there is Mr Koffeman's motion. He called for an integrated policy framework on phosphate, nitrogen and climate, including the climate agreement. I have indicated that I will soon come up with the implementation plan for the LNV vision. That will be very soon, and I am committed to closing loops. We also have the climate agreement, which will soon come to a conclusion. I believe that we have already set out enough visions and action plans or implementation plans that go with them. In that light, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u89	Very briefly, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u90	I find it special that the Minister sees in the motion all kinds of things that she is already working on. The only thing the motion requires more is to make it an integral policy framework and to provide it with verifiable objectives. Then the Minister says, "I'm gonna dissuade the motion." I'm not sure I'm aware of that. What's the problem with the Minister? Doesn't she want to have a checkable goal? Or does she not want an integral policy framework? 'Cause the parts are already working on, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u91	I am glad that your Chamber always urges me to do my job, but if I do my job, then the Chamber does not have to make another motion for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u92	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u93	It appears that until now your ministers have also done their work, but there have always been no reckonable objectives. That is why we are here today urgently for another repair law. So what I want with this motion is to prevent us from getting new repair legislation every time, but that there is an integral policy framework with settleable objectives. Apparently, the minister doesn't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u94	We have objectives with regard to phosphate; the amount of phosphate production that may take place, the amount of nitrogen production that may take place. We are in the process of setting up the measures that we have identified for agriculture and land use under the climate agreement and the megatons of CO that it is intended to deliver. So, yeah, I think we're gonna do this, or we're gonna do it. Then I don't see why I should turn that on again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-3.u96	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill this afternoon. The motion tabled will also be put to the vote this afternoon.
