ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	We always start with oral Question Time on Tuesday. Today we begin with Mr Sjoerdsma's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, whom I would also like to welcome. This Minister will replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is about not handing over an MH17 suspect by Russia. I call Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Russia is not cooperating in the extradition of MH17 suspect Tsemach, someone who may have been involved in hiding or transporting the Buk missile that took down MH17. I know how you like parliamentary language, so I'll hold back, but that's shameless. It is shameless that they do not cooperate. The Public Prosecutor had requested that this man be extradited, but Russia could not, because "the Russian authorities would not have any information available about his whereabouts'. Please note that this is the Tsemach that Russia wanted, at all costs, in the prisoner exchange with Ukraine. It's the Tsemach that landed live on television at a Russian airport. It is the same Tsemach who also managed to cross the border between Russia and Ukraine undisturbed. Indeed, it is very likely that "Russia did not know where this man was" at all. It's not a credible excuse. Mr. Chairman. This behaviour by Russia is not only a violation of United Nations Resolution 2166. It is not just a violation of international law. It's also a disguised confession of guilt. If our Foreign Minister has sent a letter personally and if Minister Blok has recently addressed his Russian counterpart personally, then it is clear that Russia has not cooperated at the highest level. This fits in a pattern, because Russia is constantly frustrating, systematically, the process of truth finding and the process of justice. The MH17 tribunal did not arrive because of a Russian veto in the Security Council. Evidence is withheld or disabled; the truth is undermined by Russian conspiracy theories. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from this minister how the cabinet qualifies this action by Russia, what legal steps the cabinet is considering now that Russia has violated the European extradition treaty, whether Minister Blok will address his Russian colleague at the forthcoming OSCE summit and whether it will be on the agenda for the European Union next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I recognize a great deal, not only in the enormous disappointment, but also in the anger that Mr Sjoerdsma shares here in polite terms. Indeed, it seems very cynical that a country states that it does not have any information about a person to be extradited. It is true that the D.A. made the request on the basis of the Convention. On the basis of a treaty, there is no possibility of consulting a third party on the assessment of foreign affairs in order to re-examine the possibility of introducing measures. At present, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is left with only the following means, which have so far proved unsuccessful: to remain in conversation and continue to exert high pressure on the Russian counterparts. In the middle of November, Mr Blok addressed Minister Lavrov. As you know, that wasn't exactly an easy conversation, it was a necessary conversation. He will see him the day after tomorrow at the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in Bratislava. He will certainly try again to talk to Minister Lavrov. The problem is, of course, that the Russian Federation itself has expressed 'no information about Mr Tsemach's whereabouts'. Foreign Affairs estimates that at present there is little other means left for follow-up action. The diplomatic process is under way. Of course, the D.A.'s office is moving on to the important case. It will start in March 2020. The question is: can more happen and are there other means? Is it a direct violation of the UN Security Council resolution? I still have to consult with the foreign lawyers on what resources might be available. I believe that the problem remains to show that the Russian Federation knows where Mr Tsemach is and could therefore proceed to extradition. That's the key question. The Netherlands currently has no independent information to prove otherwise. That is why I call this case very cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	We're talking about a potential suspect. We're talking about someone who was taken from Eastern Ukraine by Ukrainian commandos. In addition, a commando died and another commando lost his leg. Next, this suspect has been claimed, let me just mention it by Russia: claimed. Against our wishes and against the wishes of the Public Prosecutor. I hear what this minister is saying, but now Russia says: we don't really know where he is. Yeah, that Russia doesn't know where he is right now... Well, I don't actually believe that either. He's in eastern Ukraine. We all know that. Russia won't officially do anything there, okay? But of course Russia knew very well where he was when the D.A. came up with that request, because he landed there with that Russian plane. We could see it live on television. We saw in photos that he landed there. They're just tough lies. Then it is indeed frustrating to hear that there are so few means to do something about it. I'm guessing this minister finds that frustrating, too. Here's what I'd like to ask her. If, like me, the foreign lawyers consider this to be a violation of Resolution 2166, what are the options for bringing this up in the UN Security Council? I actually think that any violation of that resolution, by any country, but certainly by Russia, should be mentioned time and time again. I would like to be promised that by this minister. The second thing I'd like to hear is this. I welcome the fact that the Foreign Minister will discuss it at the OSCE Summit. But the Minister also says: there must be pressure. We must have pressure, not only from ourselves, but also from allies. Next week, the European Foreign Ministers will meet. I would like to ask if our Foreign Minister would like to draw attention once again to this matter of the MH17 and not to cooperate with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	As I said before, I think that the cabinet recognizes itself very much in the tone and the great concern, and in the need for justice and judicial consequences for the suspects. They must be heard and punished. The major problem in this matter, including for the Netherlands, is the burden of proof: demonstrating who is where now. I can assure you that Minister Blok will continue with all the talks uncompromisingly. He starts in Bratislava. I also think it is very important that it should be discussed again in the European Council. But we do have to do expectations management here, because calendaring and discussing for the Netherlands and certainly for the next of kin probably still doesn't give the desired result. But the pressure is incredibly important. If there is a moment when we can see that we can prove that there is a violation of a UN Security Council resolution, the Netherlands is always ready, regardless of the case, but certainly in this case, of course, to discuss this further with allies. In this case, of course, also with Germany as a new permanent member, but I think we can also count on the other European members on the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	We are of course appalled at all of this, and it is particularly terrible for the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	The Minister has already spoken about the follow-up steps being mapped out. That's hugely important. I'd like to ask her about the other victim countries, as I call them. Is her colleague there continuing to discuss this matter? Can we also count on their pressure to deal with these shameful acts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	Yes, my colleague is constantly talking, of course not always personally, through the embassies, through the posts and at a high level of administration. On the basis of this situation, new contact will be made to see how we can proceed. I think we should look from country to country, even if we look back at some of the statements made by, for example, the Prime Minister of Malaysia, but I will start with Australia. Then the conversation will continue. In subsequent AOs, the Minister will certainly be able to give a short update on this. It is an important point, especially with regard to the survivors and the importance of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you.
