ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u1	The issue now is the continuation of the Chamber's side of the examination of the Law 35223, Amendment of the General Old Age Act, the Law on Pay Tax 1964, the Act on Increase of AOW and Pension Orientation Age, the Act on Accelerating Gradual Increase of AOW Age and the Law on Benefits Pay Domain in connection with the temporalisation of the step-by-step increase of the AOW age. In short, the Law on Temporalization increases AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Crone. Mr Crone is going to make his maiden speech. So that's what we're calling for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, a great pleasure for me to be the first to congratulate you, after Mr Kox, whom I thank for the pleasant leadership, at this official meeting, on your appointment as President. We look forward to a good partnership. I will delete some of my technical questions, because many have already been asked by colleagues. The grass has already been mowed from my feet. But a few important aspects have not yet been addressed, including, to my surprise, the intragenerational and intergenerational aspects of this law, which is important in itself, which we will also support. Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to the other members who made their maiden speech. We are really talking about a long-term policy, because of course things like AOW and pensions are long-term policies. It's been a lot of thought, too. I have prepared this debate myself for the last 35 years. I will come back to that later. At the same time, it is clear that decisions are sometimes not prepared very long, but are taken very quickly. That is what has happened in this case. The AOW age hasn't changed for decades, but suddenly it does, quite quickly, twice in a row at the time of the financial crisis. Since the time of Drees, the AOW-age has remained unchanged for a long time. That is why it is very good that we are only now taking the place, that we are moving towards a certain temporization of the age increase to 67 years and a temporalisation of the one-to-one ratio, so that the higher age expectation by one year will not automatically lead to an increase in the AOW age by one year. The PvdA Group welcomes these corrections, precisely because there is a balance in them. It is not only in the interests of the elderly, including myself, but it is also in the interests of young people, who no longer have to work one-on-one-year longer if average life expectancy increases by one year. So all young people will also retire later than in the old situation. That intergenerational situation has not yet been identified, but I think it is very important. I'll come back to that later. We are talking here essentially about the first pillar of the pension building. On the second and third points, we still have important agreements between the social partners and the minister. So we will judge them here. I would also like to make a few comments. Then I come to the AOW itself, our unique system of solidarity with the elderly in general. Since the AOW exists, they are no longer dependent on the church, family or other charitas, but no longer need to be old and poor and can get an independent income, the AOW. That self-employed income should not then be called a'state pension', but I would like to put that name back on it, because that is really the heart of the matter. Economically, but also socially, older people were given a much better position to participate in society and not to be dependent. It is an important aspect of the welfare state that social democracy, with Willem Drees first and foremost, is very proud of. Then it was 65 years, and that, as I said, was a long time. As I said, I prepared myself for this debate 35 years ago. I was then a young economist at the Ministry of Social Affairs of this minister. I worked there for almost three years in the period around 1984. Back then, we were already studying how the ageing population and the sustainability of our welfare state would be, and in particular, the AOW and pensions. I moved out yesterday. It should be in one of the moving boxes, but I don't know which one. I do not know how difficult it is to say that everyone who is now old was already born and there were a lot of children. At the time, we knew exactly what was going to happen. Those pictures all came out, too. It was already crystal clear at that time that we would live longer than Drees could ever imagine, on average speaking, because he himself has aged over 100 years, and that much less children would be born. In the long term, acceptance, namely the size of the labour force, would decrease. The number of people in employment compared with the number of people over 65 is still falling. There is a tendency to fall from about five workers for one older worker to about three now, and it even goes down to two and a half or even lower, taking into account that people work up to 67 or even 69 years. Then they're still working. Nevertheless, in that respect, you see an erosion of the basis of support. That has not been said here, but that is at the heart of the matter, precisely because it is a pay-as-you-go system. Less and less workers have to pay it in the old system for the elderly. Of course, that's right, but then we saw a reverse reaction. People were gonna stop working sooner. They stopped at 62, 63 or even 60 years. Mrs Oomen even mentioned 59 years. Meanwhile, our average exit age has risen again towards 64 or even 65 years. So there is now a possible cyclical, but partly structural, reversal. These cores of support are, of course, super important. At that time in 1984, the whole of the 1980s, by the way, until the beginning of Purple, the discussion focused on the fact that people would no longer come to work, because there were no more jobs. "Jobless economic growth" was then the keyword in economic literature in Europe, but even in the United States. At that time there was already the discussion, with low growth rates and 'jobless economic growth', about how we could keep the support for the AOW intact. That's why there were all kinds of other moves back then. They weren't about lowering or increasing the AOW age. These were aspects such as partial fiscalisation of the AOW, but also supporting older people with rent subsidies and support in the healthcare system. Of course it is at least as important to have a good healthcare system when you are old as having only AOW. Tax reductions have also been introduced. All in all, the system has been maintained by a number of sensible measures, so we can still say that the AOW and the care of the elderly in general are among the absolute top of the world in the Netherlands. These measures fit in to keep it sustainable in the long term. The good news, of course, is that we live longer on average. That's not drama. That's exactly the profit. Health is better and the economy has also recovered. More and more people want to continue working, because they are healthier, but can also work up to the age of 61 and even over 65 and do not want to say goodbye to the labour market, because they just like working. The labour market is becoming increasingly tighter, so there is also an increasing need for people of all ages. That is not self-evident, but that trend is now clear. In terms of integrity and transparency, I say that I am also part of this process, because I will not stop at 65, if only because I can stay here for some time. I'm gonna be 65 next month. Here's a big dilemma. That's the classic dichotomy. It's not everyone's job to keep working. I see Mr. Kox is trying to interrupt, but I can't do that in a maiden speech. I'd like him to interrupt. I've had a little debate before, and I look forward to this. Mr. President, would you like to grant an exemption? He says no. Rules are sacred here. I hope for a second term. I've heard it's okay. I was with the classic dichotomy. Maybe I'll get a little closer to you, Mr. Kox. Not everyone can continue to work, because of health problems, the lack of jobs, low education or so on. People with heavy professions, or who already have poor health or what has to do with it, do not even reach the 65, let alone a higher age. It is very important that we should be able to ensure that these people can come and stay at work, even if the age structure becomes lower. We know the problem. That is very important. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. This really is a kind of reverse solidarity in our system, because it is the low income groups, the low levels of training and the heavy professions that are already failing to reach the system and therefore already have a lower working income before they get their pension. So they have lower or no pension and also health problems. It is precisely this reverse solidarity that is being restored, because people are allowed to retire earlier. This reverse solidarity is, to a large extent, part of the second pillar, but also part of the first pillar. That is what the discussion with the social partners will be about in the coming months, I think. How do we deal with this in a fair and just way? That's intragenerational solidarity. It has been under-exposed in the debate so far. I'd like the Minister's view on that. The intergenerational side also plays a role. Of course, it is a good thing that young people should not get the increase in life expectancy one-on-one translated into a higher retirement age, but that they should get out four months earlier. Among the young, too, and among those who are below retirement age, there will of course be many people who live longer and are healthy, but still live with a chronic disease. The profit of our health system is that people live longer, but often with a chronic disease, so they do not have the full capabilities that the labour market requires. For that group, too, the slower rise in the AOW age does not mean that these problems have been solved. What is the Minister's view on this? We call for a clear response to these intra- and intergenerational tensions in the pension agreement and its responses. This is all the more true because part of the financing of the AOW-temporalisation is financed by the LIV, the low-income advantage, which was intended precisely to keep or get people on low incomes to work. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The temporalisation and easing of the linking of the AOW age to life expectancy are a correct correction to the slightly too strong commitment of a few years ago, which was triggered by the financial crisis. We will therefore wholeheartedly support this bill. It is also financially sound, because even if it is a huge sum, cumulatively 5.3 billion, it is possible to raise this amount by increasing the employment rate. This confirms my story from the beginning. As long as there is economic support and many people work, there is even more support to financially support those who need it. Contrary to the time of my young years, we are no longer talking about "jobless economic growth." Since Purple, the number of jobs has literally increased by a million, when we thought that there would never be more jobs. So here too, as political and social partners, we are not powerless. For the future, too, we do not know, but the number of jobs will have to be maintained. That is not what this evening is about, but that is why we have the idea that the calculation itself is moderately correct on the basis of which the Central Planning Bureau has changed the sums. That is a very special question, Minister. I have always had a discussion about how robust these long-term songs, these shelf life deficits, are, in fact, if there is, as the newspapers call it, a gift from Laura van Geest that will bring us an agreement. The CPB isn't that serious, I know it isn't. But I'd still like to hear a better explanation as to why suddenly there's 5 billion. In addition, there is also the political question. It is, of course, part of a government agreement which is widely supported in both Chambers. You could have spent it on climate or something else. We support that political assessment, but in the media it has, I think, come across as: you see, if they want it, there is always a game somewhere. I know it's different, but I like to hear it from the Minister's mouth. They're not presents. It is an important law that we will be happy to support. I am curious to hear the Minister's answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr Crone. Please stand still. This was your maiden speech. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After your studies in economics, in particular economic policy and industrial organisation, at the University of Amsterdam, you became a policy officer in macroeconomic policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, the same ministry that proposed the law we are discussing today. The circle is round, they call it. However, not before you first switched from the Ministry of Transport to Transport Association FNV and then to the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and Environment. In both organisations, you dealt with economic and general environmental policy. On 17 May 1994, you were sworn in as a member of the Lower House of the Labour Party, where you were first environmental spokesperson and later financial spokesman. In 2007 you left the House of Representatives and became mayor of Leeuwarden. The year 2018, in which your city was European Capital of Culture, you mentioned the highlight of your mayorship, in which Mienskip, the community, was central. I understand that one of your last actions as mayor was to bring the Eurovision Song Contest 2020 to Leeuwarden as a follow-up. No "dead points" but "tolve points."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u5	Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you. You are also chairman of the curatorium of the Wiardi Beckman Foundation, the scientific bureau of the Labour Party, member of the Supervisory Board of the KNMI and chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Housing Foundation. On the occasion of your farewell to Leeuwarden, Eeltsje Hettinga, Poet fan Fryslân, wrote a poem about the twelve years of your mayorship. The poem shows a great appreciation for your commitment and your work in and for the city. I quote, translated from the Frisian by Elske Schotanus: "He came from over the Dijk, Could calculate faster And numbers than ever God Count. Him, far away Son of Troelstra and Fellow, he was chatting. Release what was stuck and put Towards old pragmatism Knowing what's true, that Works with devotion A provincial city Royal on the world map." In the coming years, you will undoubtedly put this method into practice in the First Chamber. Once again, welcome. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I myself have been the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u7	I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to congratulate Mr Frentrop, Mr Van Ballekom, Mrs Moonen and Mr Crone on their maiden speech and on the beautiful bouquet they have earned. Take care of that; it can last for days. It's hot days, but who knows? Mr. Chairman. The old age law is a matter of and for all ages. For young people, if possible, it has even more significance, and in most cases longer, than for older people. Once, in 1957, the General Old Age Law was introduced as an old age provision to combat poverty among the elderly. 1,38 guilders per year for a couple; 804 guilders for a single person. About 20% to 40% of an average annual income of 3,500 guilders. The AOW is not an insurance for which you pay contributions during your working life, but a basic provision, according to the pay-as-you-go system. The AOW is not a savings fund or a fund for old age. Every year benefits are paid through contributions and taxes by young people. In that sense, it is very similar to a pyramid game, such as that for which Bernie Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison in the United States. He also paid benefits to existing participants, from the deposit of new participants, only without a legal basis. That was an important difference. Tax attorney Hans Baaij wrote about the pay-as-you-go system: "In my opinion, it is ridicul that a 40-year-old who works in the care sector and earns €25,000 at least another 25 years' pay-as-you-go at the AOW of elderly people with a paid-off house of half a million or more and an income above €45,000. The garbage man contributes to the AOW of the retired commander of the KLM. The policeman to that of a successful lawyer who rakes together with some commissioners every year a ton." Bayj estimated that in 2017 a total of 37 billion euros were paid to pensioners. The current 9 million workers together pay the AOW for 3 million beneficiaries. The relationship between AOW workers and workers has increased considerably over time. First there was one AOW out of five workers, now that's one out of three. In 2040 that will increase to one in two and a half. So it makes sense for the cabinet to want to cut back. First by gradually increasing the AOW age, and now by freezing the increase again in exchange for and as part of the pension agreement. Many people see problems that will occur in the future as perspectivically reduced, which makes the resistance to them relatively easy to channel or even prevent, as shown by the voting ratio in the Lower House when adopting this law. Are there no other solutions to solve the acute shortages around the AOW? Sure, but that requires a radically different approach than the cabinet now envisages. Already in 2011, economist Jochen Mirau stated that an increase in the AOW age is not a good idea and can be better exchanged by the plan to stop giving wealthy Dutch people AOW. Don't all tighten the belt. Not to mention the income of current and future generations of young people. Solidarity no longer confuses it with "equal monks, equal hoods," but transforms the AOW into a safety net for people with small incomes, as it was meant to be when it was introduced. People who have often done hard work and have a lower age expectation than highly well-off people. Why would you make an old-age facility untenable by handing it out to people who don't need it at all, who don't even notice it's being credited? Who have no poverty. How can you justify that people who get an AOW benefit do not need any of that at all? Can the Minister reflect on this situation, in which the affordability of the AOW is currently defended only by shifting with the AOW age? One time by raising him considerably and in the law now before us by freezing that increase again. Mr. Chairman. You can make an unsustainable system a little bit more bearable in the short term by adjusting it in terms of starting date, but that doesn't make it more sustainable in the long run. Has the Minister considered increasing the solidarity of the AOW by using the provision only for those who really need it? This is in line with the aim of the law to combat poverty, as we do with assistance or other social safety nets, for example. Please comment, because it would make the AOW much more affordable and therefore sustainable for the long term. Mr. Chairman. It is not up to us in this House to come up with new initiatives, but it is no harm to challenge the Minister to a system review for an unsustainable system in relation to the marginal change that is now being proposed. Anything is better than investing time in a ticking time bomb. Solidarity cannot exist in the pardon of games of sliding around our old age provision and the well-stocked pension pots associated with it, but it requires real long-term solutions. What does the cabinet think it can offer young people who now pay the current generation of AOWs with their premium? How long can that system last? Has the cabinet seriously considered the possibility of making the scheme truly supportive, and what was the outcome of these considerations? I'd like a response. How sustainable is the system that only shifts with AOW ages and expectations, but leaves the loom error in the system untouched? What was the significance of the change in the AOW age compared to the pension agreement? Was it change to get the union into the pension agreement? If so, how does the cabinet calculate the price of that change? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Don't worry, we will support the proposal, not because we are very enthusiastic about it, but because it is better or less bad than the current situation. I would be very pleased if the Minister were to reflect on the possibility of making the system truly sustainable by means of a test of income or wealth and to bring the concept of social welfare closer to the original objective: to combat poverty among the elderly, and to give solidarity between generations a different character than to allow young people to pay for the elderly without it being clear whether such a scheme is feasible and affordable for them at the time they will be 65, 66, 67 or 68 years old. Government is, or should be, forward-looking, and we should be particularly concerned about the old age provision of the future and the fight against poverty. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gurp, who is going to make his maiden speech. I'll make a phone call before that. Mr. Van Gurp, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I have learned at least this morning is that it is a good habit to give congratulations to those people who deserve it. I agree with all the congratulations to those people who have made a maiden speech for me, those people who have been elected or just not elected President of the Chamber and all the MPs who have now received a new President. It is honourable to be here as a member of the parliament and to be able to speak immediately on such a large and important subject. Let me reassure you: I am not going to try to catch the Minister or my fellow MEPs flying like some kind of superexpert. There are two reasons for this. One. I'm not a super expert. Two. I don't like catching flies. Mr Crone has just told me that he is about my age and that he has been studying this subject for 35 years. I did that for a month, so it's not gonna work if I compete with that. What I'm going to do and what I'm going to try to do for four years is look at the more fundamental questions. What purpose do we serve? Is what we do with this law a little bit with other laws? Is it really gonna work in practice? How does it land in society? Who will receive the benefits and the disadvantages? Aren't we making it too complicated? Anyway, these kinds of questions will be my questions. If I miss the board, I'd love to hear it. At the moment, we are only formally talking about AOW legislation in terms of legislation. But we have agreed to include the broader context, so I have divided my contribution into three parts. I would like to make a few comments on the AOW and I would also like to say a few words about labour market policy very briefly. Then I have a number of comments on the pension system, the second pillar. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the calculation rate. In fact, as far as I am concerned, we can be brief on what is now hard to discuss and on which we also need to vote, the AOW legislation. It is arranged that the AOW age increases less rapidly than originally intended. We think that's a good idea. We think it is reasonable that, in the event of an increase in life expectancy, the AOW age should also increase. I'll tell you about it later. We are not from the school '65 is 65', but we do believe that the current rate of increase was considerably too high. It is wise to put a brake on that as proposed by this law. What is not yet stated in this law, but what is already communicated, is that the rate of increase is moderate after that five years. No longer a one-to-one life is a year longer than a year longer than a working one-to-eight months longer than a one-to-eight months longer life is eight months longer work and four months longer enjoy your old age provision. We think that Grosso Modo is a reasonable balance in this way. The punch line is, of course, in the words "grosso modo." Some people in this Chamber, I count on myself, Mr Crone is counting on himself for that, and Mr Kox is also counting on himself to get close to 65 years and saying: we'll add a few more years, nicely anyway, guys. For other groups or individuals it is certainly unreasonable to ask. What if you started working for 18 years? I went to college for another seven years, good time. What if you're doing heavy and irregular work? What if you're standing in front of the classroom and you're all through it at 63? In fact, we consider the discussion on this much more relevant than the last details in seven, eight or nine months. How do you put that nuance in? There's not much to say about that. Before I go to the bill, briefly about what's underneath. Underneath it is a labour market that has been wiped out. An out-of-control labour market gradually leads to a lot of people getting kicked out of the car. We were all able to read an interim report from the Borstlap Committee a week or two ago. He's pretty alarming about that. It talks about a new social issue and it talks about a division in society. Those are not words from GroenLinks, although they are certainly also words from GroenLinks, but words from an extremely respected political-neutral committee. That's about a huge number of people with an irregular job. For some it is a choice of their own, all beautiful, but for many people it is not a choice of their own. They work under poor working conditions in the basement of the labour market. It's also about how we can't get that career to breathe a little bit with your career, so you have the top of the hustle and bustle in your work at the top of the hustle and bustle and people run into a burn-out and burn-out and then later, if they actually had the space again, they're finished. It is also about us, despite all the fine words, not being able to make a serious effort to develop a lifelong life. The choices we have here on labour market policy go far beyond a grant here or a fund there. It is really about fundamental questions and I hope and expect that we can achieve real breakthroughs at that point. I would ask the Minister to say something about this in a moment. If we make breakthroughs on this point, I am convinced that this discussion on the pension system and on the AOW age can take place in a much more natural and less tense context. Anyway, it's not that far so far. That means we're doing it in a tense context. That also means that at the finish line or near the finish line we are dealing with a lot of tired and tired people. I must honestly say that the agreement in principle disappoints us on this point. There is communication: people with heavy professions can stop working earlier. Some sort of interim measure has been taken over the next five years. This means that people can swing for up to three years before the AOW age and then get an AOW benefit from the employer, so to speak, an amount of that size. It doesn't sound very firm to me yet. My question to the Minister is whether I understand correctly that these agreements should be made at the collective bargaining table. Do I therefore understand that workers who, in our view, could have any right to do so will have to trade that provision against other provisions which they have to provide at the collective agreement table and that, ultimately, nothing more will happen for those people, at best if they come out of it, an exchange of working conditions? I would like to ask the Minister to indicate how he intends to proceed. It would have been better if a more robust and structural measure had been put on the table. In our view, this is now being moved to the table of employers and employees. We call on the Minister to assume his own responsibility there and to come forward with a firm measure on this issue within five years of this interim regime being in force. That's about the AOW. Then we come to the pièce de résistance of this minister, which is, after all, a renewal of the pension system in the second pillar. It took about ten years before there was an agreement. That's pretty much what's being done about it: things are taking a long time around here. Actually, I don't think it's that crazy. It's about something. Speakers this morning I think the Forum was saying: this is the most essential piece of our system of care arrangements, and you must not throw that overboard. So it's good that it's been a long time. Now there is something for which there is at least broad support from employers and employees, which is pleasant, and for which there is broad support in the House of Representatives, which is also pleasant, but let us be honest about it, where there is still an incredible amount of work to be done. We all come here to talk about the effects in the coming years. I think it would be a good idea to give some shots in advance. Then the Minister will know what he has to relate to and will continue to be able to count on our support. I'm just gonna skip a little bit, otherwise I'm gonna repeat what a lot of others have said. Roughly said, there are a number of important improvements to the system and there are a number of issues that concern us. What we welcome is the fact that at least there is an incentive to make pensions available to more people and that there is also an incentive to provide health insurance forzzp'ers... Disability insurance forzzp's, I must say. At the same time, there is our concern. Communicationally, it's sort of landed when "zzp'ers have to take out health insurance" and the unrest is high. I would like to hear from the Minister that we are moving towards collective public insurance. I believe that if uncertainty can be removed on this point, the social support for this proposal will increase enormously. On the issue of pension provision, which we are, of course, actually talking about, forzzp'ers, I read that the intention is that they should be able to join more easily. For payrollers there is also something in the making on another table, so steps are taken. As far as we are concerned, that should go a little more decisively. I would like to draw particular attention to the waiting time that applies in the broadcasting sector. 26 weeks of work before you start building up your pension doesn't exactly mean equal working conditions for people who do equal work. My question to the Minister is how he intends to take action. Can I see that this is all the more urgent, because most young people are in that kind of crumb labour and you build up the most of your rights in the new system at a young age? So it just gets more urgent not to say: well, what the hell, those first six, seven, eight years of your life a little bit of a dork job to dork job, it doesn't matter anyway, it's all gonna be okay. No, it's not gonna be okay, because you're gonna miss eight or ten years of retirement, and that's more than a quarter of your retirement, more or less. Then we come to the major system change: the abolition of the average systematic system. The average premium remains if I see it correctly, but not the average. It's possible. We've been watching it for a long time, because it's a big book with SER variants. You can choose a lot of them and the cabinet has chosen them. There's a lot of risks. It's got 60 billion redistributing effects. It gets the benefit of the doubt from us, because collective risk sharing is still being chosen. This unabated collective risk sharing maintains the core values of our pension system. That is why we are prepared to take part, of course under conditions, in all the complex questions of interpretation and distribution that are coming. What are our main benchmarks in this? One of them I mentioned: the collectivity of risk sharing. We do not want a shift, not a sneak shift, from collective to private. Every now and then you read in an in-between: you may build up less collective pension, but you may save a little more tax-free on your own bank account and then you will be fine. That is a shift from the second to the third pillar. If we have to move, we would rather move from the second to the first pillar than from the second to the third pillar. I see the Minister looking questionable. As I said, if I miss the point, I'm wrong, but I'd like to hear it in his first term. For the time being, I think my reasoning holds. A second central value that we want to ensure is the balanced way in which employers and employees both bear their responsibilities. Or just to put it classically, because I like that: the ratio of labour-capital. I do not think it is the intention that, if 60 billion is to be nailed down here, the labour factor as a whole will have to bear the risks. My question to the Minister is how he wants to ensure that during this whole transition or double transition or no matter how many transitions it will be, the capital factor will continue to fully assume its responsibility and will also participate fully, so that the risks are not unilaterally placed in the labour factor. The third thing we will look closely at is that of course the different funds have quite different positions. That's no easy thing to do either. If you're in a strong fund with a coverage rate of 130%, it'll all work out. If you are in a fund that already barely makes it, then it will not get any more cheerful, especially if there happens to be just as many participants who are in the category where the biggest redistribution effects are. How does the Minister intend to ensure balance and solidarity in this respect? The bell of obedience is ticking. I have one more point, and that is the Dijsselbloem Committee, the Committee on Parameters, and of course the controversial issue of the calculation rate. I have tried to read very carefully on my free weekend everything that has been written about it and also exchanged in the Lower House, and also the questions from our Chamber that the Minister has answered. Finally, I read: we do it with a risk-free calculation rate and because we do it with a risk-free calculation rate and the market rate is low, you come back low and then you can't index it as quickly as possible; in short, what you put in it comes out again. My question is not whether that reasoning is correct, because it is correct. Our question is whether there would be any other reasoning, or whether there would be another, solid foot to look at the possibility for pension funds to meet their obligations in the future. I understand that's exciting. I'm not one of those people who say, "Jump it, guys, there's money in the cash box, not looking at tomorrow, spend it." That would be bad. Then you are right to say that today's elderly people are parasitic on the future elderly, who are now the young ones. The opposite seems to be the case now. An incredibly low interest rate is being calculated long-term that there is about nothing possible, while there was money in the cash. Then it's about the opposite. Then you could say, while the money is there, that the elderly from now on should not benefit from it in the hope that the young, who are then the elderly, will soon benefit from it. This is a little laver between Scylla and Charybdis. I understand from time to time from the Minister that he is willing to do so, because he wants to maintain it, but perhaps not, but perhaps a sort of yes. I would very much like to hear in his second term whether he is prepared to consider with other parties whether you should have a more nuanced system, which serves both the purpose of solvency, because in fact that is what is responsible for that low interest rate, and the objective that the Minister himself always says he wants to serve, namely that there should be fewer cuts. We have to be honest about that, too. Other speakers have already said it. If you have a capital-protected system and interest rates are below zero for years, zero or just above zero, you get into this problem. Then we can have whole system developments, but then you're really gonna die. So we're gonna have to find something on that. The question is also whether there may be international examples. I like to hear that, because I think that this is a very important point for the social acceptance and sustainability of the system we are talking about. Mr. Chairman. That's it for my first term. We are going to talk about this in detail in future. I hope that I have given an insight into the lines along which we will approach future proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After studying mathematics in Utrecht for a year, you started studying theology in Tilburg. Larger opposites I can hardly imagine: from pronounced beta to equally pronounced gamma. As a graduate theologian, you started working in the welfare and education work. Soon you combined that with the membership of the Tilburg City Council. In the early 1990s you took a trip to education when you became a teacher management at the Academy of Journalism and Information. From 1994 to 2002 you were in Tilburg alderman housing, environment and district development for GroenLinks. After that you were director/director of Kompaan and De Bocht for more than seven years, civil society organisations for youth care and women's care. Since 2011 you have been director/driver at housing corporation Casade in Tilburg. In addition, you are a member of the supervisory boards of the William Schrikker Group and of the Combination Youth Care Eindhoven and surroundings. Together with VVD-senator Van der Burg, you were still an informant at the college formation in Vlaardingen in March of this year. At your party GroenLinks you are part of the Permanent Programme Committee. You wrote in your biography on the website of the First Chamber that your hobbies include both poetry and the gallery of the Breda football club NAC. A broad spectrum of hobbies. These two hobbies come together in the club song of NAC. I quote: "The world will not perish, as long as love persists." In another context, you once said that you think it is important that people continue to learn, develop and renew. With the membership of the First Chamber, you also give substance to that conviction. Once again, welcome. I shall suspend the sitting to give the House the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I myself have been the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u12	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 7:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u13	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 35223, Amendment of the General Old-age Law, the Law on Income Tax 1964, the Act on Increase in AOW and Pension Orientation Age, the Act on Accelerating Step-by-Speed Increase in AOW Age and the Law on Compensations for Wage Domain in connection with the temporalisation of the step-by-step increase in AOW age, the Act on Temporisation Increase in AOW Age. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to the President for his election and also my compliments on the maiden speeches by Mr Frentrop, Mr Van Ballekom, Mrs Moonen, Mr Crone and Mr Van Gurp. Of course Mr Crone's maiden speech is not really a maiden speech; it feels a bit strange. And also thanks to your Chamber for the speedy handling of this bill. There's some time pressure on it, as you know, because of the requirement to know. So thank you very much for the quick treatment that has been made possible by your room. The draft law before us, which aims to speed up the increase in the age of AOW, is part of the agreement in principle for which there is fortunately broad support, both in the polder and also in the Lower House. And I am very pleased that there is now agreement with the social partners on the reform of the second pillar of our pension system, and on the broad support that exists today, both in polder and in politics, for the pace with which we are increasing the AOW age. I am also pleased that there is now an important breakthrough in the area of sustainable employability and heavy professions. For your order, Mr President, I have divided my answer into a number of cubes. I will begin with an introduction and questions about ageing and the age of AOW. Then I would like to comment on the AOW law, which is really ahead of us tonight, including the implementation questions that play a part in it. I am keeping the third block short and it is mainly about the pension agreement, the process with the steering committee and what is to come next. I would like to touch very briefly on the questions that have been raised about the content of the pension agreement and also on the question of the calculation rate. To be honest, I think it belongs to another debate, which we are going to have later. So today I really want to focus on the AOW age and sustainable employability. I will reply briefly to some of the questions that have been asked about this, but I will try to do so a little bit smoothly, because I think we will talk about this even longer in the follow-up process. That is the order and that is the cubes I have prepared for you. I would like to come to a general introduction. In the pension agreement, therefore, the cabinet and the social partners agreed to work together on a good retirement provision for all. As Mr Crone said, this is indeed about the present and also about future generations. Efforts have been made to anchor balance for young and old in the pension agreement. That is why we want to reform the pension system and the AOW is also rising less rapidly and gradually. If we want to continue to pay for our facilities like the AOW, and to have enough people in our economy who can do all the work, we will also have to work with each other for longer. And older people can also work longer. We're seeing the exit age slowly rise. At the same time, we must also note that many people do not get their pensions in good health. We all know the examples of the street makers, the construction workers, the people in care. They've been talking about that in the polder for years. The government and the social partners see that bottlenecks are now being experienced, and research also shows that, despite the gradual increase in the age of AOW, 40% of people still feel attacked or have difficulty in reaching that age of AOW. Now, with this pension agreement, we have finally been able to make good agreements on this issue, in fact, on the composition of the AOW age, the heavy professions and the pension system. The cabinet will also invest heavily in sustainable employability. The cabinet provides EUR 200 million per year for this purpose for four years, and 10 million in structural terms to anchor this sustainable employability. We also increase the possibility of deciding as an employee when to quit, for example through part-time pensions or through generational pact schemes, but also by allowing two years of leave savings. These are measures that need time to be sufficiently effective, and we also need to be honest with each other on this. That is why the agreement in principle also made short-term agreements. Employers and employees can make temporary tailor-made arrangements that allow to stop working up to three years earlier than the AOW age. I'll come back to this in a little bit. Part of the package is also the current legislative proposal, which is now before you in your First Chamber, which temporizes the increase in the AOW age. In order to give employers and employees the time to make agreements on these heavy-duty professions, and for those who are now just before retirement, the AOW age up to 2024 will be increased less quickly by the legislative proposal that is now before us. In 2020 and 2021, the AOW age will remain at 65 years and 4 months and then gradually increase to 67 years in 2024. Mr Frentrop asked if the AOW was social heritage. I can say in full force: yes. It is an extremely important anchor, an important cornerstone of our social security system. That is one of the reasons why we in the Netherlands have little poverty among retired people. From the beginning of the legislation, first by Mr Drees and then by Mr Suurhoff, that was an important objective. I am also pleased that our system scores very well in international comparisons. If you look at poverty among retired people, you can see that it is extremely low in the Netherlands thanks to our well-developed pension system. I would like to add that at the time, when the AOW was created, there were already sounds that the number of years could not remain constant. It was already predicted that life expectancy would increase. In 1956, Mr Drees and Mr Suurhoff indicated that they should be linked to the increase in life expectancy. And that's what happens now, after a very long period of time. In this sense, this is in line with the objective of the AOW as enshrined in the law in 1956. Mr Frentrop, Mr Crone and Mr Koffeman asked what the background was. The debate on ageing, huh? Mr Crone and Mr Koffeman said that life expectancy has increased considerably. When the AOW was introduced in 1956, the average remaining life expectancy was 14.4 years. In 2018 this was still 19.9 years. That is, of course, an average, around which there is a large spread of course. I told you. It is an increase of 5.5 years in 60 years, I'll say, so it's a significant increase in life expectancy. We are generally healthier and therefore getting older, so it is just a very nice development in the Dutch economy and also in Dutch society. This means that the ratio between the number of active and inactive people has changed considerably. I thought Mr Crone said that in 1956 the ratio was still 1:6. So there were six people who worked on one person who received AOW. In 2018, that ratio fell to 1:4 and in 2040 it went to 1:2.5. This means that the basis for support under our collective provisions is decreasing. That is why we need to review our AOW in the light of these changing demographic conditions, which you also see in spending on the AOW: this year, in my budget, EUR 40 billion. In 1960 it was 2.5% of GDP, but in the meantime it is almost 5% of GDP. That is more than an eighth of total public expenditure. We don't often think about that, but that 40 billion covers about eight times the National Police or four times what we spend in the Netherlands on Defence. This also shows that together we attach great importance to this good first pillar, to this provision to combat poverty. The increase continues in the coming decades, up to about 6.1% of GDP in 2060, partly due to longer life expectancy and more people who are getting very old in good health. Linking the AOW age to that life expectancy is an important contribution to making our collective facilities sustainable and affordable. It ensures that our AOW can continue to be paid and that we can maintain the arrangements. Mr Koffeman asked why there is no fundamental change of view of the AOW and why, for example, there is no reference to making it dependent on income. That question is in fact in line with Mr Frentrop's. Of course, it's public insurance. It is the first pillar, the foundation of our pension system. A lot of workers do not pay a pension premium on the franchise, on the level of the AOW. This makes the AOW an integral part of the pension provision in the Netherlands. If you make that income dependent, a very large part of the Netherlands has a substantial income gap. That has always taken this into account when building up the pension and has also not paid a pension contribution. So it sounds nice to ask why you should not only focus it on people who need it, but it has fundamental consequences and also goes against the nature of public insurance. And that's the AOW, regardless of whether you've worked in the Netherlands or not. If you've ever lived in the Netherlands, you're just entitled to AOW. That is why such a fundamental review as Mr Koffeman proposes has not been discussed. It would turn the whole system upside down. Mr Van Strien, but also Mr Kox and Mr Van Rooijen asked about the comparison with other countries in this context. I've got numbers here. I can read it, but that doesn't seem to make much sense. What you do see is that, for example, in Germany, Belgium, France and Scandinavia, there is a considerable debate about the rise in retirement age. In Germany, for example, they go to 67 years from the birth cohort 1964, so in 2031. In the Netherlands it remains with the new link we agreed in the pension agreement, expected until 2027 at 67 years. In France, you only get a full state pension when you are 67 years old. If you are 62 years old, you can take a part, but that is actually similar to the Netherlands, because here you can also take your supplementary pension earlier if you want. This, of course, is not attractive financially at all, but the same applies to France. If you take that at the age of 62, you'll give up a very large part of your pension income. In Belgium, the retirement age is 65 years in 2019, 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030. About the same applies to Denmark, a country with which we often compare ourselves, even when it comes to the pension system. A Mercer comparison always indicates: The Netherlands and Denmark are number 1 and number 2 in terms of pension system. In Denmark it is 65 years in 2019, but in 2022 it has been 67 years. Denmark is therefore going one step faster than the Netherlands, then linking it to the increase in life expectancy to 68 years in 2030. All in all, the development in the Netherlands is very similar to that in the neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u15	I have also not escaped the fact that things are going on in the rest of Europe, but my question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me that we are really at the forefront here, especially in relation to the average of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u16	That is what Mr Schalk said in the event of interruption. You can't see that completely apart from what we're trying to achieve with each other. One of our ambitions is that we pursue a high replacement rate in our pension system. That means a high income after retirement. That can only be done if you have sufficient support in the economy to finance this. That's why you can't separate yourself from this discussion about the high replacement rates. But I have just outlined what is happening in Germany, France, Belgium and Denmark. Then you can see that this discussion is taking place in all these systems. Everyone recognizes that the age needs to be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u17	It seems logical to me that as you retire later, in those few years you have left, you get a higher income. The fact remains, however, that we are at the forefront of raising the retirement age in an unfavourable way. At least that's what my party hates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u18	On the other hand, we are ensuring that our collective arrangements are sustainable in the future, that they also allow us to make a fair comparison of welfare state arrangements between generations, and that we perform well economically. That's all part of it. I have just outlined in my introduction that the ratio between the number of active and inactive people is going to grow really uneven over the next few years. That is why we need to be prepared for this kind of legislation. As part of my introduction, Mr Kox asked when the AOW would become more prosperous. The AOW is currently indexed twice a year. This is linked to the development of the minimum. This is derived from collective wage developments. Because of this method of indexing, the AOW benefit is in line with the remuneration of workers. This has always been the case in recent years, even during the crisis years. This means that the AOW has always been indexed. He hasn't been decoupled in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u19	I thank the Minister for his detailed description of developments abroad. We always have to look at that. I found it remarkable that he said that the 67 years will be achieved in 2027. We had hinted indirectly at this in our written questions. In other words, after 2025, it still stands still for two years. That brings me to the question of whether the Minister, who has known these figures for a long time, has ever considered in the negotiations to say: do you know what, if the 67 years of freezing is not achieved until 2027, can we not follow Germany's example and stop it until 2030? In time for 2030, for example in 2027 or 2028............................................................................................................................................................ In fact, that means that you don't simply push the slower coupling mechanism, which is an improvement, when an autopilot continues. Instead, you're saying we're gonna shut the case down for 67 years in 2027. Like Germany, we'll shut it down until 2030 and then we'll see what we'll do afterwards. That means longer rest on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u20	What are we supposed to do with each other? The current law would achieve 67 years in 2021. We have agreed that it will increase less quickly, namely that by 2024 the age of 67 will be reached and then we will link it to the increase in life expectancy. If we look now at the expected increase in life expectancy, which remains, of course, statistics, or even more, forecasts, we expect it to remain up to 2027 67 and only to be increased gradually thereafter. The estimate is that in 2038 we will reach 68 years. That's the expectation we have now. If you look any further, heading 2060, we expect to be at about 69 and 6 months, but that's based on the current estimation of life expectancy. We have seen over the last few years that flu waves can prevent them, so to speak. But my comparison was broader, namely that this discussion is being held in all the countries around us and that we are setting a predictable path with this pension agreement, on which people can base their behavior and expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u21	Mr. Van Rooijen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u22	Are you prepared to explain in writing these figures, which already go much further than we thought in the short term, and what you said about 68 years in 2038, on the basis of existing life expectancy? You have that knowledge and I like it if we can share it. I will come back to my question about Germany. Is it conceivable, or would it have been conceivable, that I should perhaps say that until 2030 we would stop at 67 years, as in Germany, and you also mentioned other countries, and to see between now and 2030 what we really want, so that we are not already at 67,5 in 2030 and then go beyond, for example, the richer Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u23	I don't know if that last one's true, but it's completely off the record. Then there's the first question. These figures are already on the website of the SVB or the Ministry of SZW and I can send them to you. There's nodding, so that's right. That's one. Two: what I find so elegant and just is that we have agreed in the Netherlands that we will gradually increase the age of AOW. I found it very unfair, for example, in the 2011 agreements that someone who, so to speak, would become 65 could retire on 31 December 2019, while someone who became 65 on 1 January 2020 would have to work for a year longer. I found that very difficult to explain. That is why I think that the step-by-step increase, if announced on time and if predictable, is a better system than that shock-by-step increase, in response to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u24	In particular, for the report that will be made of this sitting. One: the minister needs a lot of words, but he cannot explain why the Netherlands is going faster than Germany, even until 2030. Yeah, because Germany's locking it down to 67. If the Minister says "we do" now, we are in the same boat. My question was: why do we always have to be so tough? What is the need or the urgent reason behind it? So I didn't get an answer to that. Secondly, the Minister was going to explain to me that the AOW was stable, but I knew that. I haven't been doing this file that long, but I noticed that. My comment was aside, because then we are not talking about the pension agreement. My question was about pensions in this country. While the pension pots are becoming more and more full, the content of the pension allowance is becoming increasingly military. I am also aware that this was something else, but for the report: you were explaining something to me that I had not asked for, and I hope to get an explanation of what I did ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u25	I will come back to that second point when I talk about pensions. Sorry about that. I couldn't imagine you didn't know that either. I thought that was weird. The first is the imperative. I just tried to explain that in my introduction. It is about affordability and support for our collective provision for the future. That is why we decided in 2012 in the spring agreement and then at Rutte II to step up it in the Netherlands and link it to life expectancy, also because of intergenerational fairness, which Mr Crone mentioned in his introduction. I think that's very sensible. I have just outlined what is happening in the countries around us. Denmark is faster and Germany is less fast than the Netherlands. At the same time, we also see that Germany will have problems in the future in financing state pensions with the pay as you go system or the pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go system. You're gonna have to take all that into consideration. We have a good pension system in the Netherlands, with a high replacement rate, and we would like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u26	Let's get back to the AOW. A nice exhibition in 2038 and 2060. That seems a long way away, except when you start thinking about your own children, because they're about to have something to do with it. I have already asked my question in the first period. So maybe this will come back, but I did like to link it to this. What if life expectancy falls dramatically? This does not have to be due to a flu attack, but there may also be other circumstances that clearly alter the average age. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u27	That question is in my set. I will come back to that later, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u28	I wanted to hear the figures from abroad, but I also want to show the other side of the coin. Not to mention the other side of the mark, guilder or euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u29	We don't have one anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u30	The Minister said that the sum is that in 2040 there are only 25 pensioners. But then all these people will be working until they're 69.5. If you want to keep the retirement age at 65, that ratio will get worse. Then those people will be out by the time they're 65 or 66, or sooner. I'd like to see the cost of that. Quitting work earlier is always good, but then the account is one-sided elsewhere; or tax, or among young people in general. So this has two sides. Just because of the intergenerational relationship between young and old I am motivated for an attractive graduality, and not those brutal steps. 'Cause you're gonna get it. The SP and 50PLUS must then say that in three or four years they go up in one blow by a year. It's either gradual or sudden, but there's no such thing as a free lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u31	I think that was mainly an interruption debate between Mr Kox and Mr Crone. I agree with Mr Crone. By way of illustration and indication: freezing the AOW age at 66 years would cost around €22 billion per year, for the AOW and pensions. It would also have a very significant impact on the labour market. The labour force will then shrink, and this will significantly reduce the support for our collective provision. This applies not only to the AOW, but also to health care. I therefore agree with Mr Crone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u32	Mr. Crone, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u33	My question, addressed to you, was to show in the timetable you are going to send us how much billion will be added if the age in 2040 is not 69.5 but only 66 or 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u34	We have the figures on what that means for the potential workforce. We can send it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u35	I don't have to ask for new numbers about something I already know. Can the Minister confirm that the employment discount, which now costs 20 billion, makes the effective AOW contribution for workers 5% to 10%? If the premium for the AOW would be levied on the entire premium income of €35,000, this means that you can settle for a premium for the AOW of 12%, and not 18%. This is proof that, without the reduction in working hours, a reduction in the tax rate for workers alone may be much lower. In other words, the AOW is therefore very affordable if all workers pay a kind of cost-covering premium without the employment discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u36	I think it's true that the AOW is affordable if you increase the tax in the first disk by 7 percentage points. But then I think there are quite different effects, including on the labour market and purchasing power. I think this is out of the order of the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u37	Mr. Van Rooijen, briefly. Then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u38	I asked this question in the Senate at the time. So the answers are on paper. If the AOW premium is levied on the premium income up to €35,000 without an employment discount, the premium would not be 18% but 12%. I'm just saying that because of the mantra, or the image that the AOW is priceless because there are so few workers. Those workers pay less premium than they should. As a result, a third of the AOW expenditure of 40 billion is already paid by taxes which the elderly also pay, so that they also have to pay for their own AOW. I'll pay my own AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u40	I also think that the latter is right, given that you still have income and pay taxes. But that's completely out of the question. Of course you can raise taxes to pay things. Everyone understands that. The point is that we in the Netherlands are having a discussion about purchasing power, about the development of disposable income and about the fact that people do not yet feel economic growth in their pockets. If you did this, you'd get another... Mr President, I am going to focus on the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u41	I'd love to, Minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u42	Mr Ester asked if we were too fast in 2012 and 2015. Firstly, and I have just said this: as a cabinet, we believe that the increase in the AOW age is unabated, including for the long term. That's because of all the discussions we've just had. At the same time, we have seen in recent years, including in the research I have just referred to, that many people do not make it in good health and experience it as a heavy burden. We tried to do justice to that in the pension agreement. I myself think that the lack of an action perspective in particular has been a real problem here. For example, the debate on heavy-duty professions has been going on since 2011. There was never a good answer to that, so as an employee or an employer you do not have the perspective of action to act on it individually. We will now add that to the pension agreement. In addition, I think that I will come back to the issue of sustainable employability, which is also linked to a cultural change in the labour market that is necessary and which we have actually put in place too late. Let me put it this way: we still have to make it. But I'll come back to that later. I am therefore pleased with the agreements reached in the agreement which will increase the scope for action with the social partners for employers and employees to be able to deliver tailor-made work. I believe that this has been one of the bottlenecks in recent years in the laws that were there. Mrs Oomen, Mr Kox and Mr Schalk asked about the groups that have the advantage or disadvantage of the law that is now before us. I gave a comprehensive answer to that in the written set. Indeed, between 165,000 and about 220,000 people per year in the period from 2020 to 2024. That is not cumulative; it is per year. They are of course very large cohorts who will retire in the coming years and will be covered by the AOW. About 55% of this total is working. Then you have AOW plus pension. About 25% are entitled to benefits. Some of them are now included in the social minimum benefits. That's about 17%. They are improving because the AOW is higher than the social minimum. 8% of the total has a wage-related benefit: a WW, WIA or WAO benefit. But that has a huge spread, so it is extremely difficult to understand how many people are getting better now or are getting worse. The precise consequences are therefore very difficult to estimate for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u43	Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u44	Can I answer two more questions in this context? Because they belong together. Mr Schalk asked whether it was true that the 8% involved some 16,000 people. Yeah, that's about right. It concerns 16,000 to 17,000 people per year who are at risk of declining in that period, because they go to the AOW and come out of the WW. I must add, however, that a lot of people have of course worked before and are entitled to a supplementary pension that can take effect. We do not have that insight, so it is very difficult to assess that. We do have an understanding of the number of people who have already taken up their pension. That is actually Mrs Oomen's question. That is why I said in the written answers that I am prepared to amend the pension legislation in the Pays Tax Act in order to allow people to adjust the degree of variation in the pensions already applied. This happened a few years ago, also at the request of Mrs Oomen, when it went the other way. This had to make it possible to adapt to the increase in the AOW age, which is now different from what had previously been expected. With this I try to make it possible to offer customization for individuals, but a generic scheme to compensate people is technically impossible. That is why we have put so much pressure on the rapid treatment, because of these awareness requirements, so that people know what they are up to six months in advance. That's just a combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u45	When I look that way, the minister has become very vague, but it's because of the sun. His answers were not so vague, but a repetition of what was already in the written answers. We didn't have much time to ask questions, but the answers came quickly and I had already heard them. They had already been placed in the Lower House and the answer was already there. Only now does the Minister add a word in his last sentence: it is technically impossible, so we cannot compensate 16,000 people or part of them, who are probably familiar with social security numbers. I would rather think: if all 200,000 had to be compensated over a period of four years, that would have been a huge problem. But the group is very small, and that is why the Minister says: we cannot help these people. That's not gonna happen to me. A minister who can put so many figures together can also find and compensate those 16,000 people. So it's a matter of political will. The issue can hardly be that it is priceless. You yourself said what it would cost to pay for the polder's pension plans, as you call them. So it's a matter of political will to compensate those people. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u46	The First Chamber always places a great deal of emphasis on the feasibility of regulations. In that group of 16,000 people, there is a risk that they will lose their income, but we are not sure. We do not know what the amount of the benefit is, but we do not know whether the supplementary pension can enter into at the time of the AOW-age. People who have a WW benefit or a WIA benefit have a working history. Otherwise, you're not entitled to employee insurance. So there is a good chance that they will have a supplementary pension. The only thing I am saying is that it is very complicated to implement a compensation scheme for those 16,000 people. The target group is also very diverse. We don't know exactly what the income gap is. It's about a difference in a limited period of a few months. In the execution of course we also have some things to eat. I don't know if you saw Nieuwsuur last night, for example, about the UWV. So I do not want to burden the performers with an unexecutable regime either. That is the short and concise answer. It's not about the amount of the money. It's really about what's practically feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u47	I really have to make one comment. Bringing up the problems at the UWV in order not to be able to do anything else, I think it's a bit tricky. For who is ultimately politically responsible for the UWV being in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u48	Me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u49	Yeah, that's why. So I do not think that is an argument: somewhere else, at least under my responsibility, I am not doing my job very well, and that is why I cannot do anything else. The problem is getting smaller and smaller. You say that there are 16,000 or less, but I cannot solve it because it is unfeasible. But you can also suggest that people report it or apply for it. You'll get 16,000 forms. Well, you can do that. It is my concern that the Minister should indicate that there is actually an unintentional problem, an update, collateral damage of legislation. This legislation can, moreover, count on broad support, I assume, in this House as well. But the Minister says: since it is such a small group, I cannot compensate it, because that is not possible. I simply do not believe in that, in this incredibly intelligent country and with this incredibly intelligent minister. There's a will. There's a way out of this if there's a will. The point is raised not only by the SP, but by several parties, even in the Lower House. Everyone wants to prevent people from getting hurt by something that wasn't meant to happen. It's damage that wasn't meant to happen. I would therefore ask the Minister to give some thought, perhaps in his second term, to whether there is really nothing to be done to solve this small problem. Because by solving small problems, you can gain great confidence in the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u50	I will stick to Mr Kox's first point. Yes, I'm responsible for the execution. From this responsibility, I also think that I should say it in time when things are simply unwise to go down in implementation, because it leads to new problems, also given the discussion we have had over the last period of time on a number of parts. I do think that's my responsibility. It is therefore my responsibility to make a choice and to say: we cannot do this, because this burden burdenes the execution disproportionately. That's one. I also think I should say that to you occasionally as a ruler. Both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber tend to make all kinds of exceptions to regulations, making it more complex in the execution. With that the ball bounces back towards Mr. Kox. The second point. If you see the relatively small group, but also the diversity of the group and the uncertainty about the income effects, and given the fact that we are trying to clarify exactly six months in advance so that people can adjust their behaviour, and given the fact that this is in the direction of Mrs Oomen................................................................................................................................................................... This is also because of the feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u51	Imagine if the AOW age had gone to 65 years, would that have caused even bigger problems? But it's not just a change to the Paying Tax Act for the people whose pension has taken effect. It is also about the pension they have already agreed on and have not yet entered into. Is the Minister prepared to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u52	I will come back to that in the second term, if you will. I'll take a look upstairs. Mr Gijs van Dijk also asked a question about this in the House of Representatives. I shall come back to that in the second term, Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u53	In his written replies, the Minister made it clear that 8% of the approximately 200,000 people are affected, i.e. 16,000 people. Now I understand that he says: of those 16,000 people there is also a certain percentage that does not get into trouble at all? Is that a percentage that can still be found? I can tell from him that the answer is "no." But imagine now that an estimate can be made of the loss of income. Are we talking about thousands of euros a month, hundreds of euros or tens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u54	Even that's very complicated to answer. It is very simple to ask: what is your income gap when you are in pay-related benefits, such as WW, WIA or WAO, and you go to the AOW? That's very diverse. There are people who, for example, have partial disability benefits and legal aid. Or people who have WW. But the question is how long they have WW. According to the law, that's a maximum of two years. So how much longer will it take? Next, the question is how many supplementary pensions these people have built up that they can take up, so they see their income rise again. That is why this question is so difficult to answer specifically and can only give a gross indication of the size of the groups. I will continue with the linking of the AOW age to life expectancy. A few questions have also been asked about this. Mr Van Strien asked if I could explain the theory behind the eight-month coupling. In fact, it is very simple: a kind of balance has been found between the duration of the working life and the average duration of the pension. If you tie it one-on-one, as we now have it in the law, the length of pension stays 18.3 years and the working part would grow relatively larger as life expectancy increases. By linking it up for eight months, the duration between working life and the duration of the pension remains relatively constant, even in the future. That's the theory behind it. Mr Schalk asked whether they were cast in concrete for eight months. We have three considerations to make. Agreements have been made with the social partners; that is one. Two. Of course, we have a substantial financial account: one month is about EUR 800 million. Two months off would mean EUR 1.6 billion in structural terms. But there is also Mr Crone's point: the labour market effect. With this, you have an extra big impact on the potential workforce. That's why they didn't choose it. Mr Schalk also asked what would happen if life expectancy fell unexpectedly. I understand the question. In 2012 we also had the debate on this in the Lower House. It is a hypothetical question, because we think life expectancy will continue to rise over the next few decades through medical technology, through healthier food and because people exercise more. But I do understand the question and it will certainly come back when we start dealing with the law later. But it's not on the table right now. In the current law this has been frozen and cannot be adjusted downwards, also because of some kind of predictability. But I'll come back to that when we start dealing with the law on coupling. The same goes for Crone's question. Actually, I just answered it. Mr Kox and Mr Van Rooijen asked whether I can confirm that the one-to-one link is definitely off the table. And can the Minister confirm that another government is free to come up with other legislation? The latter, of course, always applies. If there have been elections, it may be that there is another coalition, that there is another majority. Perhaps Mr Van Rooijen will get a majority on his own across the street. Then, of course, another choice may be made. That is, of course, to the next formation. But the one-to-one link that we have now abandoned in the pension agreement is, of course, that we are going to work out the full agreement in principle with the social partners in the coming period. That also includes the adapted link at those eight months. That's why a new bill comes to your Chamber, first to the Lower House and then to the Upper House, which is also part of it. I personally think it is important that we do this together with the social partners, and also with the second pillar of the pension system, so that they can also be dealt with together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u55	My question was actually a slightly different one, regardless of how the elections will end next time, for anyone else. I understood from the documents and also from the presentation that was held in the SER building at the time.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And we have a number of agreements for the supplementary pension system. There is a steering group that still has to work out all the basic arrangements. I have the next question following what I have read and heard. If, at the end of the day, there would be no agreement on these supplementary pensions, if the steering committee and the trade unions did not agree and say that indexing ambition had not been achieved, will this softer link still continue or is it part of the overall pension agreement for AOW and supplementary scheme? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u56	The danger of asking like-dan is that you're going to have a discussion about whether it's a threat. I don't want to threaten you at all. I just want to work out the overall package together with the social partners. Those are the new pension contract, the new AOW law, the new link. I am also confident that we can do this together because of the fine agreement of principle that we have concluded with each other. So if it's okay with you, I won't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u57	My question was not so much a like-dan question. My question is: what has been agreed? I believe it has been agreed that if the AOW delay in the next package and the steering group that is going to look at the whole indexing ambition, the targets and the means for it, it will not succeed, then it will be a level higher. That's what Busker said. I quoted it this morning. And if they don't come out of it, then there's no more agreement on the trade unions. I understand the Minister would like an agreement to be reached. That goes for us, too. But my question is this. What if the steering group fails and if it does not get out at the higher level, is the softer coupling going on or not? That's a factual question. It's "just in case." Then you can say that you are not going to go into that because it is a question of a dance, but I think we need to know what the consequences are, given the agreements that are very hard on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u58	With all due respect, this is an as-dan question. We have made an agreement with each other, we have reached an agreement in principle that we are going to work this out with each other, that we are going to achieve the goals. This includes the total package of agreements. This is also literally stated in both the ESC opinion and my cabinet letter, which has also been endorsed by the social partners. If I said that if something happened, I wouldn't do anything else, that would be taken as a threat. And I don't want to do that at all, because we've just made very nice appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u59	Mr. Van Rooijen, your last question. I'll give you a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u60	I will respond in detail to the Minister's reply. You have already told me twice that I must be short in the second term. I'll try to. But I need a minute. I will say it very briefly in one sentence. This morning, I reported the following. To the FD's question that the calculation rate button is the mark rate, Busker replied: if we do not achieve those goals, that indexing ambition, then we go back to the table; as far as we are concerned it is sacred that we also achieve those goals. Earlier in this morning's quote, it says, "If we don't get out of it, it has to go to the higher level." And if they don't come out, then there's no deal. That's what the trade union movement says, one of the partners at the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u62	Mr. Chairman. I'll be right back, by block four and five, to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u63	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u64	Mr Ester asked why a legislative cut was made between the short-term AOW and the long-term AOW. That's also because of the rush. The fact that there should be another AOW age on 1 January 2020 also means that the law now before us had to be dealt with urgently by the Second and First Chambers. For the other parts we just have more time. This applies to the heavy-duty professions, which apply to the adjustment of the one-to-one link, but also to the different parts of the pension contract. I have indicated in the House of Representatives that I will be presenting a roadmap in the autumn. It indicates when the different parts, including the different pieces of legislation, will be present. I'll send it to the First Chamber in a copy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u65	The minister is gonna be famous in this house for his railroad records and road maps. I think it would be wise to do so. I asked because these two measures are linked in substance one-on-one. We want rest on the pension front. The Minister is convinced of this with us. That is the only reason why it would have been good if this had been done in one go. Then you'll take care of it in one go. Now in a few years' time we have to come up with a story that might look a bit different again, which might lead to a message that doesn't quite land well. There's also a certain risk involved. It would have been elegant if this could have been done in one go. Of course, things have to be worked out, but that also applies to the legislative proposal we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u66	I understand Mr Ester's question. If we had added this to this bill, it would have become a lot more complex. Then we really should have figured out some things. Given the haste and the urgency to clarify before 1 January 2020 with the requirement of awareness, which is six months in advance, we have chosen to give this section priority as a matter of urgency. By the way, this law goes until 2024. In other words, he's five years ahead, '20, '21, '22, '23, '24. There's clarity now. After that, the new clutch will apply. In a way there is still some time to work this out properly. Then I'll come to a few questions about the cover. Mr Ester had also asked a question about the total financial consequences of this bill, including the fifteen years taken to provide cover. Mr Van Ballekom also asked questions about the coverage and referred to my past as an inspector of the State finances and head of budgetary policy. Less strongly linking the AOW age increase to life expectancy will be regulated through a separate legislative proposal. To this end, it costs around €3.2 billion in sustainability terms. That's all there is to it: expenses and burdens. In the cabinet response we have already indicated how that will be covered. It is largely due to the expected improvement in sustainability due to higher participation rates. The Central Planning Bureau has written a note about this which has also been sent along with the documents of the pension agreement. In November there will be an update from the Central Planning Bureau on the shelf life figures. In anticipation, the Central Planning Bureau has already mapped out the AOW and the participation, because they knew of course that this question would come within the framework of the pension agreement. That's why they made that analysis. This shows that this participation is much higher than previously expected. As a result, tax revenues are much higher. This also creates space to shape this other link. Mr Ester had also asked the CPB to identify the feasibility effects of the pension agreement. Yeah, that's what's gonna happen. This is included in the update of the shelf life figures in November. Mr Kox asked whether opposition parties could now also call on public finances for coverage. I think that's a funny question. The short-term part of the pension agreement, namely the law that we are discussing today, is of course simply governed by the frameworks. The budgetary implications and the coverage I have correctly indicated in this bill. Those fifteen years, LIV and Youth LIV are part of the coverage. The other part is about the shelf life. I have just indicated where that cover is coming from in the direction of Mr Ester. For the short term and the current period, of course, the budgetary frameworks and the budgetary rules that I, as a minister and you as a chamber, have been kept to. For the long term, far beyond this cabinet period and also far beyond the budgetary horizon, from 2025, we made this agreement with each other. But I do understand your question, and I think he's kind of funny. If you do that, I will not rule out the cabinet saying: you have no cover; I will discourage your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u67	In fact, the answer is yes, but not in the short term. The question is asked, of course, because the Minister does the same. I understand his answer and yes is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u68	I think the reaction of many of my colleagues will be that it is uncovered. I should like to warn you about the next debates. Mr Crone and Mr Van Ballekom had asked about the robustness of the sums. I remember Mr Crone as a Member of Parliament when I was still working at the Ministry of Finance and the Study Group on Budget Space presented the twelfth report on the robust primary EMU balance. Mr Crone was a big fan of that. I know that Mr Van Ballekom is also a big fan of that study group. Indeed, these shelf life figures are updated periodically. At the end of the year there will be a new study for the longer term. Then we are actually talking about total arrangements, the AOW, the health care, everything that we in the Netherlands have in terms of costs and expenses. Such a sustainability balance depends on the economic starting point and assumptions of the constant arrangements towards the future. So yes, it gives some robustness in the health of public finances in the longer term, regardless of the delusion of the day and regardless of the cyclical situation, and is therefore a good anchor for sound financial policy of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u69	In any case, I am also in favour of the report by Mr Kox: I am very much in favour of the study group on budgetary space, but that does not mean that the political choices that follow are good. The assumption is that the long-term burden should be constant, while I believe that if citizens are allowed to opt for a little more burden, better care, better elderly provision and better climate policy, that should be negotiable. But that's a suggestion for the next cabinet formation. Coen Teulings, former director of the CPB, says that, in order to keep the government debt constant, we need to spend 15 billion extra a year. I hope that the study group will take this with it in the next round.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u70	As you know, the study group is completely independent of the cabinet. All we do is give a job assignment. I'm sure we'll get wise advice for the long term. Apart from that, I also think that this is a serious answer, namely that at this very moment the debate on disposable income, on burden development and on disposable income is partly distorted by the debate on health contributions and on pension contributions. Part of the explanation for lagging behind in disposable income is in this collective burden, which is increasing to finance our collective arrangements, which also brings out a lot of grumpy. In principle, therefore, I agree with Mr Crone, but it would be good to make it transparent for everyone. Sorry, this is entrapment of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u71	Thank you for this entrapment. I agree with the technique of what you say, except at one point. It is not just a question of burden versus expenditure, but also of how far you want to pay off the sovereign debt. That is exactly what Coen Teulings, I think, is right to point out, if you keep the public debt at 60%, which is already necessary for pension funds. They should be able to buy their bonds somewhere. Pension funds can no longer invest in fixed-income bonds. This must be done by De Nederlandsche Bank, but more and more countries and citizens no longer issue fixed-income bonds. The knife cuts to your advantage on all sides, if you have this suggestion calculated as a scenario by the Budget Space Study Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u72	Then I'll come up with my procedural answer. I think that the members of the Study Group on Budget Space read very well the Financial Daily and Mr Teuling's documents. It's an independent club, and I'm glad it's not about that. Mrs Moonen, as well as Mr Ester, had questions about the communication of this bill, also towards the SVB, and about the letters sent to the people. That is a valid point. We know that a lot of letters are indeed seen as incomprehensible by people. Here's what we're gonna do. On the SVB website we will report on the impact of the bill on the AOW age. Also on the website Wijzer in money matters a calculation tool has been developed that can help people. In general, SVB can submit the communications to the pre-AOW community. There's a name for that. It tests for readability and comprehensibility of the letters and for people's perspective of action. For the legislative amendment that is now before us, the SVB will send an additional mailing to 850,000 people. That letter is going to be submitted to the pre-AOW community, precisely to look at the comprehensibility on this point. On this point, Mrs Oomen asked: does the Minister expect problems in implementation now that the date of 1 July has not been met? No, I don't expect that. Of course, we've already done some preliminary work. Before the pension agreement was concluded, we had already started things in order to be ready in time. UWV, SVB and the Tax Administration have indicated that implementation is possible if the proposal is final and is published in good time. They've indicated they need about six months. If you vote on it tonight, we're gonna make it. But I have already asked the SVB and the Tax Administration to start preparations. So they're already preparing. I asked them not to take irreversible steps, but to be ready for implementation. The point is that 1-1-2020 is also feasible. The last question in this context was from Mrs Moonen: can the Tax Administration implement this bill or not? That remark by the Tax Administration was not so much about the AOW age itself, but about the abolition of youth LIV and LIV. This has to do with the Income Tax Act. It's running. There were a few notes in there or we could do that in time. Then it's about the coverage of the AOW age. So the AOW age is no problem. There are really some points in the implementation here, but I think it will go into 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u73	Also when it comes to coverage, it is relevant to know whether they can get data, because the financial coverage of all the expenditure that needs to be done must also be achieved. That's not gonna happen. Can they or can they not, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u74	Yeah, we're assuming that's what's happening. That is only in 2024 and that is beyond the planning horizon, the portfolio, which is now known for the short term. I assume this can be integrated into the portfolio and will be carried out towards 2024. It is precisely this point that is one of the reasons why we did not accept the budgetary revenue until 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u75	That's a clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u76	Then a few questions about the follow-up process, about the pension agreement. Mr Schalk asked that explicitly. Just a short while down the bend there are several parts. First of all, what we have today, the AOW-age up to 2024. In addition, before the end of the year, I am trying to have the legislation ready that pension funds will not have to be reduced for the time being if they have a coverage level above 100%. It is likely to have to be dealt with in your Chamber before the second half of this year. The third point is that from 1 January 2021 it will be possible to adjust the threshold amount in the early exit levy. That too must be enshrined in legislation and thus also passes through the Lower House and the Upper House. The fourth point is that, on 1 January 2022, that is my ambition to create a legal framework for social partners to have the second pillar of pension ready. There are several legislative pathways that will be offered separately to your Chamber. That is why this steering committee has been set up, because there are so many issues of impact: the valuation framework, the growth paths, the cost coverage of the premium and all that kind of questions. They are therefore cut up in various legislative processes that will pass through your Chamber. Once again, I have promised Mr Omtzigt in the House of Representatives to create a roadmap in which these parts are all in place, so that your Chamber also knows what to expect about when. Mr Van Rooijen, Mrs Oomen and Mr Schalk asked about the composition, mission and science of the steering committee. I intend to set up the steering committee in close coordination with the social partners in the short term. The agreement agreed that the Steering Committee would consist of representatives of social partners and the Cabinet, i.e. employers' organisations and employees' organisations, a tripartite working group supported by pension practitioners, the DNB supervisor and an independent external expert. The Central Planning Bureau is also involved as an advisor in the elaboration. This concerns in particular the further development of the two proposed contracts in the pension agreement, the Improved Premium Scheme Act and the new contract, as well as the transition framework to the new situation. In addition, I will discuss and monitor the work of the steering committee on a regular basis in administrative consultation with the presidents of the trade unions and the presidents of the employers' organizations. In the direction of the House of Representatives, I have also promised that I will inform the Chamber about the progress made in that regard. It's in that road map so you can follow what's going on. The last question in this block, including from Mr Van Rooijen and Mrs Oomen, was about objectives and means. In the agreement, clear goals have been agreed, aimed at a more purchasing power pension, which fits the modern labour market and which leads to a more personal and transparent pension. That agreement also agreed that different means could be used to achieve these objectives. Think of the investment policy with lifecycle investment as an example. Think of the rules surrounding the spread of shocks. How many years do you take the time for that? How many years do you take to distribute returns? Do you do that in five years, in ten years or in eight years? Think of the design of the benefit phase. All these technical questions are connected. Let me give you a simple example: suppose you decide to pay the return you get in a year in five years. You'll have a better chance of indexing, because you'll pay off positive shocks faster. So you have a better chance of it disappointing a year later and having to cut you short afterwards. All these sums must be made in the steering committee, given the objectives we have agreed on. There are many more buttons in the pension system that we need to turn on if we are to manage this properly, also balanced towards different generations. There's a trade in it, too. You will hear that the interest rate is missing in this list. I do so knowingly, because I do not see the interest rate as an instrument, but as a description of economic reality. This is also stated in the ESC opinion and in my cabinet letter. What I did say, as I said in the House of Representatives, is that there are a lot of different instruments to ensure that the goals are achieved. I just mentioned three or four. They all need to be taken into account to see if we can achieve these three main objectives together. I'll be back in a minute to ask you about the interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u77	Do I understand correctly that the Minister is now saying 'I would also like him to say 'If the goal is achieved, the steering committee can use all the resources'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u78	Well, "all means" goes a little far. I think there are different means in the system, different buttons you can use, where you have to ask a question all the time... Let me give you an example: a more purchasing power pension. You can choose to index faster, distribute faster. Then you also have to bring: what is the chance of shortening? You have to find a balance in that. That's one of those effects we have to answer with each other. But the goal, the more purchasing power pension closer, connecting to a modern labour market and a more personal and transparent pension, is paramount. Among them are a great deal of money, which is the cost of the premium, I say to Mr Van Rooijen, who can be used to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u79	Thanks for the answer. There are, of course, other problems, including possible solutions. We'll talk about the average premium later. I didn't do that this morning. The 60 billion will lead to a reduction in indexation. My question about the steering committee, which I have also asked, was whether the steering committee is also given the task of looking at how the valuation measure is determined in the case of collective entry from the current to the second, new system. That could be the calculus rate. That's a bit of a word you're not allowed to use that much here, I understand, because it's outside again. But the Minister says that the valuation measure is also an important point in the question of how to convert it. Is that the risk-free interest rate or a higher interest rate? Then we get the omnipotence that risk-free interest rates are now bad for pensions. But if the valuation measure is not taken immediately because it would mean that those claims would be passed on high with a high obligation, then you also have a high right, and they are immediately said to be: well, those older people should actually have a lesser claim, because we are going to use a different charge rate than the only one according to the cabinet. In other words, there will be a tremendous redistribution war on the 1 400 billion. Is the steering committee going to advise on that valuation measure? If the Minister is consistent, doesn't he think that should be risk-free interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u80	I had Mr Van Rooijen's question here. I'm gonna answer that carefully. The Economic and Social Council recommends facilitating the maintenance of existing pension entitlements and pension rights. In other words, sailing in it. The cabinet is prepared to do so. That is a very complex operation, because it is indeed about the valuation of existing obligations from one contract to another. That too is a very complicated question. A valuation framework for the conversion of existing claims and rights will be set up in the coming period. It is developed in consultation with the pension sector and the supervisor. This is part of the steering committee's work. Mr Van Rooijen is right that this valuation framework is extremely important. That is why it is extremely important that this is done in a balanced, fair and transparent manner. We're gonna work that out with each other now. This also means looking at the effects for all generations, young and old, and taking into account the distribution of pension assets in the current nftk contract to the new contract. The cabinet's starting point is clear: every participant, young and old, must be able to assume that his existing pension claims and rights will be converted into the new contract in a fair, objective and balanced manner. This is a very complex issue, which we have been working on for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u81	I would like to thank the Minister for this clear answer, except for one point, namely risk-free interest rates. Will the Minister undertake that if there is only one rate of calculation, namely the existing risk-free interest rate, I have a different opinion on this, but that is the view of the Cabinet, which, in principle or in principle, should also be used for the valuation measure within the steering committee? It is not the case that the steering committee, in which everyone is present, is the Netherlands Bank, the Planning Bureau and I know who is going to say: yes, but of course we are not going to appreciate those claims at that low risk-free interest rate, because that would again be beneficial for the elderly? It's one of two. If it's really bad at first and if you're gonna transfer them, it's gonna have to be fair. Then it is the way risk-free interest should be. It's very clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u82	Well, for me it's a bit more complex, but I'll really come back to that in the effect. I am going to speak in detail with Mr Van Rooijen. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u83	I note that the Minister does not simply say that risk-free interest should be but perhaps something else. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u84	Shall we just have that debate when I have a proposal including a valuation framework based on the steering committee? Then we can discuss the advantages and disadvantages and the consequences. As Mr Van Rooijen knows, and there we agree, the cost of the premium is also included with an expected return. Mr Van Rooijen now shakes no, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u85	He's gonna have a second term. Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u86	Mr Van Rooijen beat me to it. He's much better at it, too, so I'll give him that. I'm going back to the question about purpose and resources, because this was an exposé. Mrs Oomen asked whether the goal was central. You replied "yes" and then you summarized the goal. I'd like to ask you a question about that. You said that the goal is a good pension for people, which is more often indexed than not, a personal transparent pension. But I do not hear you telling me what you have chosen, an extensive collective coverage. Would you confirm that this is also a primary objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u87	It's not a primary objective, it's a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u88	It's a prerequisite. Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u89	Yes, we have agreed together that the collective execution and the collective together cover risks, especially the longevity risk, a somewhat strange term in this context, are part of the collective pension contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u90	I urge a little, because it's usually a mantra: a personal pension with extensive collective coverage. I heard one of them, and the other one didn't. I just want to make sure. If you confirm that it's a harsh condition, I'm reassured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u91	Yes. There are two contracts in the pension agreement: the contract in accordance with the Improved Premium Scheme Act and the new contract. One has a personal pot in the construction phase and a collective benefit in the benefit phase. The other is about more collectivity, simply put. But for both of them, we are doing a collective implementation, we are trying to maintain the obligation and we are also doing it together because there are all kinds of economies of scale. So I call it a peripheral condition and not a goal. Mr Van Rooijen also mentioned the collective transfer of value and the individual right to object. We will also be working on this in the coming period. For example, it is a question of whether the rules on collective value transfer should be adapted in order to ensure that transposition takes place in a prudent and balanced way if social partners wish to do so. This will consider, inter alia, whether, and if so, how the individual right of objection can be adapted in the case of a collective transfer of value. The possibilities for approximation of legislation and its consequences will be identified in the coming months, including the process in the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u92	We'll talk about this collective venture later. I myself mentioned it in a television broadcast: we are going to Strasbourg, that is the Convention of Human Rights. If you collectively enter and transfer existing property rights into a softer system, then that was when the real contract and the new one will come, it is very similar to what we say: then we are going to Strasbourg. This can now also be Luxembourg, because the Court of Luxembourg is now also competent for pensions and protects property rights. An individual can go to the Court of Luxembourg to object to this expropriation and also to claim compensation. In other words, this is really a big, basic subject. Can the Minister promise that he is not just going to throw aside Article 83 - he said: or, if so, because that is what the previous system has been doing? Article 83 concerns the right of ownership of pensions of employed and retired persons. I would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to maintain that article, the individual right of ownership and the right to object.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u93	I have indicated that the work is coming and that we are going to discuss it. I'd like to discuss them carefully and neatly with your room. We don't have the effect yet. We cannot now have a very fundamental debate on a proposal that is not yet available. That's when we worked it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u94	I don't think that's the issue right now. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u95	Mr Frentrop asked a fair question about the governance of pension funds. He asked whether it could also be involved in the elaboration of the pension agreement. I very much agree with Mr Frentrop that good governance of pension funds, which manage the pension assets, the 1,500 billion, of so many employees, is of the utmost importance. Last year, I reviewed the governance with the evaluation of the Enhanced Governance Act. That was a positive evaluation. When drawing up the pension agreement, I will pay particular attention to this, because I think it is important that it is included in the impact. In doing so, I will also set up a legal transition framework for the transition to the new system, in which it is explicitly considered whether existing governance needs to be strengthened during the transition to the renewed pension system. It certainly has my attention. Very briefly, Mr Van Rooijen, together with GroenLinks, has tabled an own-initiative proposal on the prevention of discounts in the House of Representatives. I had a debate on this last week in the House of Representatives. The initiative proposal has been withdrawn because I made a commitment in the Lower House to come forward with a law towards the end of the year for pension funds with a coverage above 100% but below the minimum required equity of 104.3%. They don't have to cut down. I think I'm going to do that with an arrangement that I'm going to send to the Chambers in the autumn. I think that 100% coverage is an essential condition that the funds must meet, also on the assumption that in future, in the new system, we will also be steering towards 100% coverage. I had two comments on the substance of the initiative proposal. One was that the deadline was structurally extended from five years to seven years, and the second was that there was no reduction under 100%. I also think that the latter is unwise, given the financial position of the funds. That is in response to Mr Van Rooijen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u96	Immediately afterwards, I also raised the question of whether the Minister can promise that there will be no discounts if the level of coverage is below 100%. After all, all pension funds, the big four, now have a coverage rate of 93%. If at the end of the year, at the current low interest rate, this is still the case, it will not be reduced from 104% to 93% at the end of the year, but from 100% to 93%. 7% unconditional for two metal pension funds. These include 2 million people: 1.5 million people in work and 500,000 people who no longer work. Is the Minister prepared to take that discount threat off the table? The Minister himself was there when I asked Prime Minister Rutte the same question. He took a break for a while and thought it was a silly question. I assume the Minister will be able to give a correct answer to this tonight. Moreover, an hour later, the Prime Minister very bravely apologized for that blunt answer which was very short. My question to the Minister is simply: if the level of coverage at the end of the year is below 100%, is the Minister prepared to remove that discount threat? Because with 7% returns and large assets, including those metal pension funds, it is not justified to cut short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u97	Well, I don't think the driver of PME and PMT does. He said in the paper that he doesn't think that's justified. But that's completely out of the question. I said: in the current system, we are steering towards a minimum required equity of 104.3%. In the new system, we're going to control a coverage rate of 100%. I also think it is justified and legitimate to send there. So all funds that have a coverage level above 100% do not have to be cut. All the funds that are underneath must be cut, because they do not have enough cash, not for one year, but for a period of five years. That is indeed the case at the end of the year, on 31 December this year, for three funds, I say by heart. Among these three funds are PME and PMT, the two metal funds, and there is also a smaller fund. For the other funds, this does not apply until 31 December 2020, for example for ABP and PFZW. In recent weeks, over the last two months, the coverage rate has returned to and fro as a result of developments in financial markets. In May, the war between China and Trump had a negative effect on the stock exchanges, and in the last month there is indeed an opposite movement. On the one hand, there is a fall in interest rates and, on the other hand, an increase in stock exchanges. So it remains very difficult to predict what the coverage rate is at the end. But that's 100%, I'll just say "the new anchor" that we're going to send on. So the simple answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u98	How many cubes do you have left, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u99	Three more, but Mr Van Rooijen has so many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u100	I'll get back to you in the second term. So the Minister says no. And he says Mr. Van Popta of the pension fund agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u101	No, not Mr Van Popta.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u102	Okay. I think he did say something else. My point is simply the question of whether it is justified and explainable with these high yields and this absurdly low calculation rate. This is going to happen just before the elections and also applies to the ABP and the Pension Fund for Care & Well-being. So next year it's going to be 9 million people. If that interest rate stays so low and you don't know it with Trump then there is a good chance that the coverage rate will remain below 100%. My question is simply: does the Minister think it is justified, if interest rates remain so low and the level of coverage remains below 100%, for 10 million people simply to drop the drop in discounts from 5% to 8%? It applies to 8 million workers and 2 million pensioners and it plays just before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u103	Elections have nothing to do with it anyway. But I gave the answer: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u104	The answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u106	I'm having a little trouble with the button, but see how it works now, Mr. Chairman. A debutante is and remains a debutante. In the limitedness the master shows himself. That's a good-Dutch expression. I would have thought that today we would talk about the AOW and the delay of the AOW. And I also made it clear in my maiden speech that we are going to talk later about calculating interest, the premium, solidarity and what's more. I therefore hope that we will have the opportunity to speak in depth, not just with Mr Van Rooijen, but with the whole Chamber, about the endless questions that are very interesting and on which I hear the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u107	So you do not have a question, but rather a comment. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u108	I try very briefly to answer a few questions, including those of Mr Van Gurp about the white spots, so young people who are not building up a pension. I very much agree with that. Also in the pension agreement an agreement has been made about a white stains attack plan. This is about young people who do not have a pension scheme or people who work in the temporary employment sector. Agreements have been made with the social partners, because we want to reduce this. We want it to be important for young people to participate in a pension fund in the new system. Mr Van Gurp also drew attention to the differences between funds. Agreed. That's why we have a steering committee. There are four hundred funds and four hundred different compositions: young, old, grey. That's what we're taking with us. Mr Van Gurp also asked about the balance between capital and labour, i.e. between employer and employee. That's a nice question. It is indeed about a balanced balance of interests. This is also taken into account in the elaboration. Now I hesitate to answer all the questions about the Dijsselbloem Committee. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then we're gonna do it extensively later, as far as I'm concerned. Mr Van Rooijen and I have often debated this in the House of Representatives, so I think he is expecting the answers. The only thing I want to say about this is that it is actually very common for an independent committee of parameters to be set up once every five years, which advises on parameters of the pension system, the scenario set and the Ultimate Forward Rates. It's very common. Every five years we do that. So in five years, we'll do it again. Mr Dijsselbloem is now President, but we are also letting independent scientists determine these parameters in order to prevent it becoming a kind of political balance of interest. That is why we have an independent committee. I'd like to hold on to that. I would like to discuss this in detail later in the debate on the pension agreement. Then the block of sustainable employability. I think that's important tonight. Mr Ester asked: do you share the urgency of a much more explicit policy on sustainable employability? Yeah, sure. I also believe that there should really be a change in culture in this area, so that it is about sustainable employability and therefore developing that lifelong. This is also of great importance to the social partners at the central level. I intend to take the lead here, just like I do now with a lifetime of developing. Recently I spoke to the House of Representatives about the STAP budget. So I come here with legislation, both on the RVU levy and on the use of the EUR 800 million, which is 4x200 million euros for sustainable employability, generation pact schemes, healthy AOW age and do your career on time. I very much agree with Mr Ester that it is important to achieve a real breakthrough on this point. Much is being said about this issue, but there are still few actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u109	I'm glad we're back on the subject today. It is crucial that we have sustainable deployment policies in place if we are to increase the AOW rate. But we haven't done that in a very long time. We've been talking about this for ten years. I was once allowed to be a Crown Member of the ESC and I remember that we wrote in thick reports that lifelong learning did not succeed, as it was then called. This sustainable employability does not come off the ground. Organisations and companies are not getting enough there. What is the Minister's ambition now? I can tell he's got one, but why is the policy going to tilt now? What's he pulling out of the hat, which, after ten years, makes it work? What is the secret of Minister Koolmees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u110	If I tell the secret, then... No, that's a silly answer. I note that so far the need, the urgency of employers' and workers' organisations has not been felt and that it is relatively recent in labour market terms, in 2002, that the age of exit was still 60 or 59. I thought Mrs. Oomen said that. It was, in other words, very common not to invest anymore in human capital of workers who were, so to speak, 45 years. It was not customary to think about whether someone healthy could reach the AOW age. By shifting the AOW age and abolishing the pre-pension, you can see that employers, but also trade unions, see that it is important to invest in this. With the 800 million we have made available for those four years, I really want to kick-start this policy together with the social partners, by actually anchoring it at collective agreement level. And that's gonna be complicated, because it's gonna be some kind of pioneers. The same applies for a lifetime of developing: that too is pioneering. But I will come back to this later. Very briefly, Mr Ester and Mr Kox paid attention to the early retirement scheme, which was €19,000. What's the difference in that? That is, of course, a temporary arrangement for the next few years, precisely to enable employers, employees and the public authorities together to get people who are really in trouble to stop working earlier. A conscious choice was made for this €19,000 gross, which is actually the net AOW for single people. In other words, this will make it possible for employees to take part in their supplementary pension. We know from the figures that people who have worked for more than 40 years have quite a significant supplementary pension to bring forward. The combination of the government that pays a little co-pay, the employer that pays a little co-pay and the employee who pays a little co-pay also makes it possible to stop working three years earlier. Mr Kox asked if that was not a cigar from his own box. Well, I think it's wise, because it also maintains the incentives to work for all actors, government, employers and employees. You make customization possible, but the incentives are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u111	I assume so, but my question is whether it is not too theoretical. Under these circumstances, people could leave early, but there are two questions: what people are we talking about? Those who have worked hardest and longest, do they have such a generous supplementary pension as the Minister assumes? I dare to doubt that. Secondly, which employer will be prepared to participate in this? The idea is ingenious, but will the practice for the people we're talking about really work out as much as the minister and I think we have in mind this group as the minister thinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u112	Two answers. The figures show that people who have often started working early and worked for many years have also built up a very substantial supplementary pension. The figures also show that people at the bottom of the income building often have a higher income after retirement than before retirement. The replacement ratio is above 100. In other words, there is also financial space to draw things forward, while retaining income. People don't do that now. Let me give you a concrete example: my father. Because he's worked for almost 50 years, he now has a higher income after retirement than he ever earned when he was working. He's been thinking about pulling the money forward, also because it's not known to a lot of people. With this arrangement, you can make that possible and well known. Secondly, the central employers' organisations VNO-NCW, SMEs-Netherlands and LTO have signed up to this. They are going to make this possible at collective bargaining level in sectors and companies. I also assume that the trade unions and employers are going to negotiate this with each other. That is why we have also frozen the AOW age for two years at 66 years and 4 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u113	That is good, that after his retirement agreement the Minister has great confidence in the social partners that they will come to terms with it. But, as Mr Van Gurp said, if they come out in collective bargaining, that does not mean that one has to be turned in for the other. Hence my question about the cigar from my own box.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u114	I honestly don't understand the question. Cigar from your own box? If the employers are willing to pay an amount of €19.000 gross three years for the AOW age, on the condition that the employee also brings forward part of his pension, while we see that a lot of employees have that possibility and the government doesn't pay off, then we make it possible to make that customization possible with each other. I do not see this as a cigar from my own box, but as an ingenious scheme to make this customization at collective agreement level possible for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u115	Finally. Then we will disagree on that. But collective bargaining is a negotiation in which one is given and the other is offered. That is different than if you had made a robust arrangement that it should be so. That's what's wrong with it. You have it solved elsewhere now, but you could have solved it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u116	I am aware that they are jointly responsible for this. Because I also believe that employers should have a financial incentive to invest in sustainable employability. Free money does not exist, so that it must be financed from tax resources and employers and employees still pay this scheme. Left or right, it has to be paid. I also think that, in line with the polluter pays principle, it is a very good incentive to regulate this at sector level. That's the way it's supposed to be, I think. A question has been asked by Mrs Moonen and Mrs Oomen as to whether there are opportunities for older workers to continue working after retirement and then face age dismissal. If an employer does not want his employee to continue working after the age of AOW, he cannot be forced to do so. That is also part of the current law. There is no right to continue working. We're not going to introduce that either. However, all legal obstacles have been removed that make it impossible to continue working if voluntary. That's really between employer and employee himself. Through legislation, we have made it more attractive to make it possible. I think those were the questions. There are two more questions and I'll close up. Mr Van Strien and Mr Van Gurp asked for the opinion of the Borstlap Committee. A fair question as far as I'm concerned. The Borstlap Committee published a discussion paper last Thursday. An interesting discussion. I received the piece in Haarlem. The note shows that there are many fundamental questions about the future of regulation of work, including taxation, social security and labour law. At the same time, I think it is important to have a broad public debate on this issue. That is why I have set up that committee and she is coming up with that discussion paper. In November, the committee will deliver an opinion. It does not suit me now to respond to it, because I am the chairman of the Borstlap Committee. However, when I received the document, I said that these are very relevant and fundamental questions, about how we are going to regulate our labour market in the future, given that preferences have changed, that there is more and more a heterogeneous labour market and that the employment relationships between employees and employers are no longer unambiguous, because people are wholly or partly more self-employed. That is where we need to adapt our legislation. But as you can see, I'm the client myself, so I'd like to wait and see the advice before I comment on it. The final point is Mr Crone's question on the vision of inter- and intra-generational solidarity. I very much agree with Mr Crone. What I myself find very interesting in the agreements we have made with the social partners is the structural regulation for the heavy-duty professions. The social partners themselves have indicated that they would like to work out the 45-year scheme, because it is in line with intragenerational solidarity, for people who have started working before, have worked for a long time and have low incomes. These subjects are taken into account. I think that this is a right point of attention for the years to come. That is all I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u117	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u118	Can we not agree this evening that we are spending the second term purely and simply on the legislative proposal before us, namely the delay of the AOW and that we are dealing with the other subjects at a different time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u119	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. The bill is on the table. Of course, all Members will limit themselves to doing so as much as possible. That must be done in reasonable terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u120	I am truly stunned at the way in which a new senator wants other colleagues to take the measure. The AOW proposal is, according to the explanatory memorandum of this draft law, part of a much broader agreement. Fortunately, other colleagues have also mentioned other aspects this evening. The Minister has also responded to this. The second period can be very limited, I agree with everyone, but I find this very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u121	At least we signed up for times. Everyone will have to live up to their speaking time. It is up to everyone to set up the speaking time themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u122	I'm not interested in taking anyone's measure at all. I'm far from it. I just wanted to make sure that we were talking about the subject under discussion tonight. I think that is important because I have, in the first instance, explicitly abstained from discussing other things, also because it was so short a day because the Minister was in a hurry. If we had had more time to prepare, then perhaps we would have intervened in a different way. I don't want to take anybody's weight, but I just want to focus on the case that's in front of me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u123	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Your call is clear. I now give the floor to Mr Frentrop for his second term. Go ahead, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u124	Mr. Chairman. I didn't really get two questions answered by the Minister. It's okay to do that some other time. I asked him whether he would like to go to Mr Draghi and put an end to what Mr Hoogervorst calls "incomprehensible political patience" in relation to the ECB, which is destroying the Dutch pension system. If you'd like to promise that for another time, that's fine. Another point you have not touched on is the request to link the capital return tax and the calculation rate used by pension funds. You can do that again some other time. Then there is the AO proposal that is now before us. In the Lower House, the Forum for Democracy was one of the two parties that voted against this bill. That was for reasons of principle, and rightly so. As I said, this is not a nice bill. It is part of a bad series of murmuring at the AOW age. We believe that the retirement age should be fixed. I understand from this discussion that the policy of the government is that we do not say that 65, 66 or 67 is the retirement age, as we started at the time of Mr Drees and Mr Suurhoff. No, the idea of the day is that we estimate your average death date and that you will receive a benefit about 18.3 years before that. We agree that the pension system is the cornerstone of the social system. I don't think this is a nice design. Nevertheless, the Group of the Forum for Democracy here in the First Chamber naturally shares the fundamental criticism expressed in the Second Chamber, but we must also be pragmatic. This bill affects more than a million Dutch born shortly after the introduction of the AOW. Their entitlement to a basic benefit is now four months less distant than the previous cabinet considered necessary. That is a small step in the right direction. We shall therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u125	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations from the Christian Union Group to the President on his appointment. We wish him every success and blessing in this wonderful function. Thank you to the Minister for answering my group's questions. Thank you also to the officials who have been very helpful to him on this long day. To complete the administration, I would also like to congratulate colleagues Van Ballekom, Moonen, Crone and Van Gurp on their maiden speech. Today's debate threatened to go a bit in all directions. I was pleased to note at the end that we went back to the core of this bill. That is what I like to focus on in this second term. My group supports the use of the bill to temporise and relax the increase in the age of AOW, or whatever term you want. This responds to wide-ranging demands in society. It also provides relief for workers with heavy occupations and gives them opportunities for early retirement. We were just talking about that. The bill also brings more balance between work and other life fulfillment. All in all, it costs a lot of money, but the cover plan shows that we can handle this. I am very curious to see how the CPB will pass on the sustainability effect of the overall pension package. In the first period, I made a strong point of the need for effective policies on sustainable employability and a lifetime of developing to keep the elderly healthy and vital. The Minister has a good antenna for that. He's got a lot of money for that, too. It's a good thing he promised to take the lead and that he wants to be dealt with there, too, I suppose. Without a strong sustainable deployment policy, the mission of longer working will simply not succeed, even if we temporalise it. Can the Minister promise that he will monitor progress properly and that he will share the results with us? As has been said, this policy has not been very successful to date. The Minister undertook, also to Mr Moonen, to use the SVB to put a lot of time and effort into communicating with citizens and employees about the how and why of this bill and its consequences for workers who are shortly before their retirement. For everything, we need clarity and rest on the pension front. There's one more question I didn't get an answer to. Does the Minister think that SMEs should be given some extra attention? They often do not have the means and the means to provide the skills to make people retire early in the short term. I can only imagine it means a few things. I would like an answer to that. There are many things that still have to be worked out, but the principles and the structure stand. The pension agreement will result in numerous pension laws. There is a lot of legislative work to be done. There will even be a nice master plan, I understand from the Minister. We look forward to that. Mr President, concluding. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations from this place, too. It looks good. We have to look at it for four years, so it's important that it's all done. As I said in my first term, this bill is not the best we could have imagined. But it's better than what it was. My party likes to stick to its principles, but also looks practically at what a bill for ordinary people delivers or worsens. That is a reason to say: this bill deserves our support despite its limitations, because for a fairly large group of people this means that they will at least have to face a freeze of the AOW age in the next two years. That's really better than nothing, especially since so many people are already worried about whether they're gonna make it. I think that group has been neglected in the discussion. There's too much talk about average people here, but average people don't exist. When I look around my family, almost everyone is part of that other group, for whom 66 years and 4 months is a huge achievement to achieve. Few do. I think we should pay more attention to that. But for those people, this bill is an improvement and that is why my party will vote for it. At the same time, I think it's good to mark that it didn't turn 66. That was also on all those stickers and the signs we carried in all those actions with which colleagues from other left parties were also present. It was a compromise on our part and on their part, but it did not turn 66, but 66 and 4 months. It's only been two years. In the Minister's view, it is a good thing that there is an agreement. At the same time, the trade union movement, with the support of the left, did not bring in what we wanted. That has to be remembered. That gives inspiration for the next battle, to get what we want. As has been said, there is still much work to be done for us in a country ruled by the right and dominated by VNO-NCW. Now it didn't work out. I find it odd that the Minister says so pertinently: no, we are not going to compensate people who are unintentionally harmed by this bill. Actually, I don't think this is possible. I believe that it should always be an attempt to prevent unintended damage, i.e. damage or an income disadvantage that does not fit in with the law. But the minister says, "I'm not gonna do that." I would say: examine it first, or talk about it again with the unions and the employers. If there is nothing to be found or the implementation costs are higher than what it yields, then it ends. But until then, I really think that a legislator is meant to always compensate for unintended damage. I'd like to hear the Minister again about that. I find the argument that that group is actually not so big, that the damage is not that huge and that it is so difficult to carry out a limited answer. But again, we must count our blessings. What was under legislation was very bad for a lot of people. This legislation is better for a lot of people. On balance, my group will vote in favour of this. I don't even think I need to consider that. I think they're going with me, but that's the wording. I think it is a good thing that we can adopt this bill here. Remains that the rest of the pension agreement still has to be translated into legislation. As the Minister said, any future government can amend that legislation. But every Chamber can also do its best to make this legislation better than is currently foreseen. We'll bet on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u130	Mr President, thank you, and first of all congratulations to you. I wish you every success in this responsible task. We'll go through that with you. Mr. Chairman. I have a few brief questions. Mr Van Ballekom can rest assured. Besides, I didn't need his signal. We will indeed have a big debate in the autumn. I didn't miss that. But like other colleagues, I have spoken about and asked about other parts of the overall package. In fact, the freezing of the WAO is only a small step away. Some even say: a mouse step. It will, of course, be mainly about the big pension agreement, with all the means, goals and so on. Let me briefly reply to the following questions. Part of it's a repetition, but I'm suggesting that they be made clear. My question was: is there going to be a separate bill on the softer link between the AOW age and rising life expectancy? In other words, is there a draft law even if the steering committee does not reach an agreement or not at all? In other words, is it an independent bill? It has not escaped me, and you are also well aware, that the trade union movement wants to see a separate draft law on the softer link after the freezing drafts, and that this is decided on here and on the other side. My second question is about collective entry. I've been with Rutte for a while, but I've been with you, Minister. I ask whether risk-free interest rates are the valuation measure for collective entry, if that is to be done. We are not in favour of this, at least not just because it concerns property rights. The Minister does not answer, but says: there is also expected return. In other words, it may well be that it will be on the basis of expected returns, so perhaps 3% and not 1%. That means a great redistribution within that 1,400 billion. The special thing is that the Minister refers to that cost-covering premium, but for that cost-covering premium the expected return is now being abolished. There is therefore only the risk-free interest rate for the liabilities and for the premiums. Then you should not say at the valuation measure: yes, but we also have expected returns. I do not follow that, but I will assess the Minister further later. Then there is Article 83; that is, of course, a difficult point. That also has to do with collective boarding. The current Pension Act states that each individual, groups of participants, also, active and no longer active, has an individual right of objection if rights are transferred. My question to the Minister was whether he wanted to maintain that article in principle. He said it'll all be dealt with later. I understand that he does not want to answer that now, but I would like to point out to him that we have asked that question and that we are not getting a clear answer to it now. And I'm very concerned about that. Finally, the Dijsselbloem Commission. I understand that Minister says that such a parameter committee happens every five years, that we now have one and we have to wait. But you are aware that the trade union movement, as well as Asscher in the Lower House, I have the Acts with me here, but I am not going to quote them, said that the current advice of Dijsselbloem is about the existing contract. That's two more years. He asked whether the Minister was prepared to ask for a new opinion from the Dijsselbloem Commission, or a committee other than the parameter committee, for the calculation rate to be used in a new system. Mr. Van Ballekom, Asscher asked in the House of Representatives. I suppose I can ask that here, too. Then the bill itself. We think this is a step in the right direction. That is why we will support this bill. Finally. On the discounts we will come back later in the year. Today, of all people, is the graph in De Financieele Dagblad that pensioners with a pension of €20,000 or a little more, 12% in purchasing power have fallen from 2009 to 2017. There will then be a further decline in purchasing power in 2018, 2019 and 2020 until the elections, because last year, this year and next year at least there will be no indexation of the four major funds, not to mention discounts. Does the Minister have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u132	Mr. Chairman, congratulations again. I would like to thank the Minister for the eloquence with which he always treats us, as members of the Senate, when he is defending a bill. Since I did, I'd like to report the pain to him first. As a CDA group here in this House, we continue to struggle to maintain that risk-free market interest rates are the only method of achieving buffers. I said it. That's for protocol. I asked the Minister a question about the tax treatment of pensions. He said he'd come back to that in the second term. The answer he gave in the first period is that he is going to arrange it for everyone who has already put the pension forward and is in trouble because of taxation through Article 18d of the payroll tax law. But there are also people who have already made agreements, where the pension has not yet entered into, but who cannot go back either. My request is that we try to take care of that as well. Then we talked about the road map and the steering committee which is being set up in the short term. In any case, it will be given the space to put the target above the resources and can therefore go to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u133	I'm not that quick to interrupt, so I'm actually half a step late. I am listening very carefully to Mrs Oomen, also just now. I heard her say that the pain of the CDA is in taking the risk-free interest rate as the only measure. Do I understand correctly that the CDA therefore calls for, or at least is open to, other variants and other foundations to be investigated? That corresponds to my first-term request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u134	Yes. I remember that my colleague Niek Jan van Kesteren made the same remark last year in the General Financial Reviews. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u135	Of course, I don't remember that, but I'm glad it is. So I understand that if we ask a few more questions about risk-free calculation rates and looking at alternative studies in an international context, looking at whether we can do this more conveniently, we will find a partner in the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u136	Yes, Mr. Van Gurp, that's what I said in the first term. There are experts and supervisors who have a different opinion on this matter than the opinion of both DNB and the minister at the moment. Since the Minister does not like this subject, I have just begun to do so and I have said that we still want to establish that we have other thoughts on the protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u137	Thank you very much. It might take some getting used to for me. But I'm very happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u138	You're welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u139	In the second term, I mentioned the word Mrs Oomen mentioned, but I did not mention it for a moment. I welcome the clarity given by Mrs Oomen. Can it therefore confirm that, as far as its group is concerned, risk-free interest rates can be called into question in a softer contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u140	I said what I said in the first term. So that's affirmative. I therefore refer once again to the comments that have also been made about the collective contract, even by our group's financial spokesman, Mr Van Kesteren. Mr. Chairman. Where was I? I would have stayed on the road map. I've already said something about the steering committee. I hope that the Minister will appoint very sensible people, who will indeed be given the opportunity to set the goal first. The goal is for the means to be used. The Minister has made an exhaustive list. I would say that it could be a little more extensive if those sensible people in his steering group had an opinion on that. The Minister did not respond to the comments of the Social Insurance Bank on the First Protocol of the ECHR. My question has not been answered. I asked: do you now think that changing the explanatory statement covers all the risks? Mr. Chairman. We have talked extensively about the employability, i.e. the sustainable employability of Mr Ester and others. We agree that it must be done. But the question is: when we have settled this sustainable employability, should we ensure that people who can and want to work are not allowed to do so anymore? We have talked all day about people who can no longer work, but those who can and want to work, even if they are over 65 years old, should now be dismissed. I have already made this request in the first place, or the Minister can look again at whether we should make it that way. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say to Mr Van Gurp that, in the debate on the Labour Market Act, we discussed in detail the issue of collective insurance against irreversible risks in the event of incapacity for work. I would like to ask the Minister if there is any news on that front. Mr. Chairman. Those were, I think, the comments I had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u141	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Moonen, Mr Crone and Mr Van Gurp, whom I had not yet congratulated because they spoke after me, and of course also to the President. Wish strength and wisdom with your work and above all God's blessing. We all need them, by the way. You can do a beautiful first act. According to the schedule, we'll meet at 4:45 a.m. tonight. Anything you do to close the meeting early can only help us. It's gonna be on the consulate state. Thank you, of course, for the answers given by the Minister to the questions raised in the first term. It's always nice when he knows how to put a moment of learning in it. He did it again. I think it became completely silent when the Minister informed us that even Drees has already hinted at the link to increasing life expectancy. It got so quiet that I didn't think anyone here knew, but the minister knew. Interesting to hear. I can still go into all the parts. I'm not. At least we shared the debate on the 8% of the 200,000 people who have a pay-related benefit. Of course, any case can be poignant, but the Minister's explanation shows that this is a relatively perceptible problem, of which we cannot estimate how many of those 16,000 people will actually be affected. They may have a wage-related benefit under the AOW. Then it doesn't play. They can respond to that in time. That is what the Minister has indeed pointed out in relation to the requirement of public awareness. In my first term I asked if there was any customization to deliver. So that turns out to be very complicated. The only question I could ask the Minister is that perhaps there are people there who are concerned about what advice he is giving now in the case of really distressing cases that might be there with those 16,000. I have one final comment to make. There will be a road map or a railway book or whatever, so that we can assess a little in what way we will deal with the rest of the legislative proposals. That's very convenient. I can assure you that my group will support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u143	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then I give the floor to Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u144	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to thank everyone who congratulated me on my maiden speech. Of course I would like to take this opportunity to say that I enjoyed the speeches made by Mr Frentrop, Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Crone and Mr Van Gurp. I would also like to wish the new President of the First Chamber good luck. Mr. Chairman. We had a good debate tonight, I think. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to say that we believe that the present agreement in principle can make the pension system more personal and robust, while maintaining a form of solidarity and commitment to the fund. This is a very important and sound framework, which also strikes us as balanced. We are pleased that the legislative proposal before us today and this evening will create a system that will make it possible for everyone to achieve a healthy pension. This is important for those involved. That is important for the families and those who are dealing with people who are now struggling to make it to that end. I also enjoyed noticing that the minister was really passionate when he talked about sustainable employability. In today's debate, he also indicated that he would personally commit himself to this and that he would remain involved in the elaboration of Lifelong Learning. We have also talked about matters contained in the agreement in principle. I didn't, because I've really limited myself to the bill that's in front of me. However, I am extremely interested in the impact that we are going to get, and in the roadmap. Very important in this will be the valuation framework that is to be established, the balanced distribution between generations. I ask the Minister to report to the steering committee that, when we talk about such issues, it is quite a matter of how it is going to work out for the different types of pension funds we have in the Netherlands. Because we have very different funds. We have occupational pension funds. They have often been mentioned this evening in particular. But we also have funds for companies. Large companies, which still have their own pension funds. We also have occupational pension funds, for specific professions. I think it is important, when we get frameworks and effects, that we always realize how they work out for the totally different types of funds that the country knows. I shall now turn to the answers to the questions. I am pleased that the Minister indicated that, when it comes to the Social Insurance Bank, we now have a community. A kind of AOW community I understood, where there are no less than 850,000 people, where things are tested before actually being communicated to this group in letters. That is what I thought was an adequate answer to my question on this subject. I also found the answer on the Tax Administration clear. I would like to come back to one question. Mrs Oomen of the CDA has just spoken about this. I found the answer when it comes to longer working a little less clear, because on the one hand the Minister indicated: we removed the legal obstacles from the government. That's right, I recognize that, too. In the following sentence, he said: we have also made it more attractive through legislation. I find removing barriers something other than making something really attractive. I am therefore curious to hear Mrs Oomen also ask about how the government is actually going to make it attractive in the future for people who are already in office, who are healthy and vital and who are eager to continue working, but who are not able to do it. How is that made possible? Especially in view of the poignant shortages that we are going to have in the labour market and within all those professions that I mentioned this morning in my first term. In my opinion, this is a very important social issue. A government should also consider the great social interests of today. Finally, the Group very much appreciates the overall agreement in principle. I will advise the D66 Group to agree to this specific legislative proposal that is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u145	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van Gurp on his maiden speech. I have congratulated you on your appointment as President, but I also congratulate you on the first stage of this debate. I am not very satisfied because we have finished earlier, but because we have had a good debate. Rather a long debate that is good, than too short and not good. I would also like to thank the Minister for his generous reply. It has even brought me a number of new points. First of all, the good presentation on the intergenerational side of this. I didn't hear enough of that. Of course, young people are now going to retire a few months earlier, by releasing this one-to-one link, in the event of an increase in life expectancy by a year. So this also has the advantage for the young people that they get that balance. That is what the Minister has now explained, namely that the balance between the number of years of work and the number of years of retirement remains the same and you do not have to work one-on-one year of life expectancy. I think that balance needs to be explained better, because otherwise this just seems like a party for, literally, my generation, while I can now explain to my children as well: for you too, pension building will be different and the AOW age will start earlier than without Koolmees, I'll say. So that's important, because then two generations will make a difference. The elderly turn in because they work longer. It's gonna stay that way. The kids get something in return. Moreover, we continue to pay premium and high-level taxes. I'll tell everyone who thinks there's another way. We really go to a ratio of five, six people for one retired to about two, and maybe less. If we set that retirement age much lower, it would be even less. So young people will continue to pay a lot for the pension and the AOW, even after these measures. Apart from that, young people pay a great deal of care solidarity which benefits older people to a large extent, and rightly so. The Minister complains about purchasing power development. He's right about that, and that's why I'm going into it a little bit further. Mr Van Rooijen is right on that point every time. This purchasing power development remains vulnerable. If you keep those macro images to yourself, Minister, will you comment on them? The share of profits in national income, the company's share of national income, has increased from 4% of national income to 12% in recent decades. From that, they turn less and less to the families. Families can be shareholders. And they also give less and less to taxes, because we are constantly reducing corporate tax and other taxes. I'm not even talking about evasion. The pie point that goes to business is getting bigger and bigger. And they are less and less contributing a fair share to public spending and also not a fair share to their own employees. Fortunately, the Prime Minister has felt the same way for two weeks. I hope the Minister will support this, too. That has to do with this debate, because he is now going to negotiate, including with the social partners. In the further part of the pension contract, let it not only be about the calculation rate, because then we might be rich and the young people will pay it again later. Let us talk about a fair share of the employers, the employees and the government. I do not need to repeat the sum of Coen Teulings and the Study Group on Budgets, because these are the facts that have already been established. It is not the Study Group on Budgets that makes political choices, so I would like to hear the views of the Minister and the Cabinet. The scenarios will have to make it clear that we have become so rich. But if you don't spend the money where it is and, by the way, pay off public debt far beyond what any government agreement has predicted, we're gonna put ourselves in a poor position. I'd rather divide the wealth we have than count ourselves poor. Again, these are very realistic figures. You can find them at the CPB and the Rabobank; everyone publishes them. I think that's a good point to close up. It is a good message for the Minister to discuss this issue with the social partners now, otherwise we will have higher premiums. They are already too high and employers do not want to pay them and employees do not want to pay them. Purchasing power is already under pressure and wages are not rising. Then there's only one laughing third, and that's the higher profit share of the companies. Finally, there are of course always groups that are getting a little less now than they had expected. However, I would like to point out that a wage-related benefit is not a right to a certain level of income, but an insurance for unemployment. If you retire early or get AOW, you're no longer unemployed. Officials who need to be dismissed earlier now, I am still mayor and a number of officials will have to leave us earlier because their retirement age is starting earlier. Surely we are not going to supplement financially, because they originally thought they would be civil servants for another three months? Apart from the technical aspects, because I am not so sensitive to that, although I must, it is certainly important. You're entitled to a wage-related income because you don't have a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u147	A helping hand for the minister is always welcome, although the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u148	This is just my own point of view. Wow, no argument trick, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u149	No, but I find it remarkable because the problem is also recognised by the Minister. He's just saying he can't fix it because it's too complicated. You say there's no problem. That's where you're wrong. There is a problem, because these people cannot anticipate it and therefore they cannot compensate for that loss. The minister says if I could have done it, I would have, but I can't. That's why I'm warning them on time right now and I hope they'll do something with that. I find it remarkable that the spokesman for the Labour Party says that there is no problem. I think everyone in the room agreed that there was a problem. The question is where to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u150	I think you should agree with me. These are employee insurance and those are wage-related as a safety net for unemployment. It's not a safety net for when you're retired. Apart from receiving a wage-related benefit, these people may still be able to receive a supplement after retirement and so on. It's much more complicated than it looks. It may be a problem for individuals, but when we started raising age, there were other disadvantaged groups, also on an individual basis, that don't fit into the system. I'd rather assume the system because otherwise the welfare state will be a mess. I don't want to make it bigger than it is, but I think you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u151	No, I don't want to make it bigger than it is. I am simply saying to the spokesman of the Labour Party that the problem is recognized by the government and was raised in the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. It is only a small group and it is a relatively small damage. I've earned that if you make legislation that unintentionally harms, you as a legislator first have a duty to see if you can solve it. That's another thing than saying: I'm looking at the systematics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u152	Yeah, but people are also entitled to pay-related benefits. That stays completely intact with what I'm saying. But after a wage-related benefit give an extended supplement to the AOW? Would you like to add a supplement to the AOW? Why not for other people who have a disadvantage? I would like to end by thanking the Minister once again. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u153	Thank you, Mr Crone. Finally, Mr Van Gurp has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd already had the whole list of congratulations, so I don't have to anymore. I have only two comments for the second term, both a little bit on the underlying essential points. One comment concerns labour market policy. The Minister said: you refer to Borstlap, very important, I need to know them and of course I cannot respond to them. I'm not asking you to. I think it is perfectly right that the committee should call for a broad debate on society in an interim report. We have to respect that. I would like to confirm that I think I will get it from you, but I would like it to be explicit that working towards fundamental breakthroughs in the labour market may be much more substantial than the whole debate we are having here. I'm in it now, so I'd like to talk about pensions in the future. It's going well, we have to, and it's really complicated. But of course I would much rather we organize a labour market together that doesn't make it all so terribly spastic whether you come to the finish line with 65, 66, 67, 68, 69 or 70 a little healthy and fit, that there aren't too many winners and losers, that you won't be broken and broken by the time it ends and that we're going for it. Then that other debate will also become a lot less cramped. I'd like the commitment... I can see you nodding; for the report, that's already helping. I'm sure you'll tell me once again that I'm absolutely right. All right. The second point concerns the risk-free interest rate. I was pleased with the little debate we had with Mrs Oomen and Mr Van Rooijen about it. I can understand why you said in the first term: boys, we don't have to start over again, I've explained all that ten times. That's right. You'll explain that you're a little upset, too. You also explain that if you do it the way you do it, what comes out will come out. I get that. I can still follow all that. But at the same time, you know as well as I do that if that interest rate stays zero, we will continue to do so with the funding of this system, and we will remain at the risk-free interest rate, we will not index anything. So we have a problem with each other. I only asked you to confirm that; a confirmation is enough if you are willing to go with us on a search between the Scylla and the Charybdis. Eat the Scylla of it all now, the six-headed monster. You know him: he eats everything and then you're eaten bald. You say, of course, that you should not do all that, because that is to prey on the future. I fully agree with that. That's not our plea at all. And the Charybdis, a monster. If you're gonna hang on the other side, you're just gonna get dragged to the bottom of the sea and then you're done talking. That's a little risky if we don't do something. If you manage to find a way out of this by going to a different basis, that would be a major result of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Let me see if the Minister has the opportunity to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber. That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I got the last answer by text message at the drop, so I'm ready for the answer. I will follow the order of the spokesmen in the second term. Thank you again for the speedy treatment, for the fact that your Chamber was able to deal with all this so quickly. Mr Frentrop asked about monetary policy. I can talk about that for hours. I'd rather do that at another time. The only thing I want to say is two things. One is that interest rates have been falling since 1983 and that only recently ECB policy has given an extra boost to this. That's one. Two is not only the ECB, but all the world's central banks, whether it be the Bank of Japan, the Bank of England or the Federal Reserve, have all pursued a broad monetary policy over the past ten years with very low interest rates, including the central bank of Denmark and Switzerland. I think it is a global phenomenon, not so much a European phenomenon and not just the ECB. It also has to do with global savings surpluses due to ageing. The fact that the whole Western world is ageing also means that a lot is being spared. There is an incredibly large savings surplus and this leads to lower interest rates. That, I say to Mr Van Gurp, does indeed create new challenges for funded systems. I would like to make a bridge to a question from Mrs Oomen and Mr Van Gurp, which is what we are doing differently in the pension agreement. At the moment there are two locks on the door in the current system. One lock on the door is risk-free interest rates, prudent and careful. The other lock is in the buffers. In the current system, we have 130% coverage before fully indexing. We agreed with each other that we should have one such slot, and I called it the prudent slot, but Mrs Van Strien said that I should not use that word again. We are going to agree that these buffers are no longer necessary. This means that, in the short term, returns that are achieved, not interest rates, not interest rates, but returns that are actually achieved, can be paid to the participants, both to pensioners and to the workers. That does indeed mean a different balance between them. There is also a risk, because if you take off one of these cautions, there is less safety in the system. That can be quite justified, but the other side of the coin is that you have a better chance of shortening faster. I think we should be honest with each other. That's part of the deal. I think it is justified, also given the fact that, if you were to remain in the current system, you would not or not fully index for the next ten, fifteen, perhaps twenty years, despite returns that are being achieved. That is part of the debate. I'd like to do that more extensively with you when we have time, a whole day or so. I'd love to. The fact that interest rates have been falling since 1983 is simply a phenomenon. We see that everywhere around us and we will have to relate to it. That is the reality. The second question in Mr Frentrop's contribution was on the capital efficiency levy, on box 3. First of all, free savings above a certain threshold are taxed with the capital efficiency levy, which has, moreover, been stepped up. Up to €100,000 it is a lower rate than above the million. Above the million, it is 5.6%, which corresponds approximately to the efficiency parameters of the Dijsselbloem Commission. They're at 5.7% or 5.8%, I say out of my head. In that sense, they are indeed comparable. At the same time, the Secretary of State for Finance announced last week that he would like to look for a system that fits in with reality, so really achieved return. In a way, we are more in agreement than it seems. But thank you for supporting the bill. I really appreciate that. Mr Ester said that a total impact should be presented in the CPB transfer. That's right, that happens in November, when the feasibility figures are updated. That includes the total pension part and then we also have a total overview of the care in the coming years. I think that is a good thing to make political choices for the next period. Mr Ester also asked about sustainable employability. Yes, you can hold me to that. I think that's very important. I can reassure him, because in the Lower House a motion of D66 was adopted, which asked me to monitor the sustainability of employability and the effects. We're going to measure the impact of the 800 million we're investing in kickstart sustainable employability. Indeed, I forgot about the issue of SMEs. We discussed this at the negotiating tables with the social partners. Certainly, SME-Netherlands asked attention for the smaller employers, who say: we cannot shape it at individual level, so help us a little. Part of the agreements we made in the pension agreement itself is that there may be arrangements at sectoral level on the employers' side to solve the problems. That is why the pension agreement states the phrase "solving financial bottlenecks for early retirement schemes'. That's what that's about. I very much agree with Mr Ester that it is not easily soluble for every SME entrepreneur. That's what we're paying attention to. Mr Kox said that the average man does not exist. I agree with him immediately. I would also like to thank him for his support for the legislative proposal. The last point that Mr Crone and also Mrs Oomen were asking for attention to is the question of possible compensation arrangements. I have tried to indicate that the cabinet does not consider it necessary, given the limited adverse effect of this step. We have also applied the transitional period of six months. In this context, Mrs Oomen had asked another question about Protocol 1 to the ECHR. Now I'm gonna read it to you. Indeed, it is true that a less rapid increase in the age of AOW may be detrimental to certain people. These disadvantages should be assessed in the light of Article 1 of the ECHR Protocol. The limitation of individual property rights must be proportionate in relation to the purpose of the measure. Due to the six-month transitional period offered, the Cabinet considers the measure proportionate in relation to the first protocol of the ECHR. That six-month transitional period is also the reason for the haste with this bill. Mr Schalk and Mr Crone also rightly said that this is a diffuse effect. For people who have a wage-related benefit under an employee scheme and whose income could potentially fall back, it is unclear whether they simply have a supplementary pension. Probably. Otherwise, they wouldn't have built up workers' rights. All in all, that is the balance we have made, also given the feasibility and given this review to the ECHR. It is very tempting to discuss with Mr Van Rooijen both the Rts, the risk-free interest rate structure and collective boarding. Let's do that at a good time, if we're not in the dance debate either. Very often, Mr Van Rooijen's interruptions lead to a question as a dance. If this happens, it happens. I think it is careful to work it out properly, then to explain it to you, and then to have the debate on the choices that are in it. Because let me be honest: there are a lot of bears on the road. It is very complex and complex legislation, they are complex situations. Mrs Moonen was right when she said that there are many different pension funds and different schemes, DB schemes and DC schemes. But let's work it out carefully and then have the debate with each other, instead of pushing bears on the road first, which I then have to take off again. So I come up with a proposal, which we will then discuss carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u157	Yes, I sometimes ask a question like that, but I object to it being said that I usually do. I reported that the real contract failed at the time because it involved collective entry. That's common knowledge. The national attorney has given a state secret opinion on this, which only two people have read, namely the negotiator of the VNO and that of the FNV. No one can know that. We do not know whether this collective entry was therefore contrary to that right of ownership and to the rights of the ECHR, and now also to the Court of Luxembourg. My point is that it can't just be that if there's a new contract...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u158	...if.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u159	Yeah, no. Mr. Chairman. If the cabinet decides that there will be a new contract and that one has to go to a new contract, that is also agreed upon, then the consequence is that you have to appreciate how to transfer it. That's not a like-dan question. We're getting in. So the question is, how? My question is whether the Minister can confirm that this will be done at the rate of calculation, and not, for example, at the expected rate of return; I will just mention something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u160	Without wanting to be faint: in your question was twice "if, then." I have indicated that I consider your question to be correct. I believe that this must indeed be done carefully, neatly and rationally balanced, and this is a very complex measure of valuation. I agree. But let's look at the whole picture. In parts of this transition are pluses and minuses, for young people, for the elderly. It is precisely the total package that gives the opportunity to compensate, for example, or to make other choices. But if you highlight one part of it every time, you can have a whole war over one of those parts, and indeed create a generational conflict about it. I would also like to mention the abolition of the average systematism. It also has consequences for different groups of participants in a pension fund. My generation has the most disadvantage of that, so the 40s and the fifties. Let us try to give an overall picture that is rationally balanced, with the various instruments available, and then to discuss it. Let's try to do that, instead of pushing bears on the road every time I have to push them off; that's what I call it. Let's talk it through nicely, carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u161	Mr. Van Rooijen, last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u162	I'm glad you brought in that average grant, the 60 billion. I didn't bring him in. There are a few big bears on the road, but I too cannot anticipate what will eventually happen in the Cabinet and both Chambers. I agree. I would just like to point out here that there are such major problems, both collective entry and, for example, the average premium, that it is important that we in the Chamber also feel that certain picket posts are commonplace and are not simply sidelined. That's the warning I'm giving. This isn't a like-dan question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u163	I agree with you, Mr. Van Rooijen. In fact, we have talked about it many times, even in the House of Representatives. I understand that very well. But let us discuss it with each other if there is a proposal and not now that there is no proposal. This is also the subject of work by the Steering Committee. I would like to make a comment about discounts in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen. It is true that pensioners have surrendered 12% of their purchasing power in recent years. The same applies to workers. We sometimes forget that, but of course the workers are also not indexed. That's completely out of the question. Mrs Oomen actually made a comment about the pain. I have just tried to respond to this and to the debate on the double locks in the system to Mr Van Gurp. I think you should also look at the overall system, so the buffers in relation to the prudential and risk-free space. We are going to talk about this in detail. Mrs Oomen had asked another question about the starting date of the pension, not only on current pensions, but also on pensions to be introduced in the near future. People can decide when they want to retire. That could be at the AOW age, but it doesn't have to be. As long as no pension has been paid, any agreements made on, for example, the high-low construction, i.e. the first phase high and the second phase low, can be adjusted. There's room to change that appointment before retirement. Then there is Mrs Oomen's debate, as well as Mrs Moonen's debate on the retirement age, i.e. automatic dismissal at retirement age. Employers do not have a legal obligation to allow employees to continue working after the AOW age. A number of years ago, this was agreed upon at the explicit request of employers. However, we have removed a number of tax obstacles that actually made it unattractive to work longer. That's the point of attraction. It is therefore still an individual choice between an employer and an employee to make such an appointment with each other, not a duty. Employers have also indicated that they want a natural moment when a contract of employment ends. At the same time, because of the tight labour market, we see that more and more people who can do it continue to work longer. That's what Mrs Moonen said. In my own ministry, too, I see people working longer on a voluntary basis after retirement, because they just like it. This is, of course, very positive, especially in view of the current shortage of labour. This is an individual agreement between an individual employer and an individual employee who must make this possible. Mrs Oomen also had a question about the aov-zzp. The disability insurance for employees is indeed included in the pension agreement. We ask the social partners and thezzp organisations to come up with an opinion at the beginning of 2020 so that we can put forward a cabinet proposal before the summer of next year and speed up its work. I think it is nice when I ask social partners andzzp organisations to make a proposal to this effect. I don't want to stir in too much myself. However, I have already taken note of statements made by the Association of Insurers that they are not going to carry out the compulsory duty. That's more like what I read. It is not my own view, I say. I think it is nice that I leave that to the social partners and thezzp organisations. Mr. Schalk, thank you for your support. So the road map is indeed coming. From Mrs Moonen I have now answered all the questions. She was right to say that there are a lot of different pension funds. On the website of the pension federation, the various funds, green and grey funds, have already been calculated what the abolition of the average means, also for the scheme versus the DB scheme and entrepreneurial pension funds. That shows that the heterogeneity is very large. It's very interesting to have a look at a Sunday night. I said one thing about those letters. Those 850,000 people get a letter. These are the people who will be eligible for a less rapid increase in the age of AOW over the next four years. They will receive a letter that will be checked by the pre-AOW community. Mr Crone was right to talk about intergenerationality. In addition to the AOW, I would like to stress that in the pension agreement, the departure of the average system for young people is also very positive and is also in line with a fairer pension system, especially for young people, because the subsidy is withdrawn. I also think this is important in the context of intergenerational solidarity. It raises the new question of how to compensate, but we will discuss it later. When it comes to purchasing power and labour income ratio (AIQ), so the burden side: I refer to page 29 of the CEP 2019. That happened yesterday in a debate in the House of Representatives, and that is why I remember this. It contains the distribution of national cookies, the growth of national income, by households, businesses and the government. If you take into account pension and care contributions that can be counted towards households, you can see that the picture is a little more diffuse than Mr Crone sketches. Even if you look at the labour income ratio, you will see a fairly stable picture from 2005, around 75%. In recent years, that quote has been rising a little bit. I think that the reality is even more diffuse than Mr Crone has outlined in his speech, even if you look at what is in the coalition agreement on vpb and ib. In the coalition agreement, we have chosen to reduce the burden of 5.2 billion, especially for people and 1.2 billion for companies. Yes, it is true that the vpb is being reduced, but there is a fundamental broadening, precisely in the vpb. You'll have to tell that story. But I'm gonna be brief, otherwise we're gonna go through with this all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u164	I'll be brief too, but entrapment must always be rewarded. I was only on page 15, where it was indeed about spending and purchasing power shortages. It's about a fair share. But Prime Minister Rutte is on my side: entrepreneurs must pay a fair share, both for public expenditure, roads and education and for purchasing power. I would say: do not take over the position of Hans de Boer, who says it is the cabinet's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u165	I need to think about that, about this question. Yesterday I also received this question in another debate in the Lower House. About what the Prime Minister said at a VVD-festival, he was accountable in Question Time in the House of Representatives. As far as I am concerned, we have agreed in the government agreement on 5.2 billion relief for people and 1.2 billion relief for businesses. We have done this precisely for the middle-incomes and the workers, who we want to give extra support to. But this comes back to Prinsjesdag and to the General Political Reviews, which I am already looking forward to. I'm afraid I'm not allowed to say anything there, but I'm there. For the sake of clarity, I agree with Mr Van Gurp on labour market policy. Recently, in this Chamber, we discussed the Labour Market Act in balance, where there is the difference between fixed and flexible contracts. Last week I sent a package ofzzp-measures to the Lower House, in which it mainly concerns payment of wages in the event of illness and the risks for employers when offering a fixed contract. I've already mentioned Life Long Development, where we're going to develop the STEP budget. I agree with Mr Van Gurp that this is extremely important to ensure that people have fair opportunities in the labour market, which may reduce the pressure on retirement age. So yes, and in that context too, I look forward to the opinion of the Borstlap Committee on the long-term fundamental experiences. Later we will discuss the risk-free interest rate. Mr. Chairman. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u166	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-10.u167	Then I will come to the conclusion of this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill, unless one of the Members needs a suspension. If not, we will vote on this bill.
