ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert for his questions to the Foreign Minister, whom I would also like to welcome, about the Dutchman who has been detained in an unknown place in Cairo for more than a week. I call Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Pieter Bas has been stuck in Egypt for almost two weeks and no one has been able to get in touch with him. He was arrested for recording with a drone from the rooftop terrace of his hotel. That is forbidden, even in Egypt. He was arrested, but a few days later he appeared on the state television where he was accused of espionage. Then he disappeared again and no one saw him or heard from him afterwards. My first question to the Minister is whether it is now known where this person is staying. How's the State Department involved? When has the Foreign Office been informed and is there any evidence that there is indeed espionage? Is there any contact with the family? Is consular and legal assistance provided? I would also like to talk to the Minister about the letter that several NGOs, Amnesty International, Oxfam, Novib, the COC, Lawyers for Lawyers, and Hivos wrote about the human rights situation in Egypt. They are extremely concerned about the freedom of the media that is no longer there, about journalists being detained, about lhbti's suffering and suffering from life, about sudden forced disappearances because you are suddenly being arrested. The situation in prisons is also appalling. That's how I can keep going. Does the Minister recognise this situation in Egypt and what is his response to this letter? Thirdly, I would like to talk to the Minister about the travel advice of Foreign Affairs, which is on the website. If you take that, it says in the first heading that the security situation in Egypt has improved in recent years. Then you get some clues, but nowhere is there anything about how the authorities in Egypt can behave if you commit a relatively small, whether intentional or not. Shouldn't the Dutch know that this can happen in Egypt? Is the Minister prepared to change the travel advice? He modified the travel advice on 26 September, but that was only about there being demonstrations and there are a lot of police and army people on the streets, but shouldn't this also be changed in the area of security, so it can suddenly be picked up, as happened with a lot of people, and therefore also Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert asks a number of questions about the situation in Egypt, first of all about the message in the Egyptian media that a Dutch man would have been arrested after recording with a drone. When we received these messages, we contacted both Egypt and The Hague. I did that myself because I was in New York where my Egyptian colleague Shrukri was. Through all these channels, we have asked to be informed of the place of residence so that we can offer consular assistance. At the moment we have not yet been informed of that place of residence, but if we know the place of residence and the person concerned appreciates it, he will of course receive consular assistance. It must always be indicated by the person concerned that he appreciates it. So we have made every effort to find out where he is, and we will continue to do so. This indeed involves contact with his immediate surroundings. Mr Van Helvert referred to a letter from NGOs, but I assume he can imagine that if he mentions a letter during Question Time, I would like to read it, but I do not know it by heart. It is about a number of worrying signals which do seem familiar to me, but it seems to me purely that Mr Van Helvert is handing me that letter and that I will come back to that more comprehensively. The last point concerns travel advice. This is regularly adapted. Mr Van Helvert also said that this has happened recently. I also believe that the travel advice explicitly warns that making recordings near demonstrations or strategic sites, at least strategically located by the Egyptian authority, presents risks. So I think this point is mentioned. In the light of current developments, we continue to consider whether the travel advice should be changed further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is good to hear that the Minister immediately took personal action when he was in New York and addressed his colleague. Unfortunately, this has not yet led us to know where this Dutchman is now. My question would be what follow-up actions the Ministry is going to take. The family has already expressed its appreciation for consular and legal assistance. Can it be granted? Are there any indications that there may indeed be espionage, or is that not at all the case yet? I'd like to hand over the letter. It is good to hear that the Minister acknowledges the great concerns about deteriorating human rights there. I'd like to take a quick look at the travel advice. The opening is: the matter has improved. While the NGOs report and you also indicate in your letter of office that a lot of things have deteriorated. I would like to ask if the Minister is prepared to look at the travel advice and to adapt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	We continue to press along the lines I indicated in contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also with police and security forces in Cairo, to find out the whereabouts and then offer consular assistance. Legal assistance is never in the Foreign Affairs package. This must be regulated by people themselves, as in the Netherlands. I'll be happy to respond to the letter from the NGOs. As I indicated, all the information, including this letter, is always taken into account to see if there is any reason to change the travel advice. I believe that making recordings is specifically mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	I understood that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working with lawyers who can assist inmates abroad. Previously on "PrisonLAW..." The name of its successor doesn't come to mind. Can that be handed to you right away? I understand very well that it is mentioned that recording is dangerous, but apart from that, we see that more and more people are being caught just like that. NGOs say that very clearly, not only in the letter I have before me, but also in a broader context. They also made that known to the Ministry. In the last few weeks, over 2,000 people have just been arrested for doing something state-of-the-art. This Dutchman is one of them. Isn't that a reason to put in the front of the travel advice that this is very dangerous, that the authorities act in this way, rather than the current opening sentence: the situation in Egypt has improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	Again, I'm very interested in the letter. From the summary I recognized much of the image that also exists in me of Egypt. I can only respond well to the letter and to the question whether it should lead to an adjustment of the travel advice once I have seen the letter myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	You will receive that letter from Mr Van Helvert. There will be a written response to that. Then you'll be fine, Mr. Van Helvert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	This surprises me a little, because last week, as the Foreign Affairs Committee, we asked the Minister for a reply to this letter. I am surprised that the Minister, knowing that this oral question would be put, does not yet have any knowledge of the letter. But we're waiting for that written response. My question is in line with Mr Van Helvert's last point. President Al-Sisi harshly suppresses his population, which is dissatisfied and increasingly oppressed in social, economic and political rights. Over 2,000 peaceful demonstrators have been arrested in recent weeks and days for peacefully expressing their displeasure. My question to the Minister is: is the Minister prepared to urge the Egyptian authorities to release all these peaceful demonstrators immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	As I pointed out, I spoke to the Egyptian minister last week, including the specific arrest which Mr Van Helvert referred to, and also, although I did not have this letter yet, the reports I had already received on the human rights situation in Egypt, the demonstration of last week and the arrests. In the discussion last week, I stressed that the Netherlands considers it very important for people to be able to exercise their right to freedom of expression and freedom of demonstration, and that we think it really wrong for people to be detained for this. Keeping people in custody for a long time without even an accusation is, unfortunately, something that happens regularly in Egypt is, as far as we are concerned, really wrong. That issue has been explicitly raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	Following on from Mrs Karabulut's question, I would like to thank Mr Blok for his answer, but I would also like to ask him whether he has explicitly advocated the release of peaceful demonstrators. Of course, that is the real political question before us, in addition to expressing the concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	I said last week: "You should not take those people prisoner, in short, release them." That was a conversation on my initiative. It was not the case that the Egyptian minister asked me to address him on human rights. I think we are in complete agreement on this. That action has been taken and, of course, we very much hope that the situation in Egypt will improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you.
