ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld amending various education laws in order to prevent pupils of parents who have not paid a voluntary contribution from being excluded from activities. I would like to welcome the proposers. They are supported in box K by Petra Schijvenaars, SP policy officer, and Davey Meelker, policy officer of the GroenLinks Group. You're very welcome. You are often the people who have done the real work; I can say that from experience. So it's a good thing you're sitting there, too. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The initial response by the proposers will be scheduled at a later date, in consultation with the proposers. Then there is also the second term of the Chamber and the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul. It will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are talking tonight about a very, very important subject, a subject that has been on the Chamber's agenda regularly since the beginning of this century, I say, at the beginning of this millennium. For example, my illustrious predecessor Sharon Dijksma already asked the government in 2001 to come up with a code of conduct for the voluntary parental contribution in consultation with educational organisations. In February 2017, Joyce Vermue and Jasper van Dijk followed with a request to maximise the voluntary parental contribution. That motion was also passed. In December of that year, SP, GroenLinks and my group tabled a motion calling on us to oblige schools to emphasise that the parental contribution is actually voluntary. The Minister dissuaded that motion and concluded that the current laws and regulations are satisfactory. However, the media continues to report distressing cases: children who are not allowed to go on school trips, children who are not welcome at Christmas dinner, and reports about parental contributions that run in the hundreds or sometimes even thousands of euros. Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that I would like to thank the proposers, Peter Kwint and Lisa Westerveld, for and warmly congratulate them on this initiative law. Every child and every young person in the school age must be able to be sure of full participation in school activities, regardless of the thickness of his parents' wallet. This initiative proposal therefore deserves our full support in our efforts to promote equal opportunities in education. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions. First of all, I would like to ask the proposers and the Minister to look into the expected effects of the proposal on segregation in our education, a point which was also raised in the State of Education. The proposers draw from the most recent School Cost Monitor that 3% of parents in primary and secondary education have had an impact on school choice. What does this mean for the growing segregation in education? And does the Minister recognise that the level of parental contribution encourages a certain selection, as the proposers argue? Does the Minister see controlling school costs as an instrument to counter this growing segregation? I would also like to ask the Minister to look into the enforcement of this law. How will the inspection monitor compliance? The Vermue/Jasper van Dijk motion adopted asked the government, in consultation with all relevant actors in primary and secondary education, to limit the voluntary parental contribution. However, the execution of the motion has been left to an investigation and the decision of the cabinet not to proceed to a maximation, as the initiators also note. I would like to ask the Minister how he is now looking at Maximising the voluntary parental contribution. Does the Minister agree with us that amounts of hundreds or even thousands of euros are at odds with our commitment to equality of opportunity in education? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of homework guidance and tutoring. This autumn, the Minister announced a follow-up to the research on shadow education, including the motivations of parents to opt for shadow education. The Minister points out that quality of education, or rather the lack of it, can be a motive for parents to choose shadow education. In this context, will the Minister include the relationship with the shortage of teachers in the announced research? This is a relationship that the thousands of respondents in a recently conducted study of CNV Education and the AD do indeed explain. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with a big thumb up for colleagues Kwint and Westerveld and also for their support. I know from experience how much work there is going to be in an initiative law, and the result may be. Congratulations. You guys look good in Box-K!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I call Mr Futselaar, who will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the SP and GroenLinks bill on the exclusion of pupils from non-compulsory school activities if their parents have not paid the voluntary parental contribution. It's a very mouthful and it doesn't sound good, but it's a very important law. As far as the SP is concerned, the word "finally" is in place here. After all, despite statements by the Chamber and ministers, every school year we hear the stories about children who are not allowed to participate in Christmas dinner or who are left behind at school when the rest of the class goes on school trips. This isn't new. Mrs van den Hul has already gone quite into history and I can go a step further. Already in 1997 I was in school myself and I am really not that young.My predecessor Remi Poppe called me about the exclusion that the parental contribution could bring with it in practice. He said: the level of the parental contribution may vary many hundreds of guilders, and schools do not always emphasise the voluntary nature of the contribution. The currency has changed, but unfortunately the complaint has not yet been fully resolved. Even then, there was a relationship with sometimes inadequate government contributions to schools, and in practice you saw strange things as using the contributions for supplementing test paper or for remodeling. Well, it's not like nothing has changed or improved since then, the dark nineties. More and more schools fulfil the obligation to emphasise the voluntary nature of the contribution in the Guide. And a report on our own contribution to testing paper has really not been achieved by our group for some time now. However, exclusion and abuse of voluntary parental contributions has not yet been eliminated. We see situations where children are left behind while the rest of the class goes to an amusement park or celebrates Christmas. That doesn't seem to be good for the emotional development of a child. Fortunately, the vast majority of schools agree with us and most political parties do, because the Chamber previously decided to set up a maximum parent's contribution, thanks to my colleague Mr Van Dijk. Unfortunately, that motion was not carried out. However, we see increasing support for not leaving children at school anymore when the rest of the class goes out. We hope that the support there is traditionally in this Chamber, but also in society, will also express itself in broad support for the legislative proposal. The discussion about the parental contribution is very often about the difference between parents who do not want to pay and parents who cannot pay. As far as the SP is concerned, that is actually the wrong question. First of all, the foundational education in the Netherlands is free of charge. A voluntary contribution may be requested, but it is no more than that: a question. Secondly, you want children to suffer as little as possible from choices made by their parents. A child should not be used as some kind of leverage, with exclusion as a punishment towards parents to draw the wallet. Moreover, you should not want schools to be placed in the position of having to take some kind of income test, on the basis of receipts or tax returns, to see whether parents are allowed to waive the contribution. That's bureaucratic and it's a violation of privacy. Nor is this bill intended for all those schools that are already ensuring that all children are allowed to participate. There are a lot of them, and I only admire them. This bill is aimed at schools where things are not going well. How would you feel when you're a kid, if you're left behind in school while the rest of the class goes on a school trip? I don't want anyone to feel that way, and I'm not known for my empathy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what his position is on this bill, in other words, on the principle behind this bill and its practice. It is a legislative proposal that does nothing more than give all children an equal chance and does not impose any additional restrictions on schools that are already doing well. Now I hear critics thinking: yes, soon those parents will not pay the parental contribution, when they can, and then our children can't go anywhere anymore; so there are limitations in practice. First of all, I would like to say: let us also assume a little confidence in the parents in the Netherlands, rather than throwing them away. Most parents are absolutely willing to contribute, as we already see in practice, even in schools that choose not to exclude any child. Does that mean that there is no risk that, for example, the payment by parents will be reduced? No, because the pressure agent of exclusion is indeed falling out. But in that case, you shouldn't choose exclusion. And even in the worst case scenario, my group prefers to go swimming with the whole class in the pool on the corner instead of leaving two children behind while the rest goes to the amusement park. I grew up on only school trips to the dough beds and the Wadden Sea, and it didn't make me any worse, except that I have a weird preference for the dough beds and the Wadden Sea. The Minister himself has already expressed his opposition to the exclusion of children by schools if parents do not pay the voluntary parental contribution. For example, he went together with the PO Council, the VO Council, LAKS and Parents & Education to make clear and targeted agreements with the aim of leading, I quote, to a situation in which all schools comply with the law. It's a wonderful sentence, when you think about making agreements to make people comply with the law, but let's go. The PO Council, the VO Council and employers have set these agreements in codes of conduct. The Minister also said that if this is not a success, I will amend the law. So that raises questions. How are we doing on this? How do the minister say schools are doing? Isn't it time to change that law? And when that time comes, isn't it fantastic that there's a bill here to do that? I'm so glad Mr. Kwint and Mrs. Westerveld did that work. Mr. Chairman. The VO-Council also believes that there should be an exception for additional education programmes, such as bilingual education or technasia. Additional funding would then be necessary. About extra funding, the VO-Council simply has a point, but that is not the reality at the moment. The minister was quite clear about extra education programmes that parents have to pay for. This leads to division in education and that is unacceptable, he wrote in the letter of 13 March. The Minister would also arrange that pupils should never be excluded from such programmes if parents do not pay their parental contribution. Will the Minister now use this bill to deal with this in practice? He has spoken good words about it, but I always prefer good legislation to good speeches. Does the Minister share the same view on excluding pupils from school trips and other activities outside the compulsory curriculum? In secondary schools we see a trend of travel abroad, which also have to be paid through the parental contribution. Last week, AD reported a school organizing a trip to China. Parents of students who go with them must pay €999. What does the Minister think of this kind of expensive school trips? I also ask the proposers what they think of this kind of expensive school trips. I dare say that this is not something that any family can afford and that it will not automatically be possible for every student to go along with it. What does the proposers say is doing with the equality of opportunity for pupils in such a school? What are the consequences of this bill for this kind of travel? Is it impossible in practice or theory? Do the authors and the Minister share the view of the SP that these kinds of trips seem to be often used as a sign to lure wealthy parents to a school, so let's see, we are the school on the China trip? Mr. Chairman. As I indicated at the beginning, we are pleased that we are dealing with this bill. As far as our group is concerned, successive Cabinets should and should have been able to adapt the law themselves. The fact that these proposers are doing this is good in our view, because we are done with the current situation. You won't believe it, but even the SP is tired of hotlines in this area. Every few years we have one and the reports on this kind of thing flow back in. We're a little done here. Let's get this over with. A lot of schools handle it well. For these schools, nothing changes, but as far as we are concerned, we simply need to speed up the treatment and implementation of this law for the rest of the schools. For children are not to be excluded; all children must be included. And as far as we're concerned, from next year's school. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Then I give the floor to Mr Bertema, who will speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u7	And now for the relative sound, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators Kwint and Westerveld and their collaborators for the work they have put into this proposal. We think it's a nice proposal, absolutely. It cannot be the case that children of parents who are often simply unable to pay the parental contribution are excluded from participating in school trips and other activities. Kids depend on their parents. But we do see hooks and eyes, which, to my taste, are not highlighted enough, especially in the previous contribution. The 2001 report of the Education Council, which was carried out at the request of the former executives, Minister Hermans van de VVD and the Secretary of State Adelmund and Van der Ploeg of the PvdA, found that in many cases there was no voluntary activity at all. The report also stated that questions of dispensation were perceived as stigmatizing by parents. This is still experienced today, because they have to submit a request to the school leadership. Well, I can imagine, but I've often participated in situations like that and, mwah, we shouldn't exaggerate that either, I guess. But it's still an undesirable situation. This subject has been regularly on the agenda over the years, as we have heard, but without sufficient success. Last year, the Minister wrote in a letter that the non-payment of the parental contribution should not have any consequences for participation in the regular programme; quite rightly so. This was a response to the motion of Members Vermue and Jasper van Dijk from 2017. Mrs Van den Hul mentioned that. This motion asked the Minister to examine the possibilities of a legal ceiling on parental contributions. We voted against it then, because a legal ceiling does not really solve anything for parents who simply cannot afford any kind of parental contribution. The Minister concluded that the current laws and regulations provide sufficient opportunities and that it was mainly a question of informing parents properly. However, the initiators rightly argue that despite the lengthy discussion on this subject, children are still excluded from extracurricular activities and that all the discussions in the field to put an end to this or to address it in such a way that inconvenience associated with it is reduced, as much as possible, has not been achieved. That's too bad. We are dealing here with a tough and intricate dossier. The fact that the legal anchoring of the non-payment of the parental contribution should not lead to the exclusion of an apprentice from an activity raises, however sympathetic, a question for us. I do not think that is the intention, not even of the initiators. If they don't have that intention, how do they think to prevent this unwillingness from leading to a lot more parents deciding to leave it? In other words, "If they don't pay, why should I do so for my child or children if it doesn't lead to consequences?" Mr Futselaar may have more confidence in man than we do, but I think we should take that into account. However, the initiators argue that in the most rigorous case, schools will be faced with disappointing revenues and that they will have to adjust their offer. We'll see how rigorous that turns out, but I predict it might be disappointing. My impression is that people, including parents, are becoming more and more calculating. That may not be fun, but it's a fact of life we have to deal with. Anyway, there will be a discrepancy, a colourless mediocrity. The possibilities for schools to distinguish themselves in this area from other schools will be limited. Is that such an attractive perspective? There are schools that distinguish themselves with their wonderful journey to Rome. Such initiatives will certainly suffer. In my opinion, excessive expensive travels to New York or China, or skiing holidays, should be very critically reviewed, because they add nothing. It is far too much to talk about it as an acquired right, as schools do, which I do not like. It's about trips that really add something. If it is not the intention of the initiators, would it not be better to separate foreign trips from the parental contribution and organise them separately? That's how I used to do it myself, and that's how it still happens. It gets a lot of cold out of the sky. Or, in that case, would the initiators consider new government intervention to make that impossible? I'd like to comment on that, because I'm not entirely comfortable with that. After all, we are dealing here with the two most dogmatic socialist parties in this house. GroenLinks and the Socialist Party are prepared to go far, also in this proposal of law. In this context, I am surprised that they are proposing a restriction on the law on participation. They want to consider whether or not students are allowed to participate in extracurricular activities in failing to pay the parental contribution no longer invest in the parent-student education of the mr, but arrange it centrally, nationally. That is a restriction of participation imposed by the greatest friends of participation; apart from D66, I say very emphatically to Mr Van Meenen. I'd like a response from the petitioners. Mr. Chairman. This bill also provides that schools should not exclude pupils from tutoring, exam training and other such activities organised under the responsibility of the school if parents are unable or unwilling to pay the parental contribution. That is in line with the opinion of the Council of State. Exam training falls within the category of activities that schools give to pupils under current regulations without asking for parental contributions, and rightly so. This is also one of the guiding principles of the inspection in enforcing the rules on school fees. That is why the Council of State also says that the law does not need to be changed, because it is already there. The initiators ignore this advice, because they rightly claim that a significant proportion of paid tutoring, homework guidance, exam training and other forms of extra support are organised by their own school. If a school offers this, it should make this possible for all students. We wholeheartedly support that part. Finally, Mr President. You will hear that we still have reservations about the side effects of this bill. tutoring and exam training should be accessible to all students, without exception. This proposal also makes the voluntary parental contribution truly voluntary. That's profit. But when it comes to the real tastemakers that a school offers and with which it can distinguish itself from the rest, I foresee a distortion of identity and the freedom for schools to profile themselves. That fits in with a certain political thinking and a world view that is not ours, at least. It reminds me too much of the adage that once existed in the workers' paradise Deutsche Demokratische Republik: everyone is entitled to a car and you can choose what you want, as long as it is a Trabant and as long as it is grey. However, I would like a response from the Socialist authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I call Mr Renkema, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u9	Time for dogmatic socialism, I'd almost say. Mr. Chairman. At first I had a very different perspective. I looked at the bill and I thought: this is actually a way to offer children opportunities. Then I came out to the Jewish pedagogue Lea Dasberg. I think some of the spokesmen here know her. She said in 1980, so a long time ago: "There is no pedagogy other than the pedagogy of hope." She meant that education, but also education, should be based on a forward-looking pedagogy. A pedagogy that gives children perspective and assumes growth, opportunities. She also meant that we do not have to accept the existing one. Mr. Chairman. Recently, I spoke to a young woman who had grown up in a family in Drenthe. During her childhood and her childhood, that family had had to deal with major financial problems. That was a family in poverty. This has enormous consequences for children, because everything costs money: new shoes, new clothes, daily meals. Being a member of a sports club, for a lot of kids very normal, wasn't in it for her. She told me that as an 8- or 9-year-old girl she was no longer invited to birthday parties of peers. She had appeared a few times without a gift and therefore at some point she was no longer invited. For example, poverty among children and young people leads to social exclusion. According to the most recent data from the Central Bureau of Statistics, which are from 2018 at the moment almost 300,000 children live in poverty in the Netherlands. They are therefore at risk of social exclusion: no sport, fewer friends and perhaps not on that school trip. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an important bill, which regulates that non-payment of the parental contribution by parents or carers should never lead to exclusion of children in activities organised by the school, such as the Sinterklaas party, an excursion or a foreign trip. The school is sometimes called the second educational environment, after the family, which is then the first educational environment. If, because of family circumstances, there is no money for certain activities and a child misses such opportunities, I think that the school should, from the pedagogy of the hope I have just mentioned, realize opportunities for that child instead of contributing again to exclusion. It has already been said that the bill does not fall from the sky. As early as 2001, a motion by the PvdA, which was then adopted, asked for a code of conduct for this voluntary parental contribution in the foundation education system. In recent years, this voluntary parental contribution has returned regularly as a subject of discussion in this Chamber. There are directives, consultation structures and agreements, but unfortunately we now have to note that it has all been too little. Eighteen years later, it still happens: children are excluded. For example, because their parents are unable to pay the voluntary parental contribution, they are no longer allowed on an excursion or are not allowed to participate in any other activity. That's not often in the paper: a kid who can't go on a school trip. Fortunately, it doesn't happen every day and a lot of schools know how to prevent it themselves. However, we have to take the signals seriously and realize that it happens to those children who are already the most vulnerable and already have so little. In the most recent school cost monitor we read that 12% of parents in primary education indicate that their school excludes students if the parental contribution is not met. In secondary education, even 18% of parents indicate this. These percentages do not say everything, because this really is a self-reporting by parents. But GroenLinks is simply true: every child that is excluded is one too many. The fact that it is happening to too many children is evident not only from that school cost monitor, but also from the many messages we have received, by mail or by post. For example, we received a letter from a school that said literally: if the school fees are not met, your son or daughter cannot participate in the activities mentioned in this letter. Underneath it were even Sinterklaas and Christmas. We also received emails from parents who indicated that they received an invoice and then a reminder, while that voluntary parental contribution simply cannot be paid by them. These are real stories, for these parents, but especially for those kids who aren't allowed to participate. That is why it is important that this law should be introduced. We also know that the choice of school depends partly on the amount parents have to pay, especially in the case of larger amounts, as is the case in some p.o. schools, and especially in the case of the more special offer in secondary education. I am thinking of profiles such as the technasium, tto-education and schools that do a lot of internationalisation. We do not agree with the fact that when choosing a vo-school the student in the 8th grade and his or her parents must already take into account the amount of the parental contribution. A family with financial problems will really not quickly opt for a tto-profile, bilingual education, if the annual contribution is standard €500. For example, as far as we are concerned, the parental contribution leads to further segregation in education. I am also on the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, so I know very well that there are a lot of schemes for people in poverty, for supporting families who are not broad. But not all municipalities have such a good arrangement. People who are entitled to this do not always appeal to it either. Sometimes they don't know how to find these arrangements. Sometimes it's too complicated. Sometimes the trees stop seeing the forest. We also know the Leergeld Foundation, which is doing an incredibly good job. But we can't expect this foundation to always help all the children. Their financial resources also have limits. I think it is clear that we support this law wholeheartedly from the point of view of providing opportunities for pupils. I speak from the group; my colleague has tabled this law. I do have a number of questions, both to the proposers and to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education in his advisory role. The first three questions are for both. They won't be surprising if you've listened to what I just brought forward. The first is: why don't we abolish the whole parental contribution? The problem is not only exclusion, but also the stories of great pressure from schools, letters of formal notice, collection agencies, to collect this contribution. So it is not always seen as voluntary. The collection is also another administrative burden for the schools. Much more important: isn't it true that the foundational education in the Netherlands would just be free? My second question is: is the distinction between educational activities and non-educational activities not arbitrary? A curriculum is a set of activities aimed at learning students. This includes a project or excursion. My third question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u10	Before you come to that third question, there is an interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u11	The last time I checked, Mr Renkema was still in the same group as the author, Mrs Westerveld. And now he's actually coming up with a far-reaching proposal. I'm a little surprised. What does that say about this law? Is he actually saying that if it had been GroenLinks, the initiative law would have said: cancel the entire parental contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u12	This law regulates something rather limited for those schools that currently do not know how to solve it for children who cannot participate in certain activities. It is said that this should never be a reason for exclusion. What I am curious about is the answer to the more fundamental question of abolishing the parental contribution. This question is addressed to my colleague from GroenLinks, but also to the colleague from the SP and the minister. Again, the foundational education in the Netherlands would be free. Has the abolition been a consideration and how does the Minister view it at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u13	I understand that, but my question is more: how does GroenLinks view that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u14	I can say here on behalf of GroenLinks that we would choose to abolish the voluntary parental contribution. This law is, once again, a very small amendment and we wholeheartedly support it, because it has been tabled by one of the members of our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr Beertema, do you have a question about this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u16	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Because I don't quite understand it. I agree with colleague Van Meenen. I sense that, in some sort of East German regime, we are finally deciding to throw these Trabanters out completely, because it only leads to misery. Isn't this going to lead to a massive flattening, a massive tie-up? An initiative law is being tabled, and we are in favour of it on a number of points and we are not in favour of it on a number of points. We're going to hear from the proposers in their first term of office what they have to say about that. But, yeah, now I'm freaking out. The ultimate goal of GroenLinks as a caterpillar-never-satisfied is apparently: we really want to get rid of it completely. If this initiative law is the prelude to finally turning it upside down, then there are some very grumpy colleagues here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u17	However, I do not fully understand this question from the PVV. After all, it is said that without the voluntary parental contribution, which must be quite high in the Netherlands, schools would not be able to profile themselves in relation to each other. If Mr Beertema has listened carefully, he has heard that my second question was: is the distinction between educational activities and non-educational activities arbitrary? After all, a curriculum and all the activities that students undertake, tot, technasium, schools that go abroad are aimed at that learning of students. That should include such an excursion or a project. The question I ask both applicants, but certainly also the Minister, is: should you not let go of that distinction between education and non-education? I realize that that would mean that schools would be given more space to use the resources they receive from funding on all kinds of activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u18	But especially those extracurricular activities, whether they are very expensive or very good to pay, give schools the opportunity to build up a profile or a profile, even outwardly and on open days to their parents. Often it's about nice traditions in schools and you just want to turn your back on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u19	Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u20	Again, I'm getting very suspicious right now. I now see this initiative law as a step towards your even more socialist approach of: completely sheet rolling, completely equalising. At least it's making me really cranky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u21	Too bad I'm not gonna take that grumpy away tonight. As far as I am concerned, the idea, the link and the causality that is being created here, namely 'we must ask parents for a voluntary parental contribution so that schools can profile themselves', is a very strange reasoning. I know a lot of schools that opt for tto and I know a lot of technasia and I know that they want to put that concept down, but just paid for it with public money and without asking for a separate contribution from parents. That's the proposal I'm making!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr Rog also has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u23	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It is of course nice that Mr Renkema is now trying to draw the debate even further and actually tries to shoot among the pigeons of his own group mate by abolishing the entire parent contribution. But that does lead me to the question of how all these profile schools, such as bilingual education, LOOT, DAMU and the technasia, should then finance their education. It may be that some left-wing parties think there's a money tree somewhere, but it's not there! We have to do it with the money there is. With parents' voluntary parental contribution, at least the users would pay. Who will be billed by Mr. Renkema of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u24	When you look back in history, you see that the voluntary parental contribution started with a very small amount. In primary education, for example, this involved a couple of tens for a number of activities. On average, the funding for a student in primary education in the Netherlands may be €5,000/€5,500 per pupil per year. If you ask for €50 voluntary parental contribution to parents, that is 1%. That's negligible when you're talking about funding. But then! In secondary education, the government pays about €7,000. If you ask for a parent contribution of €700, because you are a tto-school and do all kinds of activities, a school becomes 10% dependent on the contribution of parents. We think that is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u25	Mr Renkema may find it all undesirable, but this debate is followed by all schools of bilingual education, technasia and LOOT schools. These people, both the school directories, the teachers who work there and the parents, are terrified that this law will not allow their educational concepts to exist. Simply because we can't do it anymore. Mr. Renkema is making it worse, because he doesn't want any more parenting. The result is that these educational concepts, this pluralism of educational provision, are simply being overturned. Is that what the Green Left Group wants? If this isn't the case, I want to know where the bill is placed. Will it be paid for by those who do not participate in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u26	Two reactions, because it is also two questions that Mr Rog is asking here. I also read the letters from the Tto schools. I've also spoken to people in Tto-education. I don't think they need to worry about this law at all. After all, the proposal before us does not say: let us abolish the voluntary parental contribution. It is simply said that when parents cannot afford it, that should not be a reason not to participate in the activities. This can in itself be very reassuring to the technasia and tto-schools. The second part of your question concerns the account. Where will it be placed? I have just asked why we in the Netherlands are making a distinction between educational activities and non-educational activities in funding. In secondary education, we see an enormous wealth of all kinds of concepts. There are more and more of them, and that is what we encourage, because we agree with that. We find it strange that the bill should be placed with the parents, so that children who can't go along with it can be excluded. We want to put an end to this. My shortest possible answer is: that should be financed from public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u27	There is now a risk of a major debate on the abolition of the voluntary parental contribution, which is not in any way part of this legislative proposal. I would like to discourage that. Here is a very reasonable, nuanced proposal to abolish the errors in the current system, the unfairness that almost everyone in this Chamber says is undesirable, as you are used to from nuanced middle parties such as GroenLinks and SP. I would like to say this to Mr Beertema, with his own amusing socialist comparisons of the GDR: in the Netherlands, schools are distinguished by beliefs or beliefs of a different way of life, schools are distinguished by educational systems, schools are distinguished by figures and averages that students obtain. Isn't it a bit sad as the best way that schools have to distinguish themselves, with everything you can choose from in the Netherlands, are the school trips? This is not so much socialist equality, but rather the poverty of market forces in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u28	No, Mr Renkema, Mr Bertema had just spoken and you could have interfered with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u29	Does Mr Renkema agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u30	No, no. I give Mr Beertema the opportunity to respond to this. It is at the heart of the debate, so I think it can be done at some point, but you should actually do that to Mr Beertema. Mr Bertema may respond to this and I shall then give the floor to Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u31	Very briefly, because of course I didn't mean it like that. I just said that that school trip to Rome for a lot of schools and a lot of students is a huge adventure. It also adds something. This is also part of education, cultural education and so on. I think it's a little silly to take that off now as "not true." It also plays a role in the identification and profiling of such a school. Mr. Futselaar really agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr Futselaar is not going to respond to that anymore. Mr Renkema has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u33	I'm not gonna respond to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u34	No, he's moving on to his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u35	It now seems as if GroenLinks wants something different from what is being proposed here. That is absolutely not the case. I am curious as to how the proposers made this assessment. They actually opt for a very modest minimal variant, while there is much more going on around that parent contribution. I'm curious how they look at that. I am also certainly curious about the Minister's response to this. My next questions will hopefully reassure both the coalition parties and the right-wing opposition. I hope they can share the following questions and also be curious about the answers that will come from the proposers and the Minister. Those are the following questions. It's been a while: what are the limits you can ask? We have seen a few examples that, added to a four-year VMBO school career, six years VWO or eight years of primary education, which is a voluntary parent's contribution of more than €1,000 or even more than thousands of euros. Is that gonna scare you? Does that lead to odds? I would like a response from both the authors, but also from the Minister. Then for the initiators the following question. How do the initiators view the criticism of schools offering bilingual or top-level sports education or of technasia? Are they afraid that this bill will make that diversity disappear? I'm curious about the answer to that question. Finally, a question intended only for the Minister in his advisory role. What exactly are the consequences for schools at the moment if they spend money from the funding on educational activities, on teaching, on other activities such as a project or excursion? That's my last question. I'm rounding up. Fortunately, this bill means virtually nothing to most children and also virtually nothing to most schools. There it goes well and there a suitable solution is found for the parents who cannot afford it. Compliments for all the schools that can do that. But it is important for children and young people who are excluded from activities or, for example, avoid a certain choice of schools for fear of very high costs that this law should be introduced. That too is the pedagogy of hope. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u36	I see an interruption by Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u37	I would like to ask one short question. My interruption to Mr Renkema led me to conclude that he says that GroenLinks prefers not to make a parent's contribution and that it is simply out of the general budget. I know GroenLinks as an ardent defender of the loan system. That was because they said: we do not want the baker's son to pay for the surgeon's daughter. Isn't it true that, when you bring dance and bilingual education to bear on the general budget, the student at VMBO, at least his parents, will eventually pay for the bilingual Cambridge English gymnasium?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u38	I don't think we've had a loan system for decades. I think it's a big difference whether you're talking about higher education or foundational education. Let it be very clear: I believe that it is a public provision in school age that we all pay out of taxpayers' money, just like we do in hospitals and highways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mr Renkema has said something about the other committee he is on, Social Affairs, and the arrangements that are possible for parents who have difficulties in paying such contributions. A solution is given for those few schools where things are not going well. I find it particularly special that in very similar schools with similar neighborhoods one director does arrange it at school and the other does not. Couldn't it be a solution to look at which schools the director can't manage and talk to that director? It is strange that one director does take care of the children, has the educational capacity to take those children, and the other director does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u40	You are currently speaking to a Member of Parliament who, in an earlier life, was one of those directors who could manage it. At the same time, I think very strongly that if we regulate this in a law, we will ensure that no pupil is excluded in the Netherlands. I think that the professional conversation between school leaders and administrators about how they deal with this is certainly worthwhile, but, as the proposers have said, we have had conversations, covenants and all kinds of agreements with each other for a long time and children are still being excluded. That's why we're filing this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u41	Finally, Mr Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u42	That's what my direction is for. It is stated that this law has no effect on that very large number of schools where it runs well. At the moment when we could manage to arrange it in the other schools by addressing the directors who can't do it, this law is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u43	It turns out it didn't have any effect. Especially for the small group of children involved, we want to ensure this legally. If that had been resolved, if it were no longer the case because directors who could not, would have been addressed or otherwise formulated their policies, we would not be here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u44	Mr Futselaar for a question to Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u45	I would like to ask Mr Renkema the following. Doesn't he think that if you did what Mr Heerema suggested, you would take stock of all those schools and then act on them and so on, you would build up exactly the bureaucracy that we have been trying to pull out of education in recent years? Isn't a simple law a much nicer solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u46	I don't think it has to be more bureaucratic. I just don't think it's gonna work, because otherwise it would have been solved by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u47	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I call Mr Van Meenen, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, it is a pity that Mr Renkema is not allowed to speak more often about education. Nothing to the detriment of Mrs Westerveld, but it is always nice to hear more people with an educational heart and experience here. I did not mean to get him into any trouble with my interruption, but that did not actually happen. Mr. Chairman. The exclusion of children because their parents do not pay the voluntary parental contribution is as bad as it sounds. In the seven years I have been in the Chamber, there are examples of children who are not allowed to go on the school trip or to be excluded from the Christmas celebration. According to the explanation given by the initiators, this has been going on for two decades. Speaking of my own experience, I think it's much longer. Each time soft measures have been chosen: to engage in conversation, to have tea with the sector, to make arrangements with the PO Council and the VO Council, codes of conduct, but nothing makes a difference. That's it. That's it. That's it. Then change the law to stop this once and for all. I would therefore like to congratulate Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld and their staff, who are so keen on the importance of these children, that they have even taken the difficult path of an initiative law. D66 believes that all children deserve the best education. And D66 considers it very important that education remains accessible to all children. Mr. Chairman. A stone's throw away here in The Hague, the Hague School Association thus sits with sch en double e öf which is among other things the board of the school Het Open Venster. The parent contribution at that school is €9,600 per year, as it says in my text. I read with Mr Rog that it might be €9,700. Yeah, inflation and all that. Now I seriously wonder what happens when you go to that school and the voluntary parental contribution doesn't pay. My estimate is that The Open Window will then turn out to be a closed door.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u49	This law allows schools to apply for a voluntary parental contribution, but no longer excludes children if the parents do not pay. The parents' wallet should not therefore lead to social exclusion at school. Does this law provide sufficient assurance that children are not also refused entry into a school as parents to not pay the parental contribution? I look forward to the reply of the authors, but also to the Minister's reply. D66 finds it striking that, despite the consent of the mr with the level of voluntary parental contribution, which has increased in recent years. I would just like to stress once again in this Chamber: parents and students, you have something to say about this! Mr. Chairman. In secondary education there is another aspect: extracurricular programmes are increasingly being offered with a required parental contribution, such as bilingual education, technasia and art classes. The cost of these extras is rapidly rising. Bilingual education, for example, costs around €400 per pupil per year. A lot of parents can't afford this. Mr Renkema has already mentioned this, and I believe that Mr Futselaar has done the same. This naturally leads to self-selection at the gate. In addition, these courses are usually offered on HAVO and VWO, which means that they are not accessible to all pupils either. D66 sees programs that explicitly exclude students whose parents cannot afford it as an instigator of inequality of opportunity, yes, chairman, of division. But it is also clear that in order to make this kind of offer possible, a parent's contribution is needed at some point. It simply doesn't work out from the lumpsum, so do schools themselves. By banning exclusion as parents do not pay, such programmes could disappear because there is simply not enough financial resources. If it were now that all these programmes had a proven added value for the development of the pupils, it would certainly be a gap and a lack of education if they disappeared. But that's not always the case. Too often these programmes are used in the struggle for the student, in order to improve the school's competitiveness and not to help the student in learning performance, motivation or integration with the labour market, according to the Education Inspectorate in the State of Education. D66 states that when a school draws up an additional education programme, it does so in the interests of the student. This includes intrinsically that it must also be accessible to every student. The best education for all pupils is a tough condition and everyone should be given the opportunity to have a richly-spoken education programme. There are also good examples. For example, top sports schools reduce segregation and are of good quality. Do the promoters have further examples of publicly accessible additional programmes with a voluntary parental contribution, e.g. secondary schools that can still provide bilingual education? Are there any examples where the solidarity between parents remains high and parents find it more worthwhile to keep the offer for everyone? How do the initiators intend to maintain the best practices of additional programmes that have proven their contribution to students and prevent this segregation? A possible side effect is that parents who can afford it will rather opt for private education, which means that we achieve an opposite effect. Are the initiators willing to keep an eye on these issues through an evaluation article in the law? Is it true that schools are not allowed to use the parental contribution for additional staff? I'm asking the Minister to do the same. How often does this occur and how is it maintained? Mr. Chairman. Should this law lead to a disruption of the offer, extra money is needed in the lumpsum to give every student access to good, beautiful extras such as bilingual education, creative courses or extra homework guidance. D66 hopes with the initiators that they will find the opponents of this law, if they are already there, by their side to draw the wallet. That must be done: if we all think it is very important and we want equality of opportunity, then perhaps we should draw the utmost consequence from it. I believe that Mr Renkema is on my side. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Children should not be excluded or excluded from Dutch education. That is the only point this evening, and that is the most important point. I would like to thank you very much and wish the authors the best of luck with the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerema, who will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mr. Chairman. In fact, I cannot believe that there are school directors in the Netherlands who would be so misguided as to forbid children from going to a school party or Christmas breakfast, or deny those children access to the final graduation gala. I cannot imagine that there are directors punishing children for the fact that the parental contribution cannot be paid. Because of course every child should be able to go to the Christmas breakfast, go on a school trip to Duinrell, and you're just really wrong when you deny a successful student the exam gala. But it happens. I have said it before: my mailbox does not flow from notifications about these abuses. Actually, we don't know how many kids this is about. I was curious to see if the authors would have a better idea of the extent of this problem after the written round we had. I understand that agreements have been made with the domes to prevent children from being literally outplayed at these important moments, educationally important moments, but that these agreements have little effect. That's what worries me. Because if the sector does not pick it up on its own, then we need to take action. It's too bad that's necessary. Mr. Chairman. For this part, for these activities I understand and follow the proposal of the proposers. 'Cause every kid has a right to go on that school trip, celebrate the Christmas breakfast or dance to his or her final graduation gala. But how right I think it is for these parts within school, I am so reluctant with, for example, my own contribution to profiles. I have a number of questions for the authors. Bilingual education is an additional choice within a school, where part of the program is paid by the taxpayer and part by parents. The same applies to, for example, technasia. I would like to know from the proposers to what extent they have made the assessment that the risk of the disappearance of profiles within a school is proportional to this bill. It's really wrong in my view if our educational landscape is absorbed by this law. This applies in particular to children who benefit from the LOOT scheme or who attend DAMU schools. If these possibilities disappear, we break down sports and dance careers. Then we take away talented children the chance to get the best out of themselves. The question to the proposers is: how do you cope with this? Do children with sports talent or dance talent not get an unequal chance because of this bill, because they are limited in the possibilities that there would be? I simply think it is dangerous to look at where the ship is stranded and take the risk of thousands of children getting more difficult, if not impossible to develop their talent through this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u52	Mr Renkema has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u53	Let's talk about the fear of the rift. I do not think this law regulates the abolition of parental contributions. We just had a little debate about it. She doesn't arrange for it to be Maximized or anything. You can find all kinds of things; I just did. This law simply states that when parents can't pay the parental contribution, such a school, a TBO school or a technasium, they can't say: you can't go on this excursion. What is the causal link between the regulation for those very small group of children here that they cannot be excluded and that big story about fragmentation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u54	I said that for the first part I talked about I could very well follow the bill. But for the part of the extracurricular, technasia, LOOT, DAMU or bilingual education at school, I do see the risk that Mr Beertema clearly indicated that there could be a sucking effect of non-paying parents, which has an effect on the ability to offer a profile through a school. I have no certainty that that's not gonna happen, and I want that certainty. That is why I put this question to the authors: how are you going to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u55	So the causality is in the sucking effect of non-paying parents, parents who want to take advantage of the fact that that school does have a nice offer, but do not want to pay for it. Wouldn't it be much wiser to finance that from public funds for that reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u56	I have no problem right now with the system that works for this group of children, for these profiles that are offered. I also have very few reactions to this: this is a problem that I am facing. I like that schools can distinguish themselves from various profiles. I think it would be a shame if, with a huge extra contribution in the lump sum, we gave some kind of state education and each school could offer these profiles. I think it would be very nice if we could leave that at the schools that make the choice to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u57	Mr Renkema, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u58	What does the VVD think of the fact that that beautiful profile is simply not accessible to all parents, so that children are deprived of opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u59	At the moment when there is a discrepancy, you also take it away from children who are eligible for it. That is a difference between the position you have from GroenLinks and that I have from the VVD. I will come back to that later in questions I have about, for example, foreign school trips. I don't think we should get some kind of race to the bottom, but we should see how we can keep things in order so that kids can take advantage of it. There are all kinds of arrangements to be able to participate. I understand that not all municipalities offer these arrangements. I would find it much more interesting to see which municipalities do not participate in the arrangements and whether we can push them gently so that they can enable these children to participate or perhaps we can force them to do so. I don't think this bill is necessary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u60	I have given an example, by the way, from primary education, of a school nearby, with a parent contribution of almost €10,000. It says willingly, too. How does Mr Heerema, the VVD, look at such an example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u61	I think it's absurdly a lot of money. I find it really absurd to pay extra for your child's education in that way. That's why I'm looking, even as a VVD'er, for a balance between what you ask and what you don't. In my opinion, it is not good if children who can afford to pay for this and possibly travel very expensively end up in a particular school, living in the same kind of bubble and then come into a society that suddenly is a lot more diverse than they have experienced in school. So I'm also looking for that balance. Then I find €9.600 or €9.700 no matter how high it's going to be really absurd amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u62	I'm glad we agree. I ask because I think that such an amount leads to self-selection, that there will be parents who say: it may be voluntary, but I am not going to register my child there. Does Mr Heerema not think that, in secondary education, asking for a substantial parental contribution, even if that is €400 or €500 for LOOT or for bilingual education, is self-selection? Shouldn't you be much clearer in that you can't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u63	When it comes to that €9,600 or €9,700, that's for sure. However, there is a big difference between your own contribution for LOOT, which is about €200 to €250, or a contribution for bilingual education of €400 and the amount you just mentioned. There's a difference for me. That is why I am trying to find this balance in how we are going to deal with the fact that bilingual education and technasia will soon be subject to fragmentation at the time of the adoption of this law. If the proposers have a very good solution to this and can convince them that this would be a workable thing, I am not even inclined to oppose it. But I'd like to have the answer to the question of how they're going to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u64	Then the proposers must fight against the world view that the VVD apparently has or at least Mr. Heerema, namely that there will be a sucking effect, that parents actually do not have any deep down for their child and that they will therefore benefit from something they are not going to pay for. That's not the VVD's at all, is it? You would say that you assume that parents want to do everything that is best for their children and that they probably deny themselves anything to pay that extra contribution, but that in some cases that doesn't work. My question is much more from what perspective the VVD is reasoning and whether Mr.Heerema does not agree with me that if you follow his reasoning you actually say: that offer is all nice and I don't want to deny it to anyone, but in the end it's only for the people who can just pay it. It's just divisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u65	No, because I just indicated that there are all kinds of municipalities that have arrangements. Turns out that's not national coverage yet. I can very well imagine that we are focusing our efforts on this in order to ensure that there are opportunities for parents who want to participate rather than putting the risk at the school, whether or not a profile can be maintained. 'Cause I'm not convinced that that sucking effect isn't gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u66	Mr Heerema continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u67	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the own contribution for school trips, especially on the vo. Sometimes people go to faraway countries, such as China or Japan. I see that there is a dilemma here, because how do you ensure that children are not taken away from a journey while at the same time you want it to be accessible to every child? The result that there is no longer any foreign travel to Rome, Paris or London is a real shock to me. Taking away these wonderful experiences for children cannot be the outcome of this law. As well as not punishing children for the financial situation at home, you shouldn't punish children for the fact that others don't want or can't pay. Mr. Chairman. I don't have the answer. I believe that the proposers should come up with this solution; they are encouraging this discussion. That is right for the first part of my contribution. I have also been complimentary on this, because I share the efforts of the proposers in this respect. But as far as I'm concerned, there are a lot of hooks and eyes on the second part. The specific question to the proposers is: how can you remove the concerns I have just addressed? What solutions do you have for this? Are you prepared, for example, to include exceptions in this law? Or are you waiting for possible amendments? Mr. Chairman. Something quite different, in the margins of this debate. I had a group of fifteen very gifted children visit today. They were really cute kids. Very wise, creative and captivating, but what were sad stories about going to school with abdominal pain, not being able to sleep from stress, misunderstanding at school and getting stunned in our educational system? I'm talking about kids who go to the gym from the sixth grade, who skip four classes or go to college when they're 13 years old. One of them gave me a letter from Jason Storm. That letter was for Minister Slob. Jason asked me to give this letter to the minister, please. Since I was going to see Minister Slob tonight, I promised to hand over this letter. I would like to ask the messenger to hand over this handwritten letter to the minister. I hope the Minister will read this letter and see the opportunity to send Jason a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. Finally, Mr Rog will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u69	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to take this opportunity to congratulate my two colleagues on exercising their rights as co-legislator. The same applies to their employees. Like you, Mr President, I know from experience that it is not easy to write such an initiative law, to submit it and ultimately to defend it here in the Chamber. So congratulations from my group. Mr. Beertema also said: we don't often see so many socialists at the same time in box K. So especially for you, I put on my red tie. As the authors of the bill rightly point out, the voluntary parental contribution, at least excluding children whose parents have not paid the voluntary parental contribution, has long been a matter of political concern and debate. Let me make it clear: it is unacceptable for children to be excluded from the Christmas breakfast if their parents cannot pay the voluntary parental contribution. Schools that do so have not only understood nothing of the spirit of Christmas, but also give children an experience of exclusion. In a safe educational environment, that does not belong. Or take the school of the Hague School Association "The Closed Door" with a voluntary parental contribution of no less than €9.700 per child per year. I think it's absurd. Or take the example of the vo-school where part of the teachers' corps was actually cleared for part of the class to go to Norway to have a skiing holiday there, at least if parents were willing to pay a contribution of €4,000 per child. Absurd! We need to get rid of that. That applies to the members of my group. Fortunately, this also applies to the proposers and also to the minister. The CDA welcomes the fact that the Minister has indicated ready-made that the voluntary parental contribution should be genuinely voluntary. He has made good agreements with the PO Council. However, Mrs Westerveld, Paul Rosenmöller's VO Council strongly resisted. They didn't want a covenant there. But I understand that Minister Slob Paul Rosenmöller and the VO Council have been forced to their knees and that, in the end, a covenant has also been concluded there. Isn't it? Because now we got another letter saying that they didn't actually agree with this initiative law. I'd like a response from the Minister. I'd like to know exactly what this is about. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the purpose of this initiative law is therefore widely supported. Look at the announcement of one of the petitioners, Mr. Kwint, on Twitter today. He says: tonight we are debating our initiative law to ban the exclusion of children whose parents cannot pay the parental contribution. Of course, we fully agree with that. Children of parents who cannot afford it should not be excluded from participating in the education process. But the question now before us is whether this bill is the best way of doing that. The Council of State is critical and believes that it is better to wait and see how the rules and laws currently in force and the rules that the Minister has now made with the sector work out. They also warn that there is a risk of additional damage as a result of this bill. On the one hand, we run the risk that because of a lack of distinction between not wanting to pay and not being able to pay, ordinary activities, such as the trip or an activity such as a Christmas breakfast at school, will no longer be possible if parents in large numbers start to invoke their right to no longer pay the parental contribution. The CDA would very much regret that. In addition, this law makes no distinction between, on the one hand, the voluntary contribution for regular school activities and educational resources and, on the other hand, the special supplementary programmes, such as bilingual education, technasia, Loot, DAMU et cetera. A lot of people have already talked about that. We were given the impression from the answers to the written questions that the applicants are aware of this possible consequence, namely that the supply of education is distorted, but they are not taking any steps to prevent that consequence. My group therefore attaches great importance to this point in the first-term response given by the proposers. How can we combat the fragmentation of educational provision? I'm also very happy to hear from the Minister how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u70	I have a question similar to the one I asked the VVD on this point. Mr Rog, of course, outlines the excesses, such a ski trip and almost €10,000 tuition fees for an elementary school. Then he says: I want to counter that, but I do want to prevent all kinds of other schools from necessarily having to break their offer. I wonder if he's also looking for the causality between them in the sucking effect of parents who just don't pay, what the VVD is talking about. Does the CDA share that fear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u71	What fear should I share?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u72	That there's gonna be a lot of parents going to say, "I'm just not gonna pay for it anymore."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u73	Yeah, I just talked about that. I would be very sorry if, as a result of this legislative proposal, there was some kind of trend of parents saying: we are entitled not to pay the parental contribution. I believe that we should ensure that if a particular educational offer costs a little more, it is also paid for by the parents, except the parents who cannot afford it. I think that the proposers have actually ignored that so far, and it would be a credit to them if they were to look for solutions that would make more difference between the non-cannons and the non-willers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u74	What does the CDA base these pessimistic expectations on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u75	Well, yeah, I think we're living in a time when more and more people are claiming their rights, and that the collateral damage of this bill could be that there's an atmosphere of: yes, boys, that parent contribution doesn't really have to be. My concern is with the parents who can't. I would regret it if we were to find ourselves in a situation where we are going to impoverish that educational environment in schools, on which you have also so clearly pointed your finger, Mr Renkema, by only learning mathematics and language and no longer having to work together in another way in education and training.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mr Renkema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u77	Finally. I think we share that we do not want that at all. Couldn't a solution be that such other options in the curriculum are simply paid for by the public?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u78	This is the downside of the interruption I have committed to Mr Renkema. I wouldn't want you to have to pay for the choices I make for my children. I think it makes sense for me to pay for doing my kids in a school where some extras happen in the curriculum, but at the same time no one is excluded if he can't afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u79	The clashing human images that come forward here, with some people thinking a little more positively, let me put it aside. Look, I understand Mr. Rog's fear. I have also said something about this in my contribution, namely that I cannot rule that out. But you already have the right not to pay that parent's contribution. So, in terms of rights, not that much changes. The only thing that changes this law is that a school can no longer use the potential exclusion of a child as leverage to force people to pay. Doesn't Mr Rog actually think it is an incorrect thing to use the exclusion of children to collect the contributions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u80	But Mr. Futselaar has heard in my contribution that that's right what I don't want either? I don't want children to be excluded if the contribution isn't paid. That is the very essence of my speech. I would just like to point out that I think that the authors of this law are a little too easy to cross over a number of elements, such as the breadth of the curriculum on the one hand and the attention given to supplementary programmes such as bilingual education on the other. I'm asking them to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u81	Agreed, and I have no doubt they will. But I am glad to hear that Mr Rog's objections are at least not at the essence of the law itself, but much more in the reaction of the authors to, for example, the criticism of the Council of State. And we'll hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u82	Definitely. I'll say the following before Mr Futselaar leaves the building cheering and thinks he already has the support of the CDA. I have also asked questions about the proportionality of this. Is this the right step now? And I didn't rule out that it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u83	Finally, a fucker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u84	For the record, if I'm allowed to leave this building, I almost always do that cheering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u85	Look, thank God. That's a good mind. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u86	Yes, I always applaud when Mr Futselaar has left the building.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u87	The polonaise is almost deployed!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u88	I would just like to think about Mr Rog's idea, which I understand very well, that he wants to make a distinction between not being able to pay and not wanting to pay. If you really want to do that, do you actually say that someone who says he doesn't want to pay should be obliged to pay the voluntary parental contribution? Well, that's basically what it's all about, isn't it? Because what else in his eyes is the distinction between not wanting and not being able?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u89	I myself find it difficult when you, as a parent, make a choice for your children for a school with a special concept, to put it more generally, you are not prepared to pay the voluntary parental contribution, when you are, for example, a Member of Parliament. We know that such a special concept entails more costs than just teaching basic skills, that is to say, the core curriculum of a school. I'm also a seeker, but I'm not a petitioner of this law. I'll ask if we can find a way to counter that risk of distortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u90	I understand. I've asked questions about that, too. But I would like to talk about the substance, about what volunteering actually means. I believe that Mr Futselaar, or Mr Renkema, spoke about this too. Voluntary is voluntary. I can be a MP, or I know what, but if it's voluntary, I can or can't do it. The only person who's a potential victim of that is my child, or someone else's child who doesn't want to pay. That's my problem. Because we just have a voluntary parental contribution. It doesn't say: if you can afford it, it's actually not that voluntary at all. No, it's just voluntary for everyone. This law doesn't change anything. The only thing that changes this law is that the sanction, which is still being applied, is no longer in some places. You can only be for that, can't you? Just look at that element for a second, because that's all this law is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u91	I think I agree with Mr Van Meenen, but I do distinguish between the regular programme and the special schools. I am referring to special schools in terms of supplementary curriculum, such as bilingual education and so on. If we let that go completely and not somehow, with a covenant or whatever, arrange something to secure it, we'll lose it. I wouldn't want that. I totally agree with the spirit of voluntary voluntary. I also agree that a child should never be excluded. But let's look for a stick behind the door, or at least for the moral apple that pays who can. I miss that element in the law. That is what an important part of my contribution, which is critical, focuses on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u92	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u93	I understand that, and I also think there should be such a moral apple, but a moral apple is not governed by a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u94	But I'm also not convinced that that law should be passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u95	No, no, no, but I'd like to go over the current situation. Mr Rog is actually suggesting that there is something now, which I do not think there is at all. There is nothing but the voluntary parental contribution. That's just a fact. The proposers do not change anything about that at all. They don't make the parental contribution any more voluntary. The parental contribution cannot be more voluntary than voluntary; it is entirely voluntary. All the proposers do is look at the back. They say: the parental contribution is voluntary and you don't have to pay; you may not be able to pay, but that doesn't really matter, because if you don't pay, your child will not be excluded. That's what this law is about. Mr Rog fears that this might lead to an aspirant effect, distortion or whatever. Then we have to evaluate whether that really happens. I don't believe it at all, because if I were still a parent, I'd pay for it. This law isn't gonna change that. Does Mr Rog agree with me that this law does not change the nature of voluntary activity and that we really need to look at what this law says now, namely: you cannot exclude them anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u96	Mr President, that is what the law does. At the same time, the rules are already in place to ensure that this is voluntary. I think I will end with questions to the Minister. Why do we need this law? In the end, can the Minister not make sure that this does not happen again through the inspection? What about parents who have a complaint? 'Cause I'm getting messages from parents, too. This shows that the parental contribution at their school is not actually voluntary and that there are letters of formal notice and so on. I have serious objections to that. In my view, this is just the question: are we going to solve it through this law or in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u97	I have the feeling that this point has been widely exchanged. Mr Renkema has already interrupted this, but he would like to ask another pressing question. I do not want to deny him that possibility, because this is legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mr President, I understand your hint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u99	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u100	I have one more question. Mr. Rog just made a strange distinction for me. You have what is paid from the funding, namely language and math, all quite shaky, some sort of Trabant Socialism. And besides, you have the extra profiles, but they actually have to be paid by parents. Did I get that right? Does he make that distinction here? So can the differentiation in secondary education in the Netherlands actually only be paid by parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u101	No, Mr Renkema knows what's going on. It is true that education at a Loot school, bilingual or Cambridge English education is more expensive than at a school that does not. But free-school education is also more expensive because of the use of certain materials. That is why schools are asking for a voluntary contribution. Mr Renkema knows that. Those schools can't live without them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u102	Finally, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u103	No, that's gonna be a repeat of moves, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u104	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u105	Great, thank you. Mr Rog continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u106	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish it anyway. The Stichting Leergeld, the organisation that wants school children to participate, is also critical on this very point. It indicates that children from less well-off families have the chance to gain less experience during the education period, when less paid and less will be offered in schools. I'd like a response from the proposers. The Minister would like to hear from the CDA how many incidents have occurred following the conclusion of the agreements with the PO Council and the VO Council, because that will also indicate the need for legal action now. I had already indicated that I wanted to ask the Minister if the Education Inspectorate could monitor the actual voluntary nature of the voluntary parental contribution and how complaints from parents are handled. I very much look forward to the first-term response of the proposers and the Minister, which will take place later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u107	Thank you, Mr. Rog. We have thus come to the end of the first term of the Chamber on the proposal of the law of Members Kwint and Westerveld to amend various educational laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-11.u108	I would like to thank Members for their input. I would also like to thank the authors for their presence. I wish their wisdom and strength in the preparation of the answer. I would also like to thank the Minister, namely the advisor of both applicants. We'll be in touch as to when the petitioners will take charge of the defense. It will take place at a later date, not this week.
