ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is a debate on the report by the National Ombudsman on the Van Laarhoven case. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Since 2015, Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner have been serving years in prison in a Thai prison under inhuman conditions. Since 2015, D66 has been trying to get the bottom line with the support of colleagues. We have asked written questions. We've filed motions. We have drawn attention to this in the debate. The National Ombudsman has now succeeded in bringing the facts to light. I am really grateful to the Ombudsman and his staff for that, because I fear that if he had not done his inquiry, we would not have been here today. If you come to that conclusion, I'm shocked. The conclusions of the National Ombudsman are clear and shocking: the Dutch government has been careless. The Dutch authorities have not taken into account the interests of Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner. That's serious. The request for legal aid was the direct cause of the persecution of Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner by the Thai authorities. It's made two people's lives hell. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. D66 does not want to sit on the judge's seat, nor did the National Ombudsman. This is not about Mr Van Laarhoven's trial in the Netherlands, but about the actions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Justice and Police prior to the arrest in Thailand. The need for the National Ombudsman to be involved is intriguing and sad, but it is clear and it calls for action, and it is now. When I read the Minister's letter, it seems as if nothing is possible and the impasse remains. But there's more to it than that. That's why I'm asking the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to seek diplomatic contact with the Thai Minister in order to speed up or withdraw the appeal, so that the Wots can be started and Mr Van Laarhoven can be brought to the Netherlands? Is the Minister prepared, as long as the Wots cannot be started, to seek diplomatic contact with the Thai Minister to prepare for the extradition of Mr Van Laarhoven, to make arrangements on this matter, and we also have Article 4 of the Thai Extradition Act, and under what conditions and then to ask the Public Prosecutor to extradite Mr Van Laarhoven? Is the Minister prepared to make these diplomatic bilateral agreements, also to explain the situation and the role of the government in it, and also how important it is that Mr Van Laarhoven comes back to the Netherlands? Why did the Minister not mention Mr Van Laarhoven's partner in his letter at all? She was a witness, but was then mentioned in a letter as a suspect. She was actually thrown to the lions with that. That's why she's stuck. What's the Minister gonna do about it? What measures does the Minister take to prevent this kind of human tragedy? Mr. Chairman. The government cannot make up for the years in hell, but can do its utmost to make up for what has not happened so far. That's where my concerns lie. The Minister should share these concerns. It's his ministry, he's responsible now, he can do something. The Minister has previously indicated in an interview that he stands for the rule of law. I hope he can convince us today as a Chamber that he wants to make the most of his efforts to get Johan van Laarhoven to Holland and also to see what he can do for his partner. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u4	Thank you, Madam President. It is good practice for politicians to be cautious about individual criminal matters. Whether Mr Van Laarhoven is guilty of drug trafficking or not, it is not up to us to judge, but the actions of the prosecution are the responsibility of the minister and there are cases of real concern to me. As Mrs Bergkamp said, in 2014 the Dutch police, after consulting the D.A., asked the justice authorities in Thailand to launch their own Thai criminal investigation into Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner. My first question is: why also to Mrs Kaen-In? With regard to Mr Van Laarhoven, suspicions of drug trafficking, of money laundering, of participating in a criminal organisation, but Mrs Kaen-In was not a suspect in the Dutch criminal investigation and yet the Netherlands asks the Thai authorities "your child cooperation and consideration to initiate a criminal case" to initiate a criminal investigation against both suspects, the said suspects. Were there enough clues to label her as a suspect? What are the reasons why the Department of International Legal Aid in Criminal Matters of the Ministry of JenV encourages another country to prosecute and does not choose to use legal aid? Because it makes a huge difference between the two, and I ask the Minister whether you are referring to a request for legal aid or a request for criminal proceedings, in which every kind of direction is out of our hands. Is it not wise not to do such a radical change of course, which is so profound in people's lives, when a judge is on vacation that is the one who was responsible for the case and then let a replacement take it off? Was the then Minister aware of the decision to ask Thailand to initiate its own trial? Both partners have been sentenced to long prison sentences in inhumane conditions. And then the D.A. says that we can't do much about that, because that just wasn't foreseeable. If you ask another country to prosecute and you point out someone as a suspect, then you can't pretend it's a big surprise that it leads to a conviction and to a creatureless long time in a Thai cell? How plausible does the Minister consider this position of the Public Prosecutor to be? How is it that the D.A.'s office hasn't given any proper thought to the consequences for Van Laarhoven and his partner? It reminds me of some of the qualifications I've heard over the past few days about some of the D.A.'s executives: "unattainable," "closed," "not to rewrite." Does the Minister consider that at a later date the prosecution has reflected openly and honestly on whether it has acted correctly? If so, where does it come from? The Minister himself lays a damp, wet blanket on the Ombudsman's findings. He may have qualified the prosecution's actions as "unfair," but that does not mean anything about their legality, the Minister says optimistically. It is also noted that the structures need to be reviewed once again to ensure that everyone's interests are properly taken into account and that Mr Van Laarhoven can go to the Netherlands. The latter can't be fast enough. I fully agree with the questions and comments made by Mrs Bergkamp. I would also like to thank her for her very active commitment in this case. But why does the Minister not mention Mrs Kaen-In? I don't understand. I'd like to understand that. Doesn't the D.A.'s actions have anything to do with some kind of crime-fighter mentality? Van Laarhoven had to go to jail on the left or right, while we should know in a rule of law that the goal does not always justify the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u5	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u6	"We sleep here without a bed or mattress and we do our need in the cell. I live with 13 other men in a cell of 11 m. During the day it is warmer than 40 °C. There's vermin crawling and there's a lot of violence. Adequate medical care is hardly available." Johan van Laarhoven writes this in a letter to this minister, from the concrete floor of his cell. You have to do something, he begs the Minister, for a Dutch citizen and his wife abused by the Netherlands as bait, both of whom rot in the Thai cell. Mr. Chairman. This gentleman is right in his letter, because this minister must do something to restore this situation. The Dutch government has acted improperly, so Johan van Laarhoven and his wife are in a Thai cell for years. The National Ombudsman has declared the complaint well founded. "The Dutch authorities have acted carelessly. They have not prepared their actions properly and they have lost sight of the applicants' perspective. And the state's defence is not credible," said the National Ombudsman. This is harsh criticism. Perhaps the most important thing to me is the way in which Mrs Kaen-In has been treated. It's actually been said. She wasn't even a suspect in a Dutch criminal case, she was a witness. But in order to give the Thai authorities something in their hands to start the investigation, she has just been labeled as a suspect. We know the consequences: 11 years in prison. What the hell is this shit? The Ombudsman calls this "particularly careless'. In fact, it is very simple in the essence: the Netherlands has something to make up for these two involved. The minister needs to fix this. I find the Minister's response to this critical and hard report really inadequate. The Minister says he wants to learn lessons for the future, and it is not yet clear to me how this can no longer be done. Let's make that a little clearer. But that doesn't help this gentleman and his wife, of course. They have been brought into this situation in an inappropriate manner by the Dutch authorities. Then you can't just sit with your arms all over each other, can you? Has the Minister contacted Thailand on this matter, or actually on these two issues? When was the last time he did that? What was the reaction? Perhaps an extradition procedure is needed to bring Van Laarhoven to justice in the Netherlands for offences committed or not. Perhaps a WOTS procedure is possible to leave the sentence in the Netherlands and to convert it according to Dutch standards. Or perhaps it should be sought more in diplomacy or bilateral treaties. I will not go into it in detail now, but let me be clear: doing nothing is not an option. It is not right that the Netherlands should not assume its responsibility after being so hard hit by the National Ombudsman. The Netherlands is responsible for this situation. That can no longer be denied. I would like to hear from the Minister what he will do with the possibilities and means he has to correct the mistakes made by the State and to put the disadvantaged, Johan van Laarhoven and his wife, Mrs Kaen-In, in the position they were in before these mistakes were made, or to realize the transfer to or extradition to the Netherlands as soon as possible. I'd like a generous promise. Mr. Chairman. For the rest, I can indeed agree with the questions put by Mr Bergkamp, but I can also agree with the compliments made by Mrs Buitenweg to Mr Bergkamp for her efforts on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u7	Thank you. Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The National Ombudsman has written a destructive report on the actions of the Public Prosecutor. Must be a busy day for Secretary Grapperhaus. In fact, today's report also came out, a disenchanting report, which describes the filth, conflict of interest, corruption, abuse of power, the wayward behaviour and lies of the College of Attorney General and the heads of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The committee has found so much misery in the prosecution that the report cannot even be made public in its entirety. So we're talking to a minister today who's in charge of a dysfunctional Public Prosecutor's Office. The CDA has demanded that the Ministry be called the Ministry of Justice and Security again instead of the Ministry of Security and Justice. Millions have cost this dreary demand. The reason for this was that the weightiness and stature of justice would become again prominent. Well, that exercise turns out to be a waste of money. It is a huge mess in this ministry and the behaviour of this OM is a disgrace to the rule of law of the Netherlands. Now to the Van Laarhoven case itself. We can talk about this long and short. Our view of the matter is partly as follows. If you are suspected or convicted of criminal offences in the Netherlands, you should not flee abroad. Unfortunately, that happens often, still. I have been calling attention to this for years, because there are still more than 10,000 convicted criminals who are supposed to be in the Dutch prison. Some of them are abroad. The state's attorney's office lets them escape and doesn't track them down. A request for legal aid to the countries in which they are hiding is not even made. The Dutch judge says you have to go to jail. And Minister Grapperhaus says: fine, come in a while. Then Minister Grapperhaus finds out that 10,000 convicted criminals do not volunteer and he often says "okay, that's good." If the Minister does not agree with my analysis, I would like to hear from the Minister when those 10,000-plus convicted criminals have been tracked down and served their time. In 2012, two OM-toppers went to Thailand for a mission. According to the Fokkens Committee, it now appears that these two have done each other a special service and probably barely got involved in consultations with their Thai colleagues. If they had, there might have been fewer mistakes in the communication between the Thai Public Prosecutor and the Dutch Public Prosecutor in the Van Laarhoven case. I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of his own actions in the Van Laarhoven case. What lessons has the Minister learned and what action has the Minister taken? The Minister says he wants to make an improvement together with the College of Attorneys General, but this college does not work at all. See the aforementioned report, "Fokkens'. Van Nimwegen is that man with the high libido who baked his sister's company from the state treasury is from this college, but his successor is Rinus Otte. That's the fool who gave Anne Faber's killer a reduction in his sentence and found the tbs unnecessary for this extremely dangerous killer. So the Minister leans on a college of arrogant pricks. Nothing good can come out of that. Replace that whole college, I'll ask the Minister. I would also like to hear from the Minister how he looks at this matter in relation to Poch's case. There, I believe, the then CDA Minister Hirsch Ballin has acted very careless, clumsy and possibly malicious. Can the Minister outline the similarities and differences between the case-Poch and the case-Van Laarhoven for me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u9	The story of Mr Markuszower is a general story, a story with many reproaches, but I think it is important to clarify one subject. Mr Markuszower talked about fleeing criminals abroad. I assume that was a general remark and did not refer to Mr Van Laarhoven's case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u10	Sure. It is about the 10,000-plus criminals who have been convicted by Dutch judges and are supposed to be in a Dutch prison, but walk freely. They are not or barely tracked down, no legal aid applications are made. In the Van Laarhoven case we see that there has been a very fanatical prosecutor, who has made a request for legal aid. What I implicitly point out is that the public prosecutor's priorities are not in order, because convicted criminals are free and unconvicted suspects are being hunted abroad. I wanted to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u11	Clear. I think it is important for the Acts that it is clear that this was a general remark and not a reference to Mr Van Laarhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u13	Mr. Chairman. With growing bewilderment, the 50PLUS group took note of the letter from the Minister of Justice on the Tilburg couple Van Laarhoven. The Minister is not doing anything, while the opinion of the National Ombudsman is really devastating. Our group commends the Ombudsman for the way in which he fills out his independent position, because that is not a matter of course. We would like to stress once again the importance of independent judgement on public function, now, when it comes to individual citizens and how they have been treated by the State, but also with regard to independent scientific research, independent accident investigation, independent inspections and independent credit transfers. These are sad conclusions in the report. The Dutch authorities themselves took the initiative to send a letter to the Thai authorities and provided information in support of their request. Moreover, they wrongly suggested that Van Laarhoven's partner was a suspect, while she was just a witness. So lies have been spread. Also, the Public Prosecutor suggested that the Thai could perhaps initiate a criminal investigation itself, while it was well aware of the risks of a drug-related criminal investigation in Thailand. The Dutch government did not take sufficient account in advance of whether the action was prudent and proportionate; that is the opinion of the National Ombudsman. The Minister walks the formal path. He is waiting for the verdict to be finalized and then he will review Van Laarhoven's request against the Treaty with Thailand, the Enforcement of Criminal Judgments Act and the policy framework for the transfer of foreign sentences. That extensive test track will run from December this year. It is hard to read that the Minister states that he is going to act swiftly. The couple are now in prison for five years. My group has the following questions. What other possibilities does the Minister of Justice have to get the Van Laarhovens to the Netherlands faster? Can the diplomatic path be followed, so that the Van Laarhovens will no longer be detained in Thailand under appalling circumstances? Is he gonna apologize? How are things going with Van Laarhoven's partner? As far as I know, she is not a Dutch citizen and cannot serve her sentence in the Netherlands on the basis of the aforementioned routes. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Bergkamp very much for her persistence in this matter. Finally, Madam President. I wasn't planning on going on vacation to Brunei in the Mayeces anyway. That was out of fear of the legislation there. But now much sadder: also out of fear of my own Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u14	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must confess that I find it a bit difficult and uncomfortable debate. A lot has already been said about what went wrong. In addition, you do not get away from going into the individual matter in a sense. I also think that we should bear in mind the context in which things have gone wrong. So I will try to go into that as well. Mr. Chairman. Basically, the VVD believes that crime shouldn't pay off. A criminal should not avoid criminal prosecution by moving abroad. In case of a legal aid application, the question is always what checks-and-balances apply to making such a request. How does the Cabinet see this? Those who actually commit a crime in a country with poor prison conditions and are convicted of it after a fair trial in that country do so on their own account and at risk. That criminal himself takes the risk of being punished in that country, even if that is a severe punishment. If you think before you start, it's the commandment. The risk of crime must always be borne by the criminal in such cases. However, we are not talking so much about crime in general but about one long-term case in particular. If Mr Van Laarhoven and I say that the serious suspicions published in the media are true that Mr Van Laarhoven would have committed 20 million euros of tax evasion, then the VVD wants that money back to the last penny. Only, in order to get this money back, Van Laarhoven must be back in the Netherlands, so that his case can begin at all and get a follow-up under the judge. I understand that that is not possible now and that everything is standing still. So as long as this case can't really start in the Netherlands because of the absence of Van Laarhoven, the court is obstructed in the Netherlands. What can the Minister do to get Van Laarhoven back to the Netherlands as soon as possible, and thus have the right to have his course here and, if possible, to recover the underpaid tax money? Is it true that Van Laarhoven's wife has not been regarded as a suspect at all in the Netherlands, but only as a witness? The prosecutor involved in this case would have said that he had not planned or foreseen the immediate capture of her and Van Laarhoven one-two-three. If so, how does the Minister assess this? Mr. Chairman. We're not playing the game today who's the best prosecutor or the best criminal. The task of the Chamber is not to rule on guilt or innocence in individual cases. I haven't tried to do that before. That is why I have clearly emphasised the word 'if'. The government rules and accounts; the Chamber controls and sets general lines. In our monitoring task, we can use the National Ombudsman, a High College of State. The Ombudsman's report in the Van Laarhoven case and his partner is what this debate is about. That report shows that things just didn't go well, to put it mildly. What lessons will the cabinet draw from this, in particular from requests to foreign authorities to prosecute Dutch people in countries where the rule of law is less developed than in the Netherlands? I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u16	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 6:34 p.m. So we suspend for fifteen minutes and then the Minister has the opportunity to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u17	The first term has been on the side of the Chamber. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions as asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u18	Mr President, thank you. On 11 March this year, the National Ombudsman's report on the behaviour of Dutch public authorities in requesting legal aid to Thailand was published. This concerns Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner. The Ombudsman concluded in the report that the public authorities involved in the actions following the request for legal aid to Thailand did not take sufficient account of the perspective of Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner. Your Chamber has asked me to respond to the report. I sent it to you on 8 April, but I am pleased that we are discussing this matter separately today. Because let's face it, and apart from how we're all in it, we're dealing with two people who are abroad under difficult detention conditions. Mr. Chairman. Together with the President of the College of Attorneys General, I had a discussion with the National Ombudsman on the report. In that discussion, the President and I made it clear that this is a report with firm conclusions, which we take very seriously. It was discussed that, like the National Ombudsman, we attach great importance to taking into account the importance of individuals involved when entering into criminal cooperation with abroad. At the same time, and that is the complicated issue, the fact that a suspect of criminal offences is located outside our borders should not easily lead him to avoid criminal proceedings. The need for detection to prevent impunity must therefore be given considerable weight. That is precisely the tension in which involved police and public prosecutors often have to operate under great pressure. In two cases, the judge held that there was no unlawful action by the public authorities in two detailed judgments. The Ombudsman's report does not affect that assessment, but he qualifies the conduct from the point of view of the person concerned as inappropriate. Acting that is judged lawful by the court may have major consequences for individuals concerned. That's where the tension is. That always requires very careful action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u19	I have a comment to make on the alleged legality judgment. I read that in the Minister's response. In 2014-2015 there was a preliminary judgment of the Court of First Instance that the State's action was not unlawful. By the way, that means something other than that a state is legitimate. Then, of course, this has been overtaken by the facts. Witness interviews have taken place in preparation for a civil case. We also have the Ombudsman's report. Those two cases were not known at the time. The legality judgment was either temporary or provisional. I therefore ask the Minister not to confuse these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u20	That's something else I'm really into. I think Mrs Bergkamp is talking about the verdict in the first instance. That was looked at by the court on appeal. The court writes, and I quote: "However, even if it were assumed that it was reasonably foreseeable that an appealant would be apprehended in Thailand in response to the letter of 14 July 2014 "whether or not due to an earlier powerpoint presentation (on which further information is provided below) ', this does not mean that the State can be accused of acting unlawfully'. Then there will be a very detailed consideration by the court in the appeal in that case. Mr. Chairman. Like I said, there's a certain tension in there. Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office pursue and do so in a legitimate manner. At some point they still do not have the perspective of the person concerned in mind. The Ombudsman has put the finger on the sore spot. Of that, I say that should not happen. Let me make this very clear. But that court ruling is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u21	I recognize that tension field. The fact is that, after the ruling, even on appeal, new facts have been put on the table. Witnesses have been heard and we have the Ombudsman's report. I do not think it is so strong to use this debate as an argument that the government was not unlawful. I do agree with the Minister that there is a tension. I am also pleased with the conclusion reached by the Minister, perhaps the most important thing is that what has happened here is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u22	Once again, therefore, I have just quoted a very essential consideration which has not been changed by new facts. Furthermore, for the rest, the case is still under judicial review. We must not anticipate this further now. I think it's very important that we agree that this tension field is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u23	I have a question about this tension field, which, of course, there is in general. But by emphasising this too much in this case, I think the Minister is going to be too nuanced as to what has happened here. In this respect, the National Ombudsman's report is very clear: because Thailand threatened not to cooperate with the request for legal aid, it has been suggested that the Thai authorities start a criminal investigation themselves. With regard to the lady we are talking about, she was not even a suspect in the Netherlands, but a witness. However, I would like the Minister not to see the tension as a justification for what has happened here, because this is too serious for that, and the report by the National Ombudsman is very hard to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u24	That is something I cannot rule on as a minister, because the case is still under criminal law. Mr Van Nispen knows that. In the end, the criminal court has to pass that judgment. I'll get back to you. What I have just indicated is that the field of tension requires at least I have said that out loud, and I would like to repeat that very careful consideration is being given to that perspective of those concerned. It is precisely for this reason that the report prompted us to consider very well the cooperation and division of roles in legal aid in criminal matters with the President of the College of Attorneys General after the discussion with the National Ombudsman. Of course, we both agree that in the conduct of public affairs, in which the legitimate criminal interest is served by the public prosecutor, there must always be sufficient consideration for the interests of the individual. The lesson that emerges from this case is that we really need to ensure that these interests are always checked. The common objective of the Public Prosecutor's Office and I is to ensure that this balance of interests is always optimally reflected in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u25	Mr Van Nispen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u26	The Minister started his reply by saying 'I can't comment on that', while I only quoted it from the public report of the National Ombudsman. That's where I didn't get it so well. Again, in general terms that tension field is there of course. You don't want impunity, so you need to be able to make a request to Thailand for criminal cooperation. It's all possible. It's just... we can see here that this has completely gone through. And that the interests of those involved, Mr. Van Laarhoven and Mrs. Kaen-In, have been forgotten? That is what the National Ombudsman has established. We may be able to emphasize the tension field in a general sense, but we are talking here very specifically about this case, in which major mistakes have been made and in which the Dutch government has harmed people in their interests and they have been crushed. We're about to find out what the Minister's gonna do to make this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u27	I've already indicated how I feel about this. I know the report, but there was a question from Mr Van Nispen as to whether I think it is fair. Of that, I say: as annoying as it may be, that is something I, as Minister of Justice, really cannot judge, no matter how much your Chamber would like it to be. That's really up to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u28	The minister says he can't say anything about a number of things because the case is formally under trial. I would like to make a comment on that. That is not formally the case. Criminal law begins the proceedings of the case, the court hearing, by declaring them. That is not the case in this case. In addition, it is important to note that the Dutch court has just said to the Public Prosecutor's Office: please make sure that Mr Van Laarhoven can come to the Netherlands, so that there can be a case at all. So the matter is actually on hold, paused, pending, until Mr Van Laarhoven can come to the Netherlands. Anyway, we shouldn't make it a legal discussion. I said in my contribution that it is not the case of the Netherlands that is going to be involved at some point. It is a question of whether the Minister acknowledges that mistakes have been made. I also wonder what the Minister's first reaction was when he read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u29	I would just like to make a very clear point: at the end of my story I have to say that there is still a cassation in Thailand. For this reason alone, I think that I would be wise not to give all kinds of judgments or reflections here, even if I might wish to do so at times. When I read the report, I found unbroken that in this case, and especially in the description of the actual course of events, there was no proper analysis of the interests involved and in particular of the interests of two individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u30	Finalizing, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u31	I'm glad the Minister said that when he read the report, his impression was that things didn't go well here. Did the Minister immediately feel he was going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u32	You say things didn't go well. You can also say: I understand the Ombudsman's opinion very well. The Ombudsman says that he declares the complaints well founded and that insufficient account has been taken of the interests of the two individuals. When I read the report, I had no difficulty in sharing that conclusion right away. Mrs Bergkamp and I were just philosophizing about legality. I am completely abstaining from a ruling on what that says about the matter. This is also due to the attempt that I will make later to try to get a number of things to go the other way. As you can see, I am a little hesitant about this. But I didn't think for a second, not a millisecond: what does the National Ombudsman write?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u33	Before you go any further, Mrs Buitenweg also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u34	So many words are used. The judge doesn't say it's illegal. Sometimes I don't see what the Minister himself is embracing and accepting and what isn't. As far as understanding is concerned, I also sometimes understand Mr Van Wijngaarden, but that does not mean that I always agree with him. I want to understand how the Minister saw that report and the Ombudsman's conclusions. Let me put it this way: does he acknowledge that the prosecution has acted improperly? So that is not just: I understand how the prosecution has reached a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u35	I understand and acknowledge what the civil judge is saying in this case. That's one. Two: I understand and recognise what the National Ombudsman has said. Then it is not up to me to judge it with the tension that there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u36	I'm just looking for who it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u37	That's right...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u38	Mrs. Buitenweg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u39	That's up to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u40	I think it was my turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u41	Yes, Mrs Buitenweg asks a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u42	I think the D.A.'s office is the minister's responsibility. I think it is important to know whether the Minister himself thinks and believes that the Public Prosecutor's Office, as the Ombudsman has also said, has acted improperly, because it also says something about how to act afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u43	I said in my reply to a question from Mr Van Nispen that... Let me first say that I said in reply to a question from Mrs Bergkamp that I was able to follow fully why the Ombudsman came to this opinion. I replied to Mr Van Nispen that, for this reason, after the discussion that the President of the College and I had with the National Ombudsman, I had a discussion with the President of the College. In that conversation, we concluded that we should deal with matters differently, because in the careful consideration of the perspective of the two individuals, as the Ombudsman calls it, things should have gone differently. Period. That's what I talked to him about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u44	Maybe it's not appropriate here, but I'm asking the Minister if he's afraid of the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u45	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u46	Can the Minister, in his own words, say clearly what he thinks? I asked that question in the first place. What does the Minister himself think? The same question has also been asked by Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks. What does the Minister himself think, so without hiding behind judges? The minister just said he's not afraid of the state's attorney's office. What does the Minister himself think of the prosecution's actions? In the first place, I asked what measures the Minister has taken and what lessons he has learnt. The only thing I just heard is that the judge has to decide all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u47	I was actually on the point of saying this to Mr Van Nispen and I will repeat it again in reply to Mr Markuszower's question to say that the balance of interests in the whole, and keeping in mind the interests of the individuals concerned, must always be optimal. We can see that. The Ombudsman has a clear criticism of this. We have taken that criticism into account. I can't make it any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u48	In conclusion, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u49	At least that is not clear enough for me. I understand now that the Minister is addressing the criticism. But what does the Minister himself think of the prosecution's actions, even if there had been no report? The Minister can look at the case himself, can't he? How does the Minister himself judge the action? He should not hide behind ombudsmen or judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u50	I repeat: the public prosecutor must also look very closely at the interests of the individual when carrying out a legitimate task, which is what we are talking about. The National Ombudsman finds, on the basis of a very clear and clear account of the facts in his report, that this has not been done or is not done sufficiently. I'm sure I can follow that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u51	I understand, however, that the Minister must be a little magistrate here. I do not think he is hiding at all; he is just standing here. I'd like to ask a question that looks a little more forward. That question concerns the Minister's point about sufficient checks on extradition after legal aid applications or after requests to maintain someone in a foreign country. How will the development of the rule of law in such a country be considered in the future? How do we ensure that there are enough strange eyes involved in such a check at the right level?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u52	Here, Mr Van Wijngaarden is hitting a nail on the head that I actually already had on the tip of my tongue. I sat down with the chairman of the college and said that we should do this differently together. There must be much more checks-and-balances in situations like this with an international legal aid application. With those checks-and-balances you may think of entering a what I just call a "four-eye principle" so that you always make sure that two people have looked at such a case and that you have been able to weigh with each other for a while whether you've done well. Secondly, I think that the judge-supervisor should really give his consent to the request for legal aid in these cases. That's shared, too. Unless there's really one day of bloodshed on it, but I don't see it. In other cases, and this would also be covered, the judge-supervisor in question should simply deal with the case. He knows the case. It is often complicated, but it is also a complex legal complex. Thirdly, there must be a very clear direction on the dossier. By that I do not mean some neologism, but by that I really mean that the person responsible for the public prosecutor also keeps a very clear overview of what is being done from the police and what is being done from the public prosecutor's office. Furthermore, there must be a very clear responsibility for the steps that are being taken. There are other things like that. These are, at least, the issues that I wanted to mention to you in my speech, but I am now doing so in response to a question. Together with the D.A., I am working to come up with a good protocol on how this is going to be done in the future, so as to prevent us ever coming to such a report as has now been prepared by the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u53	In conclusion, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u54	I think it's a good thing to hear how much self-reflection speaks of this. I would be grateful if the House could be briefed on this by letter, also because the Minister states that there are other matters and that he is still in discussion with the Public Prosecutor. Could the Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u55	Yes, I can assure you that I will return to that in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u56	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u57	Madam President, suddenly I have to think very much about the previous National Ombudsman, who said very often in interviews: the citizen loses confidence in the government because of all the concealing language. The fact that it is not clearly stated that it has gone wrong, and we regret that. The tip of the previous Ombudsman was always in such a case: go to that citizen and say first "I'm sorry, we didn't do well and from now on we're going to do it." I'm so afraid it's about to be turned around and first explained why, and how, and sister and all that. Why don't you tell me honestly: it went wrong, sorry, and from now on we're gonna improve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u58	Following the report, we went directly to the National Ombudsman and had a conversation. As a result, we are going to do a number of things differently. This shows very clearly that this needs to be improved. That's one. Two. I have already said a few times about it and I will explain it in a moment, otherwise the questions will keep coming back. I'm just going to take some big steps to what I really wanted to end up with, but I understand that this is something for your Chamber: what is this man doing? Let me put aside all the questions about legality and fairness. I received a letter from Mr Van Laarhoven. This is a case that's been going on for a long time. That letter appealed particularly to me and touched me very much. I think it's part of me picking that up. I would have said that to the end, but then maybe we're in a little too much of a ghost fight with each other. I think I should go and see how I can achieve something in this diplomatic way. Otherwise, I'm gonna be sitting too much in the field of the possible future criminal case. What about those tension fields? What about the measures we are really going to take? I've already promised your Chamber a letter on that. The fact that this letter is coming is nice, but Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner are not getting along very well at the moment. Then I immediately have the point, let me also say, that it is very difficult for me to say that the word 'diplomacy' already says it when I tell here with very large strokes of pens what the world is like. I do not find that very courteous to the party with which I may wish to discuss this diplomatically. That also explains why I'm gonna... I have a lot of questions ahead and I'll walk them by, but I won't be able to answer them all. I would be happy if you would keep those questions and say to me in a few months' time: you have now been able to go your diplomatic path, now you have to come back to those questions. In any case, I would like to say that I intend to consult with my Thai counterparts. That consultation could be about a number of things. It may be about whether it is possible to speed up at least the cassation procedure that is currently under way in Thailand, so that we get into the WOTS atmosphere sooner. For the viewers at home, I'm talking in jargon right now. Wots stands for Law Transfer Enforcement Penalties. That's actually how I'm in it. This is because individual situations are sometimes very difficult to grasp in what the Court may consider to be "legal' or "incorrect' by the Ombudsman. I think I should just get to work on that, diplomatically, even if it is a matter that dates back a number of years. That was actually my very long answer to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u59	I understand that there are Members' questions. At the same time, I also note that we have actually only just begun to reply to the Minister. So I would ask Members to try to keep the questions brief and concise. Although, I don't have to explain it to you. Mrs. Bergkamp, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u60	I must say, I am very happy with what the Minister just said. For the first time, I'm just saying, there's a form of displacement, empathy in this case that we've been working on for years. I just want to say to the Minister that I appreciate that very much. I also know that family is watching right now and that it is also important for them to express that feeling once, because I have to say the following. When I read the reaction of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice and Security to the report, I thought: this is not it. He was talking about the partner, and maybe he wasn't. I think that's wrong. In order to restore that confidence, we also need to find the right tone with each other. That's what I was going to say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u61	Thank you, of course. Perhaps it is good to give the Minister the opportunity now to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u62	Shall I answer the questions, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u63	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u64	I have spoken about the Wots, one last time for the viewers at home: that is the Passing of Criminal Judgments Act. Many questions have already been addressed in the introduction. What lessons do you draw from this report? I said I sat down with the Attorney General and that we're actually making a list. You will forgive me if I now hand it over to the department to further develop it with the college. I will return to your Chamber in a letter. Let me make it quite clear that I will at least do so before the summer recess. Mr. Chairman. I answered the question about contact with the Thai colleague. Mr Van Nispen asked how I am going to ensure that it does not happen again in the future. I said that I think we should have these checks and balances in such a way that we do not get another report like this or, worse still, that we get another situation like this. I do not really want to go into contacts and such. I will, of course, be more accountable in due course. I'm working on that. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked by Mrs Buitenweg. I'm having trouble answering it right now. As an example, I would like to mention the question of what exactly have been the reasons for choosing to ask Thailand to start its own investigation. I certainly want to answer those questions, but simply in the light of the fact that there is still a cassation in Thailand and at least there is a certain standstill in the procedure, I do not think it is appropriate to do so now. I would simply like to answer Mrs Buitenweg's question as to whether it would be better not to make such a choice when the rc is on holiday. I think I have said that checks-and-balances on such important things as international legal aid applications really hear that the service is handling the case. In very exceptional circumstances, there is a reason to hand it over. This also applies to the four-eye principle and to ensuring that there is a director in such a file, who can pay attention or the things that are happening are completely correct. He also needs to keep an eye on what belongs in the whole balance of interests. The position of the public prosecutor that the arrest was not foreseen is subject to discussion, which has been shown to be clear. In the case I mentioned, Mr Trof said: well, we do not think that is relevant to the question of legality. But as far as I'm concerned, we're not having that discussion here right now. It could eventually be dealt with in a final case. Yes, the D.A. has indeed reflected on his own actions. This has already happened in the run-up to the Ombudsman's report, and of course it happened after the report was published. I have to wait, because Mrs Buitenweg wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u65	I suggest that the Minister should first take a moment in his reply. Then I'll give you an opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u66	Mr Markuszower asked what we are going to do to allow those 10,000 fugitive criminals to serve their sentence. There is the team FASTNL of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which daily work is being done on the detection of fugitive criminals. In such cases, extradition requests can be made to transfer these criminals here. How do I feel about dealing in the Van Laarhoven case? Well, I've said enough about that. For this, I refer to my previous answers. How do I look at this case compared to other cases? I'm not going to answer that question. The case referred to by Mr Markuszower is currently under the Dutch court, so I am not going to say anything about it. And, by the way, if I really had to mention the differences and similarities with other matters in every case, I fear that I would really be taking advantage of your time, Mr President. I do not support Mr Markuszower's appeal to replace the College of Attorneys General. The Fokkens Committee has expressly stated that it trusts this college. The Committee believes that this college should have the space and time to implement the plan of action for a number of thorough improvements in management and culture. Mr Krol asked about Mr Van Laarhoven's partner. I have already said and I would like to stress once again that I expressly include Mr Van Laarhoven's partner in my further actions. Mr Krol also asked about the other possibilities that still exist. I have already referred to the Wots, but that was, I think, somewhat known to him. I've been talking about the diplomatic path. Mrs Buitenweg asked about the criminal mentality of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that's a slightly different formula for what I call that tension field. The word "crimefighter" could be seen somewhat in a negative connotation. I don't see it that way. It is the prime task of the Public Prosecutor's Office, especially in the Netherlands, where the principle of opportunity is an essential part of the rule of law, to make this a matter of real interest where there is an investigation. I said in my introduction that that does not mean that the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office still have to take account of the perspective of the individuals involved in such a case. So far, Mr President, I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u67	Thank you. I would now like to give Mrs Buitenweg the opportunity for her question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u68	You say "her question," but the Minister really went through all the questions at a bad rate and there are a lot of questions to ask. I also understand that that's difficult. The Minister says that he does not want to go to prison at the moment, if I understand it correctly, on many issues, such as why the woman was also considered a suspect and was also prosecuted and ended up in prison. At the same time, this is very worrying: someone who was initially only a witness then ends up in a cell in Thailand and spends years and years in inhumane conditions there because of that act of the Public Prosecutor's Office. So at what point do we get the answers to the questions we have all asked? For example, the Minister also says about the Judge Commissioner: from now on it is better to wait until someone is back from vacation. Why didn't that happen in this case? I've asked a lot of questions. The Minister finds it difficult to answer them now. I would like to know when we will be able to exercise our control function.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u69	So I did answer that point of the judge Commissioner, because I think that much more is one of the checks-and-balances that should be included in it. You can also say that one of the checkpoints is to ensure that the interests of the individuals concerned are guaranteed in such an international request for assistance and are carefully involved. So that is more of a procedural aspect. The question of whether or not a witness would have been considered a suspect is a substantive question. I will not go into the substance of the criminal case. That's not for unwillingness. There will certainly be a moment when I would like to discuss this with your Chamber, but that is not now. I really want to wait for that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u70	As far as this procedure is concerned, the Minister has said how he intends to do it in future. That's very good. One of the lessons learned is that in future it will no longer have to be steamed and boiling water, and that we will have to wait until the judge-in-chief returns. But my question was why that did not happen in this case. What's the rush? That is indeed another substantive question. The Minister may say that he does not want to answer any substantive questions, but those substantive questions drive us right, because it is because of these substantive events that people are in that cell in Thailand. But I hear the Minister say that he is going to write down all these questions and deal with them at a later date. I think that's much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u71	I would like to explain this to Mrs Buitenweg, because otherwise I would be failing to answer her question, so to speak. We really need to realise that in a case like this, it is not ultimately up to me as Minister of Justice to give an opinion on why it was decided at some point or not to send a particular letter to make haste. That is ultimately a judgment that is in every case of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Public Prosecutor's Office, point. What I have noticed, together with the National Ombudsman and the President of the College of Attorneys General, is that at least in this case it is apparent that there was no control mechanisms, so for example that there was someone there who said: wait, is the rush justified here, is a particular request appropriate at this time? On these control mechanisms, I said that we really need to set them up with each other now. I'm working on that, and I'll give you a letter on that. What decisions have been taken on the substance of this case, I am not going to let you know. In the meantime, I told you, I'll take it easy. Because, yes, whether or not a substantive debate here, that really does not help Mr Van Laarhoven and his partner. But I care that he's in there. I'm gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u72	Thank you. Short and final, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u73	Then I'm counting on my colleagues. Then my final question is what is the responsibility of the International Legal Aid Division in criminal matters. That agency is within the Ministry of Justice and Security. At some point, if I understand correctly, the choice was made to proceed to criminal prosecution instead of using legal aid. If it is not possible, then the general question to the Minister is: why should such a choice be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u74	That is, of course, very much in the case. I believe that checks and balances should ensure that the steps of that agency are well secured. You have heard me say, and that is very important, that there is a direction on the file and that there is accountability. There is one responsible person who makes a very clear statement: is the consideration made, for example, at that agency of international legal aid careful? Did they get all the pieces, etcetera? That's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u75	I too am left with a lot of questions, but let me concentrate on the two people involved, who have gotten into trouble because of the careless and inappropriate behaviour of the government. But what about their future? Then I hear the Minister say: I go in diplomatic consultation with my Thai colleague. I understand you can't explain that in detail in the Chamber. Then I must also express a certain degree of confidence in the Minister that he will be successful in this. But do I have to understand that since the publication of the National Ombudsman's report, he has not actually taken any steps in this respect until today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u76	Steps put in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u77	In the direction, for example, of your Thai colleague. Because the report of the National Ombudsman has been there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u78	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u79	I really do not want to go into that further. I said I cared about the situation. Maybe I referred a little too much to the letter, but it did come in, let me be honest. This is something I'm working on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u80	In conclusion, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u81	Then the Minister also said: a possible option could lie in the atmosphere of speeding up the cassation procedure. I'm not going to ask detailed questions about that. But there's a second subject, Mrs. Kaen-In. She too has fallen into serious trouble. The Ombudsman's report states that she was not a suspect but a witness, the Minister is not going to respond to that, but it really says so and then disappears because of the Dutch action in the Thai cell. The Minister said just now: I will also make a strong commitment to this lady's interests. If I understood correctly, that was the only sentence I heard from the Minister about this lady. But does he actually say that I am going to do the same thing, because perhaps it is even more painful what has happened to her? I do not need a qualification about this, but the Minister says here: I am going to do the same thing, because we have something to make up for in her case too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u82	As far as I haven't made that clear. I will certainly try very hard for Mrs Kaen-In too, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u83	Like Mr Bergkamp, I welcome the fact that the Minister is now making it very clear that he understands the situation and that he has some sympathy with both partners. But I read in the documents that something could actually happen from December. I now hear that diplomacy is being thought of. We do not get to know whether that has already started or is about to start, but I would like to hear something from a clue whether we could hear something more positive before December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u84	Yeah, something. Let me say two things about that. I'm going to send a letter to the Chamber before the summer, at least, about that improvement process, and I do have an interest in keeping your Chamber well informed. I may have to do so in a confidential way at some point, but I will admit that I am going to keep your Chamber adequately informed. So it's not gonna be like you're gonna hear something in three-quarters of a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u85	I would also like to congratulate you on that, because I understand that you cannot say everything publicly, especially if you let go of diplomacy. But with the Minister's undertaking that he may also want to inform the Chamber confidentially, I am in any case very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u86	The Minister had come to the end of the first-term reply. Let me see if Members need a second term. That's the case. I shall now be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u87	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of Bergkamp, Van Wijngaarden, Van Nispen, Keiken, Krol and Buitenweg. It was a list, I say, but to the Minister.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those motions asked the Minister to make the most of his efforts to do everything in his power to work diplomatically in the very short term to get in touch with his Thai fellow minister, his Thai counterpart, to see if the Wots request can finally begin. This requires that the cassation be speeded up or withdrawn. We had also asked in the motion for a resolution whether the Minister wanted to make an effort to do so and also to make use of the diplomatic bilateral agreements. But I have to say that the Minister has convinced us, on the basis of his story, that he is going to do the best he can, not only for Mr Van Laarhoven, but also for his partner. I do have a question for the Minister. He understands that, of course, we are eagerly looking forward to the moment that something happens and that something concrete is happening. It may also be confidential if the Minister finds that difficult, but I would like to ask the Minister if he can keep the Chamber informed of this as well as possible. Then he has the confidence of us to do everything in his power to get Mr Van Laarhoven to the Netherlands and to get his wife out of Thai prison. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u88	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg waives her second term. Mr. Van Nispen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u89	Mr. Chairman. I am going to be brief, because the most important thing has now been said again by Mrs Bergkamp. I would like to say this: it is very serious what has happened. I think we're all aware of that. It is true that the Minister is taking a different tone tonight than in his letter to the Chamber, but I still thought it was a bit economical. The Minister uses words like things should have gone differently, but I didn't hear a cavalier recognition of the mistakes made. What also concerns me is: what if the National Ombudsman had not investigated this? At first, the Ministry did not participate in the investigation of the National Ombudsman, because there would still be all kinds of procedures. We are delighted that this investigation has finally taken place and that we have such a National Ombudsman who has now been able to publish such a clear report. We're gonna give the minister the room to go in consultation with his Thai counterpart. I'm gonna have to keep asking questions. I hope that something has already happened, or else I hope that it will happen very soon. I also hope that this will really lead to something; I hope that it will be promising. But we're not gonna learn much about that tonight. I really hope that the Minister will be able to write us some nice things very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u90	Thank you. Mr Markuszower waived his second term. Then Mr Van Wijngaarden. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u91	Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion either, because I think that there is a great deal of appreciation for this Minister for his willingness to make such an effort. That was necessary, too. That's what we asked for. I understand that it is precisely the Minister of Justice who, here in this Chamber, has to express himself with some care and restraint. No problem with that. I'd like to point that out for a while. That's exactly what a Minister of Justice would do. It's a good thing that letter comes with improvement measures for those checks-and-balances. Again, thank you for that. As a chamber, we are also going to keep our finger sharp on the wrist, to ensure that all the lessons that need to be drawn are also drawn. Finally, through you, President, I would also like to express my appreciation for the Ombudsman's work. I think this made a big difference in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u92	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. As President, I would like to say once again that I can very much imagine that there are many questions in this matter, but I think you have brought them forward in a very good way. I do not want to comment on the substance of the matter, but I do like it because I have to keep the sitting rather short, to confirm it again. This will put an end to the second term on the part of the Chamber. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u93	Yes, the question asked was actually about... I have actually answered everything that was being discussed at first, but I would like to emphasise a few things. Keeping the finger on the wrist, possibly confidential, we've talked about it. Maximum commitment for Mrs Kaen-In and Mr Van Laarhoven. I also consider it to be an effort to hear that I am going to go that way, that's how it works when you ask for something. At least that was my idea from the beginning, with the proverbial hat in hand or not. Anyway, a hat is always useful in the tropics. In any case, I will keep the Chamber informed in an appropriate and possibly confidential manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-18.u95	That concludes this debate. No motions have been tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes.
