ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u1	I'm missing another Secretary of State. I'll suspend for a few minutes until we have an extra Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u2	The next item is the report (Doc. We have nine participants on the side of the Chamber. We have one maiden speech from Mr. Aartsen. The music corps will be here shortly, but first we will listen to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Kent of the SP Group. He has four minutes of speaking time, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sweden started eliminating asbestos as early as 1964. It has prevented at least 8,000 asbestos victims. In the Netherlands there was an active lobby of asbestos manufacturers, which prevented restrictive measures being taken in the Netherlands. That lasted until the early 1990s. Thousands of victims of material damage could have prevented what I say: should have been prevented. Today, through an active lobby, Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, is trying to ease the regulation of asbestos clean-up. The most recent example of this is the research that appeared last Monday and was commissioned by Aedes. The research report calls for a broad public debate on the real risks of asbestos. But one thing is at the forefront of the SP: there can be no relaxation of regulation because of the costs. First of all, there is safety and health. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Because let's not gamble with health. This debate is taking place following a large and good article in Trouw on the monitoring and enforcement of asbestos sanitation. The article gave a staggering picture of how the government doesn't get a grip on that asbestos industry. We knew this a long time ago, for example from the Court of Auditors' 2008 report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u4	I am curious about the view of the SP on that report that was delivered two days ago. You're saying we're just gonna put that next to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u5	We did get the report last Monday. We've studied that. The report says that there must be a discussion. We are always in favour of a discussion, as you know. But first of all, we think it is important that we start with the proper implementation of the rules as we have them now. I am referring to enforcement, and I am referring to the inspection of SZW, and I am referring to the monitoring of those asbestos repair companies, which are failing on all sides. I believe, and this was the reason for this debate, that this is now the top priority, because we must prevent workers and others from becoming victims of asbestos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u6	This is a very broad debate on asbestos. So I am of the opinion that the CDA is of the opinion that if you want to consider everything that is going on about asbestos, you should also take seriously the reports that appear on asbestos and have been prepared by TNO. We now have this report, and we are getting another report commissioned by IenW, which hopefully will come to us soon. Are you just gonna ignore that? Are you saying that we are going to make sure that everything is carried out in a good, orderly manner in the industry, and I'm just putting that report aside?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u7	We're not putting anything aside. In fact, we've seriously studied that report. If you would like to debate that report with me: very much. My assessment is that the report does not so much make recommendations or indicates how it should be done, but says: it would be good if a discussion took place. I just mentioned it in my speech: we are always in favour of a good discussion. But I also hope that the CDA will take the 2008 Court of Auditors' report very seriously, for example. I also hope that you have studied this in preparation for this debate. I also hope you've studied the report of the Tauw research firm. This was also about the functioning of the certification system, which dates back to 2007. Both reports indicate that it's wrong. The Wedding article and practice also show that it is still very wrong, so let's definitely talk about that with each other. But we're all gonna hear that when the CDA's group is involved. The core of the reports I just mentioned is the non-functioning of the certification system. Because in the asbestos sector, too, market forces and self-regulation are completely failing. A CKI, as such an institution is called, is paid by a company to issue a certificate. The same CKI, that company that is being paid, must then ensure that work is safe. But if they do this too strict, they threaten to lose a client, so they like to squeeze their eyes. All the scandals and all the reports that have appeared about them also show that this system is rotten and we have to get rid of it. 'Cause if you pay, it's up to you. The consequences are great. Companies go their own way. Fraud, conflict of interests, illegal removal of asbestos with unacceptable risks to the health of workers and the environment. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there is no grip and that fundamental changes in the system are needed that go far beyond the list we received from the Secretary of State in September? By 2024, some 100 million m of asbestos roof must have been removed, but if the government does not get a grip on the asbestos industry, the risk of illegal cleaning and dumping is huge. We need to get rid of this rotten system. That is why I propose that these CKIs be abolished and that environmental services take over their role. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she shares that view. Otherwise, I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. I referred to the inspection, the inspection SZW, for example, which must carry out the checks with eight men. With eight men, it is responsible for monitoring 300 asbestos repair companies which are required to monitor some 70,000 reports of asbestos-related work every year. With eight men! Is that capacity enough? Is the Secretary of State prepared to extend this massively, also in view of the increase in the number of work on removing asbestos roofs? There can be many more situations that get complicated. Finally, Mr President. The current system of monitoring asbestos sanitation is failing. That is what this debate is about, not about the lobby to further relax rules. Let us start by complying with the current rules, so that as a government we can actually get a grip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u9	The PVV agrees with the SP on the CKIs. None of that works. I hear the SP make the proposal to place it at the RUD's, but the experience with the RUD's is not to write about it at home either. Doesn't the SP think that if we set it up this way, it's gonna be just as big a mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u10	I think the big problem is that whoever pays now also decides what is and what is not allowed. What if you put that in public hands? In terms of enforcement of workers and working conditions, my preference is for the inspection SZW. If there is extra capacity, I have a lot of confidence that this could be done in a good way. I think that's the core of where these CKIs go wrong. I agree with you that if we invest that task in the environmental services, it is of course different about which service you are talking about, distributed across the country. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u11	That's right, at least we're largely in agreement on that. Indeed, the Inspection SZW but also the ILT: we, as PVV, find that they have been cut down in recent years, that there is too little occupation and that enforcement is indeed inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u12	That seems to me to be a useful observation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u13	Very well, thank you for agreeing so much. I call Mr Aartsen. It is not an ordinary debate that we are going to listen to now, but a real maiden speech. We're gonna sit for that for a while. I call Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad to be here today for my official maiden speech. It is good to see that there is so much appreciation and interest in the subject in a single group. That's always good, Mr. Chairman. I wonder if they can hold on to this kind of speech any longer. Mr. Chairman. It is truly an enormous honour to be here today as a representative of the Dutch Parliament, with the emphasis on'may'. Not many people have been given to be MPs. The Netherlands is one of the few countries in which it is actually possible for everyone to become MPs, no matter who you are, no matter where you come from. I sincerely think that is one of the most beautiful things we have here in Parliament. I myself come from a classic Brabant's family. On our dad's side we have a beautiful wine shop, and on our mom's side the family mainly consists of fries farmers. I'm leaving a silly joke in the middle, Mr. Chairman. We are also mainly from a family in which hard work prevails. My brother and my nephew are now also ready to continue the family businesses. I myself have deviated a little from that path, when it comes to the succession of the family business. It is precisely because of the hard work of my parents and my grandparents that I have been given the opportunity to study and to develop myself further. I must say, however, that it was not my study that was my greatest passion, but my political life and the opportunity to become active in politics. Mr. Chairman. The result is that I am proud of you now, to stand up as a representative of the people, as in my family, who rise up early every day to make something of their lives and to contribute something to this beautiful country. Because that's ultimately why I'm in politics: for people who don't have the time to come to Malieveld, for people who don't have the time to email us or to be busy every day with what's going on in this house. Those are the people who built our beautiful country and still do so every day. I am very looking forward to continuing to be a Member of Parliament for all those doers who make the Netherlands more beautiful day in, day out a little bit. That brings me right to the subject of asbestos today, because many people are involved in this too. It is important that asbestos is handled safely and carefully. In the past, unfortunately, too many people have become ill by working very intensively with asbestos unprotected. Good rules for the protection of employees are therefore extremely important. However, self-regulation in this sector has gone a long way. There is a perverse incentive in the system, in the market, because the stricter the rules become, the more lucrative it becomes for businesses. This is ultimately also at the expense of the affordability of individuals and companies which have to remove asbestos, with all its consequences. The industry lays down its own rules, which prove to be unnecessarily strict. This has adverse consequences for those who have to pay for it. The Secretary of State states that it also sees this problem and that it intends to take eight measures. The VVD Group strongly supports these measures. However, we do have the question of whether this is really enough to address the problem in this sector. We therefore believe that a number of additional steps should be taken. I start with the question of whether simple interventions are not unnecessarily rigorous and also unnecessarily expensive in the risk classes within the current system. Yesterday we received a report from not the least, TNO and two universities, Amsterdam and Utrecht, who actually drew the same conclusion. According to the VVD it would be good if simple interventions such as removing solid asbestos plates, windowsills or kit, not with huge stilts with showers and locks and everything should fall into the highest category. Isn't that in a simpler way to do with guarantee of safety? The Secretary of State states that it intends to tackle this problem by means of a partial certificate. However, we think it is important to look at the system more fundamentally. I would therefore like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about this. New innovations must also be able to come onto the market more quickly, provided that they are safe. The Secretary of State wants to achieve this through an innovation point. Can the Secretary of State undertake that this innovation point will actually work independently of the industry and the management foundation? Which parties other than RIVM and TNO are involved in this innovation point? We want to prevent existing interests from determining whether or not future competitors should be allowed to enter the market. Finally, perhaps the most important point of today. According to the VVD, as well as being safe for the people working with it, as well as being affordable and manageable for people and businesses who need to clean their roofs or other parts of their homes. There is still a concern: is there sufficient capacity in the market to achieve the ban on asbestos roofs by 31 December 2024? We see, on the one hand, a market that is quite overregulated and actually working badly, but, on the other hand, there is a serious shortage of labour in this sector. This is potentially leading to three problems for individuals and businesses. 1. The price of cleaning asbestos will rise explosively in the coming years. 2. There is a greater risk of illegal cleaning or self-cleaning by individuals and businesses, with all the health risks for those people. 3. People are at risk of getting fines when they fail to meet the deadline of 2024 because they are simply on a waiting list because there is insufficient capacity to clean up. How do both Secretary of State see the problems I just mentioned? As a VVD, we'd like to keep our finger on the wrist. Of course, people must not suffer from a malfunctioning asbestos system. Is the Secretary of State prepared to periodically monitor whether there is sufficient capacity in the market to clean all roofs? Does it also want to monitor price developments in the market? Is it also willing to ask the ACM if it wants to look at the functioning of the market? Mr. Chairman. Finally. It was an honor for me to be standing here for the first time today, not at all for the first time. I hope to be able to speak on behalf of my party on many other occasions on matters that concern hardworking Dutch people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you. This was a maiden speech from the booklet with a piece of personality... that of the fries farmers is going to keep up with me for a while, I think.. a bit of motivation and also policy content. I predict a great future for you as a politician, because you are going through your time horribly. You are taking a 50% extra and you are in the process of heating up the coalition. If you want to come here, I'll be the first to congratulate you. Afterwards, if there is a need, other people can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u16	So much for the festivities. Mr Aartsen has now promised that he will regularly provide fresh fries at the Members' Restaurant. So we have that commitment. I should like to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to warmly welcome Mr Van Aartsen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u18	Archs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u19	Archs. Excuse me, Van Aartsen is an illustrious predecessor. I should like to congratulate Mr Aartsen on this beautiful maiden speech, as the President also said. It was also beautifully personal. It's good to hear that and it's good to start like this. So thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about asbestos today. Asbestos, as we know, is still an assassin, and costs about 1,000 people a year. This can be done as a result of inhaling asbestos fibres, sometimes in a distant past: you have once been in contact with asbestos and only years later you become ill. As Mr Van Kent of the SP said, this means that we must continue to handle asbestos incredibly safely. At the same time, as Mr Aartsen said, there is also a huge task, for example, in removing asbestos roofs. We have until 2024 to make all roofs asbestos-free. That is a huge task. In order to make it even more complicated, the asbestos industry, which I have studied a little bit, is also a very complex sector. Partly there is private supervision and it is difficult for new companies with innovative and sometimes cheaper ways of removing asbestos to get the access they should. Of course, this must be done on the basis that it must always be safe to work with it. They should not take any risks, but of course there should be more room in that market. Mr. Chairman. I have three or four points for both Secretary of State in this debate. Is it not possible to give a little more space to work with a risk assessment in advance to have an independent expert look at which method actually fits a particular roof when applying for removal? Perhaps such an ex ante assessment by an independent expert will allow us to avoid unnecessary security measures and costs, of course on the basis of the principle that it should remain safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u20	I understand that it's a bit difficult for the PvdA occasionally to get smaller in this Chamber, but it is shocking to see that you voted against the PVV motion, which literally asked to make an inventory of those roofs and to go risk-controlled. That was exactly your story of just now: let's give a qualification to the roof in advance; then maybe we'll get 2024 too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u21	Perhaps this is the day when the PVV and the Labour Party will get closer together in the field of asbestos. Wouldn't that be something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u22	Well, if that's it, I think that's a good sign for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u23	It's a limited invitation, but we're gonna try today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u24	It's Ash Wednesday. So it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u25	Yeah, exactly. I doubted this pun. So about this risk assessment: can't it be done in advance and can't we take care of a lot of things and avoid costs? But, of course, it must be done independently. How does the Secretary of State see that? Then there is this supervisory role, which I have just mentioned. There's something crazy about that in the asbestos business. We know Ascert, who has to assess new asbestos removal techniques and therefore allows or rejects them, but Ascert also has private interests. How does the Secretary of State see that? Is that desirable? Shouldn't that be much more of an audience-driven oversight so that we make sure that the butcher doesn't approve his own meat? I don't think that's a good situation. I do not think it is right that the man or woman who has to do the work should at the same time assess whether that is safe or not. That must be done independently. Then the Inspection SZW. If I am well informed, there are about 30,000 requests per year from municipalities to remove asbestos roofs. We have eight or nine inspectors to check all this. How the hell can that happen in a good way? Can the Secretary of State clarify that a little bit? Does that happen in a safe way? Because I can also imagine that inspectors should have the space to carry out an unannounced check. If you have to assess 30,000 applications at all, I can imagine that unannounced checks are often quite effective because as an inspector you can go risk-driven to a particular place, but that is often not possible at all because of the limited human power. At the same time, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State, Mr Oomen-Ruijten, that inspectors are also afraid to carry out these unannounced checks because they fear for their health. Does the Secretary of State recognize this image? And could we do something about that? Finally, Mr President. Mr Aartsen also referred to it: asbestos must be safely removed, but it must be affordable for people, and it must be possible. Is the task up to 2024 possible for all these people? Can they afford that? And is there indeed access to sufficient companies that can offer their services? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Van Aalst of the Party for Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to my colleague from the VVD. Remember that today was the first and last time we had to leave you here in one piece according to the unwritten rules, so get ready! Mr. Chairman. Although the law leading to a ban on asbestos roofs still has to pass through the First Chamber, many people in the Netherlands are in the process of having asbestos removed. When this happens, it is important that it is done in a safe way, both for the people who work or live around or in the building, and for the workers who realize the removal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u28	A question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u29	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was just having a little debate about the PVV motion. I have checked: we voted in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u30	Well, I'm very happy about that. Then I apologize to my colleague. I was under the impression that you didn't support it. I was actually a little surprised at your new idea, when we had already launched it. But I'm glad that at least we've reheated our idea. I hope that today we will get a positive opinion from the Secretary of State on this. Mr President, I shall continue. At present there is no guarantee of this. And the control of the working methods of companies that remove asbestos is inadequate. On the website of the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate, it is stated that this inspection actively addresses unsafe situations at work. The PVV wants the Secretary of State to know the capacity with which they do so. For we have just heard that these are only eight people. Asbestos experts also find that the Inspection hardly controls SZW. This is also the reason why the Certification and Inspection Institute has been set up, an independent administrative body that can issue certificates to companies that remove asbestos. The big problem here is that the earning model also consists of the certificates it issues. And you never bite the hand that feeds you; that's how it works here. The research function certification systems asbestos comes with the same conclusion. For a CKI there is a financial dependence on the companies it certify. If these companies do not get what they want, they simply threaten to switch to another CKI. This situation is completely unacceptable. The PVV finds it undesirable that the CKI, appointed by the Inspection SZW, itself is financially entirely dependent on the companies it is required to control. As an independent administrative body, the CKI can quickly turn a blind eye to safety, not to lose customers. This situation must be brought to an end as soon as possible. The PVV achieves noises that in some cases a CKI wants to maintain, but that is not allowed by imposed restrictive rules. A heard example was when two employees of an asbestos company walked on a roof without fall protection and a CKI could not mention this, because this case should be covered by the Inspection SZW. The PVV finds this way of inspecting unworkable. Either you give a CKI the authority to report and intervene on this, or you have the SZW inspected really well, but then you also have to free up capacity for that. The PVV wants to hear from the Secretary of State what solution it sees for this. Certification and control of occupational safety are not the only problems in the asbestos industry that the government cannot control. The way in which the asbestos industry has been able to write its own rules often leads to unnecessarily high costs and a brake on innovation. Take an example that a director of the housing corporation called Talis: a sudden change in the rules led to an additional cost of no less than €200,000. However, the new rules were not necessary and were later reversed. If you're a duped, you're gonna feel like you're kidding. Mr. Chairman. Another example is windowsills with asbestos. The TNO research and consultancy firm finds that the asbestos released by these windowsills is negligible. However, these windowsills fall into the one-after-highest hazard class. The PVV therefore wants to know from the Secretary of State why this is so. The PVV also wants to know why innovative ideas, such as those of FoamShield, cannot be recognised nationally. This company works with foam to bind asbestos fibres, which can make more extreme safety measures unnecessary. It could even make two-thirds cheaper. Is this nonsense, or have we become so hesitant about the subject of asbestos that we beat innovation to death for fear? Mr President, in conclusion. The PVV insists on good safety in the workplace. The inability of the government to control the asbestos industry leads to unsafe situations with high risks for workers. In doing so, the great influence of the asbestos industry on making the rules leads to arbitrary, unnecessarily high costs and a loss of innovation. That is why we call on the Secretary of State, one, to ensure that the issuing of certificates is not a form of revenue for the designated body, two, to ensure that control bodies actually have the necessary powers and three, to examine whether the way in which the rules are implemented in the asbestos sector could not be better placed with a body that has no financial involvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u31	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Renkema from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u32	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Aartsen of the VVD for today's maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Every year 500 new cases of lung cancer are identified in the Netherlands. That's an assassin who only shows up after years. Working unprotected with asbestos significantly increases the risk of this disease. This makes it, to a large extent, also an occupational disease. Asbestos reorganisation can be extremely risky for the safety and health of workers. Mr. Chairman. What does not make it easier to remove asbestos is the risk classification used in the industry, with those different classes. The boundary between Class 1 and 2 is defined by 2,000 fibres per m. Under this limit, work may be carried out by a non-certified company. Above the border, a certified asbestos removal company must carry out the work, with a lot of additional comprehensive protection measures. This line seems pretty rigid to me. Between those risk classes 1 and 2, there may be several shades of grey. Are the rulers prepared to have a more differentiated regime investigated, depending on the situation, which means should be used precisely to clean up safely? Mr. Chairman. This week, the NIS headlined: protection against asbestos is in many cases superfluous. De Volkskrant also came out with the news that such an approach.... we know them all: the men with white suits... with asbestos is simply exaggerated. The investigation on which these messages are based was carried out by TNO and a number of other parties. I've studied it. The investigation is a lot more nuanced than what we see in the press. I do not think that reporting is helpful for the sense of urgency in the safe removal of asbestos, both among citizens and in the industry. My question is whether the rulers are prepared to respond publicly to this. Mr. Chairman. The industry itself also has homework. It appears that almost 30% of asbestos-sanitating companies do not comply with all the rules. Still, those CKIs aren't gonna intervene. Are the rulers prepared to have the effectiveness of the current supervisory structure evaluated independently by Ascert, the CKIs, the environmental services and the inspection of the aircraft? Mr. Chairman. How is it possible that Aedes, possibly the largest contractor for the asbestos removal industry, and the organisations representing this sector are directly opposed to each other? The housing corporations have a very important task, especially in view of our ambition that there should no longer be a roof with asbestos in the Netherlands after 2024. But they blame Ascert and the two certification bodies for imposing unnecessarily strict requirements and commercial interests. How do the directors view this stalemate between an important client and the performers? What role do they see for themselves in this? GroenLinks supports the improvements described by the Secretary of State in her letter of last September. I have the following question on the basis of that letter. What is the status of this proposed validation and innovation point? Mr. Chairman. After 2024 we want no more asbestos-containing roofs in the Netherlands. That is an enormous ambition that we have expressed. There are already huge staff shortages. Could other expert companies also be able to carry out less risky asbestos remodelling? Are the directors willing to work on, for example, a specific roof certificate that could also be obtained by companies other than certified asbestos repairers? Are they willing to engage with construction organisations and workers' organisations in order to investigate this and also support the necessary development activities for such a roof certificate? I'll come to a conclusion. GroenLinks considers it important to ensure a safe working environment for all and that the ambitious target for 2024 does not lead to unnecessary risks being taken with workers' health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u33	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr von Martels from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u34	Thank you, Mr President. For my part, too, congratulations to Mr Aartsen of the VVD for his maiden speech and his clear contribution. Then there's the asbestos file. We too are here today without any risk, because even now and here we are dealing with asbestos fibres in the air. There are no less than 57 harmful asbestos fibres in the air per tub. Knowing that we all breathe eleven cubs of air and exhale a day, we come to some decent number. I do not want to trivialize the risks, but asbestos fibres are always present and everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u35	Do you advise us all to take such a approach here in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u36	I advise everyone to take the right measures. So that's what my call is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u37	The Bureau is willing to buy 150, I just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u38	But let's get to the bottom of it, Mr. Chairman. There's a letter, there's a report and there's the sounds from the practice. The Secretary of State's letter concludes with the correct conclusion: "I really want to put risks at the centre and make new innovations available quickly. Wherever I can, I want to offer space and simplify. For example, I want to ensure good protection of workers while at the same time providing scope for innovation and cost management." Beautiful words which, however, should not be new, because years ago we could have already said these phrases. Why is there still far too little visible? Then the report Insights for proportional asbestos policy was published. Doubts about the efficiency and cost of the current asbestos system were again clearly revealed. The question is, however, how this research relates to the so-called "exposure study" commissioned by the Ministry of IenW. TNO is also involved in this. When are the results of this study expected? Or has this investigation become redundant? In the asbestos dossier we are dealing with two ministries: IenW and Social Affairs and Employment. That is why there are two State Secretarys present. Is this why a number of things are not being taken up vigorously? Who's in charge now? And then there's the sector itself. Despite the Secretary of State's letter, they continue to stir. Maybe they don't know enough about this letter? Or is it more about the pace of repacking? In short, I'm not satisfied. The approach needs to be more dynamic. The CDA wants concrete proposals on innovation and cost efficiency before the summer. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? Innovation often contributes to the fact that things can happen smarter and for less money. And now I understand that the Secretary of State abolishes a commission and establishes a VIP, a Validation and Innovation Point. This sounds like an instrumental solution. How is it prevented that this new point does not fall into the same pitfalls as the committee? And how is the Secretary of State really going to ensure that innovations can actually start quickly? When will the VIP be operational? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to combating unnecessary costs, it is also about assessing the real risks of asbestos reduction. Standard is the risk class 2. There is a lot of commentary on this in the sector, and I understand that. Aren't we condescending to too many unnecessary things for a small risk? For let us not forget that all kinds of security measures must also be taken in risk class 1. In current policy, the presence and not the risk of exposure of asbestos determines the use of protection measures. Furthermore, I think it is good that there is sufficient market forces. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the ACM has ever looked at price formation in this market? What have the considerations been to do or not do this? The VVD asked about this, too. The First Chamber rightly also has the necessary reservations about asbestos policy. How will the Secretary of State respond to this, by adapting the regulations? That's my input, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u39	Very nice. One more question from Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u40	I can only hear the CDA say that there should be 'less, less, less': control measures, security measures and all that sort of thing. But how do you see the importance...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u41	How does Mr von Martels see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u42	How does Mr von Martels see the importance of apology, President-in-Office of the Council, of workers' health?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u43	I'm not saying it should be "less, less." All I'm saying is that we need to assess the risks well based on the exposure risks that exist. We must not only take measures by saying that there is asbestos, so it must be classified into risk class 2 immediately. Now let's see how big the risks are, and then figure out how far we can go. And very often it can be done with fewer measures than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u44	Does Mr von Martels think that more should be done to ensure the safety of workers? And if so, what then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u45	Workers' safety is now well secured, and it must always be at the forefront. This is also an essential requirement with us: you must be aware of the fact that workers should never be exposed to major risks. So that must remain at the forefront. But that doesn't mean that you can't come up with another policy. We need to offer more innovative opportunities, and we also need to realise whether we are dealing with risk class 1 or risk class 2, because in risk class 1 in particular, you can achieve the same result with the same safety features at less cost. And that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u46	I have now, of course, looked up the result of the vote on that motion from the PVV. You did vote against...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mr von Martels has that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mr Von Martels and the CDA did vote against. It is remarkable, however, that you now wish to correct your contribution to the level of risk, but that you voted against the PVV motion. Can you give me an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u49	Can Mr von Martels do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u50	Can Mr von Martels give me an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u51	I will probably have to do the same as Mr Van Dijk: I need to look at the definition of the motion and whether you are right. Just now you were wrong, so let's not run the risk of you getting it wrong again. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u52	Mr President, the PVV is absolutely not wrong in this case. I've just gotten the results of the vote. The CDA, including Mr von Martels, has voted against and the operative part is completely clear: just clean up on the basis of risks. Then you can get 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u53	Well, we'll check it again, but you've heard my input and you know what I stand for...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mr Van Aalst has heard my input...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u55	...and that's leading today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u56	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Stoffer of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u57	Mr. Chairman. You just referred to Ash Wednesday. When I met some CDA colleagues last night, they asked me if I was going to get a cross for AsWednesday before the asbestos debate. Well, that's not the tradition for SGPs at all, so I don't. I did a little digging into that last night, and I thought there was one thing I liked. When you reach that cross, the priest says to you, "Remember, man, that you are dust and will return to dust." It's always good to think about that. Before I really start this debate, I would like to congratulate Mr Aartsen on his maiden speech. It was a nice speech, and I think you're gonna be just fine. You're okay. Then the asbestos itself. That asbestos is a major cause for concern for our society. Municipalities struggle with asbestos incidents and farmers with the high cost of compulsory asbestos remodelling. The question is: how do we get security and the sense of reality as close together as possible? I see three problems which are interrelated and which I would like to consider. First of all, there is insufficient consideration of exposure in practice. Yesterday, TNO's report and other experts published on this subject. Indeed, as has already been said, moon men do not always have to be sent to buildings. Take, for example, those windows of asbestos which Mr Van Aalst has just spoken about. Measurements showed that with limited precautions there are hardly any risks left. However, those windowsills are still not in that low risk class. My question is how that is possible. The Secretary of State exudes that she does want to, but that the field of work must determine this. That is, in our view, the reversed world. Secondly, there is little room for innovative methods of rehabilitation. There are now, for example, pilot projects which place a kind of foam layer on asbestos roofs. Measurements show that there is hardly any release of asbestos fibres. And then those expensive rules are just not necessary. How is it possible that such an innovation is still being held back by the certification manager, which is a difficult word "inspection' and "inspection'? At the same time, that brings me to the third bottleneck that I would like to raise. The definition of the rules is increasingly left to private parties, i.e. the Ascert management foundation. I refer to the changes to the Arbo scheme by the end of 2018 which would enter into force on 1 April. At first, the Reich was still responsible for these general certification rules and the field of work was allowed to do the technical impact. Now everything is moved to certification schemes to be established by the workplace. I question that, big questions. A. Why does the Secretary of State do this when her policy letter on the asbestos system has not even been discussed by the Chamber? B. Part of the field of work aims to protect existing interests and is not open to renewal. Then why is the definition of rules being extended further to the field of work? I'm really curious about that. And then C. Is it true that these new rules do not comply with the European rules that will enter into force by 2020, because the new certification scheme has not been fully approved by the Accreditation Board? Mr President, how can we proceed? The policy letter also contains really good points of reference. It sounded a bit critical, but there are really good things in it. I ask the rulers to continue with the review of the asbestos system. The risk classes should be refined and the classification should be based on the actual exposure. There should be room for innovative working methods with scrutiny by, for example, TNO and advice by an independent innovation committee. The Empire must then ensure that these innovations are given real space and not leave them to work. I would say: give room for innovative certification schemes and a partial certificate of asbestos roof renovation. I'm asking the Secretary of State to adapt the working conditions to this. And then there's the work trunks. The SGP has previously argued with the support of the Chamber for easing the rules for the use of work boxes on cranes, but my clog broke when I heard that this is still not settled. Why not? I'd love some action. Finally, and then I really am at the conclusion. Let me remind you of two huge tasks. Firstly, the clean-up of asbestos roofs by 2024. For us it may be a little later, but as a room we have said that it should be. In addition, the sustainability of the built environment. As far as we are concerned, the government is unbelievable if this is frustrated by stopping innovative methods of rehabilitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u58	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Aartsen. I heard a combination of fries and wine. I'm gonna stick with that, but that's gonna be on me. But welcome to the House, too, because we have already discussed the swords in a very moderate manner before in general. To agree with each other is also very nice in politics. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about asbestos today. This is a rather abrupt transition; I admit it immediately. A murderer, said Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I think that's the right summary, considering that in 2016, too, 1,200 people died from exposure in the past by working with asbestos. That is, of course, a terrifyingly high number, which shows that we do not have all those very strict rules up to and including the moon suits for nothing. In all my questions as to whether this is still entirely appropriate from time to time, the starting point for my group is always that security should always be at the forefront. The reason for this debate is almost forgotten; I am looking at Mr Van Kent's report in Trouw that the government gets so little control over this industry. I would like to go back to that and start with it. When I read the letter from the Secretary of State, which indeed contains many directions that I can support, I am left at a slightly higher level of abstraction with the question of whether it is possible to strengthen that grip. Where is the Secretary of State's trust designed to say that will really happen? I have to say that, however much I feel that the measures generally go in the right direction, the concern I have about this is not gone away. If I may mention one, we've talked a lot about the CKIs. They are often financially dependent on the companies they certify. In my view, this is still the case. I am not arguing for a completely different system here at once, but I think this is really a risk. It has also been highlighted by a number of previous speakers, especially at the beginning of the list of speakers. How does the Secretary of State see that we can actually solve that? Is her solution sufficient for that problem? As a number of colleagues have said, it is a very special market. It is not just my group that thinks that this is the case. It is a hard conclusion from the research firm Tauw himself, which has looked at the laws and regulations for the Secretary of State. The second question I have is whether we can offer enough customization. We do indeed have totally opposite views, Mr Renkema said it from the one hand the housing corporations, based on reports from TNO, a highly respected institute, and on the other hand the asbestos-removal sector when it comes to whether it is possible to give a little more space in a number of places: a little more customization, a little more zoom in, where you always guarantee safety where it is needed, but perhaps sometimes you can also offer a lot more space. Then there are all examples, from windowsills to cement pipes. I am very reluctant to set a certain course in this. I really don't think that's up to us. This seems to me to be the ultimate question: can it or can it not be safe and otherwise? How does the Secretary of State view this debate with very diametrically opposed views? How does it assess the report of TNO, among others? Does she see any additional space there to offer some more customization in a safe way? Mr. Chairman. One question that occurred to me in preparing for this debate is how other countries actually do it. It seems to me that the danger of working with asbestos or removing an asbestos window bench, whether it be Aachen, Antwerp or Almere, is the same. How are we actually doing with other countries? We've rigged a very special system. A lot has left the government by now. I share the concern with Mr Stoffer who said that it goes very far; I know almost no sector where it goes so far. How do other countries do this? Where does the Secretary of State base the confidence that innovation in the sector, which is one of the reasons why it does not want to go to a licensing system, will be given sufficient opportunity with its measures? After all, it is a sector with a limited number of players and financial interests that occasionally runs through it. Is this enough? Questions have already been asked about part certificates for roofs. Could that be possible? Is that safe? There is a huge task for the coming years. I would like to join the previous questions. Finally, I have a question about the inspection. There is eight FTE available. Can we do it with that? My final question, if you will allow me, Mr. President. I understand that as a ministry, Social Affairs does not own SMA-rt and that Ascert almost refuses to implement what politics wants and that there really is little control. The Secretary of State wants to look at a repositioning of the instrument in the future. Could she say a little more about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u60	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. The Secretary of State has asked for 20 minutes' reflection. I think that's a long time, but let's go. Shall we agree that you will come here immediately if the egg has been laid earlier, so that we can start immediately? Then I'll suspend for 20 minutes or less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u61	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contributions. First of all, let me explain how we are going to do this together. There's basically a division of control. I am therefore right to answer Mr von Martels' question. SZW is responsible for the safe removal of asbestos. IenW is responsible for the source approach in the living environment. That will also be the line of how we answer the questions. A lot of questions have been asked to me. In our view, there are a little less questions for the Secretary of State of IenW. If that turns out to be different, of course we would like to hear it. After a general introduction, I would like to say something about matters that I have classified. The block "monitoring" includes questions about Ascert, the inspection SZW, the number of FTEs and the evaluation. Then there will be a block of "innovation" which includes roof certificates, sub-certificates and windowsills. Finally, I have a few other questions. The question of logistics, and now the matter of content. We are discussing an important issue today. People are still dying from high exposure to asbestos during their work in the past. Several MPs have used the term "sneak killer." I think this is quite right, because it could take 30 to 40 years for diseases caused by exposure to asbestos fibres to appear. Fortunately, safe and healthy working with asbestos has been better and better secured in recent years. At the same time, there are still bottlenecks in the system. I sent a letter to the Chamber at the end of September with a number of improvements to the system. Before that, I spoke with a lot of parties, both inside and outside the certified asbestos world. The media have recently published critical articles which state that the asbestos rules are too strict. As a result, many clean-up operations would be unnecessarily complex and costly. Those signals are familiar to me. I've been to work at a residential complex that's being thoroughly renovated. If you then walk through it and see to what extent the walls need to be made before you are sure that all the fibers are out, then that is quite impressive. That also has consequences for the residents. At the same time, as far as I am concerned, the concern for the workers is at the top. I also see a playing field in which people are all active in the field of asbestos, but often also in opposition to each other. We have also noticed this in the discussions that led to the letter I sent you in September, although it was in a good atmosphere. There are a lot of different interests, although I would also like to stress that here everyone agrees with the importance of the safety of working with asbestos. That's what needs to be done. Asbestos removal must be carried out safely and the health and safety of the worker is paramount. At the same time, asbestos removal should not be unnecessarily expensive and complex. The basis for a responsible approach to asbestos removal is important, and that is not what is important if clients feel that they have to pay too much and that unnecessary actions need to be taken. See here the recipe for a number of dilemmas, because how do we ensure good protection for workers, while at the same time ensuring acceptable costs and a simpler way of working? How do we ensure that there is room for innovation without letting the reins celebrate irresponsiblely? These are also the dilemmas that I felt I should address in the letter I sent to the Chamber in September. I have tried to make a number of substantial improvements to the system. In doing so, I am opting for a risk-oriented asbestos policy that will enable us to deal with these dilemmas as effectively as possible. In that letter, particular attention has been paid to the enforcement capacity of many MPs today, as well as to the clarity of rules, but also to the scope for innovation and cost control. It is not for nothing that I said in that letter that we are opting for a careful asbestos policy. I have noticed that the use of words when it comes to matters that affect security is very close. With 'careful asbestos policy', I would like to point out that the safety of the people working with asbestos is paramount and that at the same time we are looking for this innovation, but always safety first. A report was issued earlier this week and a number of Members of Parliament asked me to reply. That report has a number of points of view. I would like to respond to this on the basis of my responsibility for working conditions, and perhaps the Secretary of State for IenW wants to do so from the point of view of its policy. In any case, I have taken an interest in this report. It gives real substance to thinking and I also appreciate the contribution to dialogue. The report, I would like to put, is largely in line with my commitment to a careful asbestos policy. But I also have an important comment to make on the report, because it calculates health risks. This shows that in many cases these risks are fortunately very limited. In that sense, one could say that in those cases it is not necessary to take very far-reaching and unnecessarily expensive management measures. That is something that fits in with my commitment, namely space where it can be given the risks where it can be done. But only where it can be done, because once again I cannot put enough emphasis on the safety and health of workers. The costs are then included, and that is something I would like to leave on behalf of the researchers, because I do not use the maximum value of an employee's life as a policy of occupational health. The Arbo policy I am pursuing is based on the acceptable risk that people may run, the risk that we may find acceptable with each other. In any case, I believe that workers should be well protected from the risks of asbestos. As far as I am concerned, the costs involved, for example, in the purchase of a mask, are not so much involved, especially if you see that these costs represent only a fraction of the overall picture that employers have to deal with. I say it again very explicitly to Mr Van Kent and Mr Renkema: the answer to the question of whether the safety and health of workers are in place is yes. That is what I wrote in the letter in September, and that is what I am now saying in the Chamber. Whoever works must be able to assume that it is going to be safe and sound. The protection of workers and residents may not be surrendered. I want to be very clear about that, and I do see scope for a risk-oriented policy when we take measures that match the risk. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of innovation, because that often also means that you can deal with those risks in a different way. A number of groups have asked about working in the risk class, and whether you could do so in a smarter way. For example, could you also work with part certificates or roof certificates, and how does it work with different things? Let me start with the way things are positioned. We're going, more than we are now, to look at the state of science to see what's responsible to do. Since the field can be divided and you can look at an issue from different perspectives, I think it is important to have the state of science leading here. That also means that we are going to reposition the instrument SMA-rt. That instrument is now invested at Ascert. TNO, SZW and Ascert all played a role in the creation of the current SMA-rt. That doesn't make that ownership clear. But if we start to work more risk-driven, this instrument will also be repositioned. This includes clear agreements on tasks, responsibilities and decision-making powers, which also secure independence. I say this in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg. The purpose of this is that there is no direct influence of one party throughout the field on the content, so that you can rule out that a particular interest is going to play the leading role. If this state of science can then be the main factor in dealing with asbestos removal in a specific case, you can also look at the risk class in a different way. The VVD and GroenLinks asked about the differentiation in the risk class classification. That's what I'd like to take a look at. Now there are actually two possible situations. If the expected exposure is lower than the limit values, you are in risk class 1 and that means that the risk is so low that we accept it. But even so, the rules are that you need to be able to work safely in this risk class. The second possibility is that the efficacy is above it. Then it's risk class 2. In that case, there are many additional requirements, such as certified works and independent final measurement. In risk class 2, it does not currently matter whether there is limited or very high exposure. You always have to take the complete protective measures. I have indicated that I want to make more risk-oriented assumptions, including by SMA-rt, which we were just talking about, more risk-driven. Then you can differentiate between situations where strict measures are needed, and situations where it can be less. But I keep coming back to it: that everything must be based on information about the actual risk according to science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u63	Thank you for the words of the Secretary of State. I'm just looking for a way to make that risk-driven approach concrete. How are we going to do that in the future in the case of roof renovations, for example? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for the risk management of these roof renovations? Where we now assume risk class 2, a large number of roofs may fall into risk class 1 in the future. How are we going to put that into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u64	In general, I can say this about this: if science shows that risk class 1 is sufficient, but, as with the windows at present, there are still concerns in the industry that it cannot be properly secured, in the current situation it does not go to risk class 1, but remains in risk class 2 because Ascert directs it. In the future situation, we want to ensure that the state of science determines this, that it is secured, inter alia by the role of TNO in this, and that SZW can also do so directly. That's the repositioning of Ascert. I expect that we will be able to achieve this with a few months' results. If it is specifically about roof certificates, it could actually be. I also intend to look at the feasibility of introducing a dedicated roof certificate. Because there is a great deal of work to be done, it is widely stated from the sector: can we specialise in this? If TNO's research shows that there are possibilities for this, then I also want the schematic manager to include this in the schematic. In this way, we introduce the possibility of doing so more quickly on two fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u65	Suppose I have a roof that I have to clean. Is it better to wait until next year because science is so far away that one can say: then perhaps it can be done in risk class 1? It can't be done now, but if I wait a little longer, will the costs be reduced? What am I supposed to do if I'm gonna clean the roof? What's your advice on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u66	I give my answer on the basis of my responsibility for employees. We have made the asbestos policy for workers so that people can be exposed to asbestos fibres for several years, several hours a day. So that is different than, for example, if you do that as a private person. So I cannot answer that question so much. Now there are pilots. Here too, we must always work on the state of science and monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u67	A maiden interruption by Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u68	At that same point. The Secretary of State states that she would like to reposition SMA-rt and thus also want more differentiation in the allocation to those risk classes. But is it about the lead to those high-risk classes? Or is the Secretary of State prepared to consider whether there could be much more differentiation within those risk classes, so that it is not either risk class 1 or risk class 2 and it can be more focused on the specific situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u69	I am honoured by this interruption by Mr Aartsen during the debate on his maiden speech, which I congratulate him most warmly. As far as I am concerned, the answer is both. The scheme itself should be clearer and it should be possible to innovate more quickly if the state of science so indicates, but I also think that it should be possible within that risk-sharing to see if there is a differentiation in it. So I'd like to promise him right away that I'd like to look at both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u70	I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment. In her letter she states that it is purely and exclusively the roof certificate. So please ask the Secretary of State to further inform us about what differentiation is applied in the risk classification. Is that sec, purely a 1 or 2 certificate or do we really get a broad palette specifically focused on the different categories that may be possible, based, of course, on the state of science?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u71	The latter is leading. In doing so, we should look at developments in the state of science. We shouldn't let the structure we've got now be leading. If it turns out that there is differentiation in it and that that is even useful, then we have to do so. I want us to be able to do this more from the public domain, so that if a balance of interests is required in the field, it can continue to be done there. The measures in the letter I sent in September are also aimed at taking a number of steps to ensure much more that this is actually done on the basis of the content. Mr President, I know you're always off the clock. In any case, I have already dealt with a number of questions in the debate on the asbestos windows and roof and partial certificates. Let's talk about the Validation and Innovation Point. Is it VIP, also asked Mr von Martels, not actually old wine in new bags? There was a committee, that committee goes away, now there's a VIP; then what's the difference? The committee Mr von Martels mentioned was set up a few years ago. It has actually started as a pilot, based on the need for an independent window that also assesses whether new working methods and techniques comply with current legislation and regulations. Based on Tauw's research and what's going on in the field, I looked at this pilot in the policy response. What is being said, in particular, from the field, is that the lead times for applications are perceived as extremely long. People feel that there is a reluctance towards the committee. On the contrary, we want innovation to be encouraged. That is what the Validation and Innovation Point should do. It must function independently and be able to make a quick and unambiguous decision on this new approach. I also want the evaluation of new methods of reorganisation to be subject to fixed and transparent procedures, and to be organised close to the public authorities, because public control must also be guaranteed here in particular. Mr Renkema asked for this too. He asked: what is the situation with the Validation and Innovation Point? At the end of last year RIVM was commissioned to set up the VIP. Discussions have now been held with TNO, the Inspection SZW and other parties in the field. This exploration is currently being worked out in concrete terms in an installation proposal. That's what I expect this spring, so really in the short term. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked about monitoring. Mr Stoffer asked whether we would not give out all the influence on the certification schemes to Ascert, and the supervision of the schemes to the private certification institutions. I hope I can reassure him by replying klip-and-ready no. SZW can still decide whether we consider it in the public interest for companies or individuals to have a certificate. To this end, we will discuss the content of the schematics with the management foundation. If SZW disagrees with the schematics, no schedule will be published. It was, and it's gonna stay that way. It is the Minister of SZW who has the schematics published in the Official Journal. In addition, the schedules are also assessed by the Public Accreditation Board. In addition, the Inspection SZW also supervises the certification institutions. Apart from that, the SZW Inspection also monitors the rules for employers in the Arbo Decision regarding asbestos inventory and asbestos removal. Therefore, there is also an exchange of information between the Inspection SZW and the certifying institutions. Then Mr Renkema asked: shouldn't we start evaluating that too? I think you should always keep a finger on the wrist to make sure you're okay. I also think that, on the basis of the Tauw report, we found that a number of things were not going well. At the same time, in September, I sent a letter containing a number of measures to the Chamber. With this we would like to take a number of steps. I think it would be a good idea to ensure that these steps are taken before we can actually evaluate them, because I want it to be more standardized with science and more public organisation, that supervision becomes more unambiguous and that people also simply know that safety is at the top. I would therefore not be in favour of an evaluation at the moment, because I would like to begin by taking those steps to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u72	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State about that. I asked whether the system would not even deserve an external evaluation. I hear the Secretary of State say that she has made all kinds of proposals for improvement, namely those eight points in the letter of September. That also supports GroenLinks; we see the necessary ambition in that. But do I understand now that such an evaluation is at some point not excluded by the Secretary of State, but that she just doesn't want to do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u73	No, I don't think you should ever rule out an evaluation. I have taken a number of steps, but I have also said myself: if all this does not work, then I will also be able to work with, for example, a recognition system. That means we need to keep an eye on the place anyway. That also seems to me right given the relevance of what is before us. But I find a formal evaluation too short a day at the moment, because there is so much movement now to make some improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u74	I understand. But is the Secretary of State prepared, looking at the ambitions and measures, to mention a year in which such an evaluation can be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u75	Let me come back to that in second place. Mr Van Kent asked about the capacity of the inspection. Several MPs referred to that as well. He said: there are only eight people able to do those inspections, but can't that be much anymore? I can at least reassure you: it is more than 8 fte, it is currently 15 fte. In addition, in the framework of the additional means of inspection included in the government agreement, we have an extension on the basis of the risks and the risk-driven work. So that's going to increase. I do agree with you: if you sell it against the number of organisations or the number of roofs there is, then you have to handle the inspection capacity very cleverly. Asbestos is one of the priority programmes. Capacity has therefore also increased in recent years. We work together with the regulators of the environmental services to make the overall supervision of the clean-up work bigger than you could expect only looking at the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u76	I think the difference between those 15 and the eight might be in that those eight are the ones actually going out to check. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? And can it indicate to what extent the number of FTEs is going to grow? Especially with the removal of all these asbestos roofs, there will of course be much more asbestos work in the coming years. What is about, broadly speaking, the target in terms of number of FTE?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u77	I can't say that last one. As far as I'm concerned, we're growing to whatever it takes. In recent years asbestos has been a priority programme. So we had to expand on that. We did. We have also indicated in the enforcement strategy that we will continue to do so in the coming years. There is also cooperation with the environmental services. It is also not said that everyone should always be outside, because also through data analysis or in other ways of working indirectly you can see where to go. I am not concerned about how much FTE there is, but whether the number is sufficient. At the moment, in the current system, I consider it sufficient. In doing so, the employer or the client is responsible for a good working method and checks the inspection. I know that I disagree with Mr Van Kent on the system we have. For example, we do not have a licensing system. You'd have another inspection on that, too. In the current system, I believe that capacity is sufficient at the moment. I say: if more is needed, I will work towards it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u78	This is not entirely in line with the practice in which we see that asbestos repairers on a large scale are violating the rules and thereby endangering the safety of workers. So about whether it's sufficient, I'm thinking completely different from the Secretary of State. In other words, isn't there a problem already? Shouldn't much more capacity already be released to control these roughly 300 asbestos repairers? In many cases it is cowboys who are sorry that I have to use this word for that, and there is also a proper check-up and sufficient inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u79	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to say the following. I have heard several times in the debate 'the system is rotten', 'it is no good', 'no grip' and 'no direction'. And now again, cowboys. Let me be very clear. If clients or employers knowingly and knowingly do so even if they do so unconsciously, because they should better know to expose people to risks which could make them sick from their work 30 to 40 years after that, I find that unacceptable and unacceptable and I will do everything I can to ensure that this does not happen. At the same time, I say the following. When does a system work? I don't care about the system. It's about the people. When does it work? If it is intrinsically motivated. So what do you want? I want an industry in which people understand why we apply the rules we apply, in which they give protection equipment to their people on their own and in which they do what is necessary. You do this by working together with the industry, with the employees and with the clients, and despite the different interests behind it, watching how we're going to do it. Then the asbestos industry is strong, but not so big that people don't know each other, and you can also have these discussions at the table. In combination with a robust inspection, which I am willing to extend further if necessary, I think this is a good way to meet this safety requirement. I'm saying that all the more so because I know your illegality is gonna work if you push the rules too far or make it too expensive. And no one wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u80	I would almost like to ask: does the Secretary of State remember my question? My question was not about the story she is telling. My question was about the following. It's a mess now. This is evident from numerous reports; I mentioned the Court of Auditors and Tauw. It goes wrong in many cases, unfortunately, and the Secretary of State actually says: yes, but there is nothing wrong, it is good as it is now, there are enough inspectors and workers are protected enough. And then she comes up with a story about intrinsic motivation, rules and costs and I know what. No, unfortunately, the rules we have are currently not being complied with in many cases, so we need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u81	I have indicated, also in my introduction, that good steps have been taken and that we have a good basis, and that things are not going well on a number of points. I think that's something else to say: it's a mess. Mr Van Weyenberg asked what it was like in other countries. I dare say that we have done very well in the Netherlands on many fronts. Are there any improvements possible? Yes, I do, and I'd like to be very hard on that, too. This is a balance of interest in the whole picture, and I have also mentioned the safety and protection of the worker against Mr Van Kent, who is very good at fighting for it. But I don't think it's a mess. In doing so, we are doing a great deal of injustice to employers, entrepreneurs and workers who fight day in and day out for the safe removal of asbestos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u82	I will continue on this point, because I do share the conclusion of my colleague from the SP. Debris may be a big word and there are also asbestos repairers who do their job very well, but I do think there is also a very large part of it that is screwing up in that industry. And there are a lot of cowboys out there. I waited a while before I came forward, Mr President, but I do feel that the Secretary of State doesn't really see that urgency. We have discussed in detail with the Secretary of State for IenW the enormous task that lies ahead, and if this Secretary of State now concludes that there is actually not so much going on. We are going to take care of that for a while, then I have the feeling that we are having a completely different debate. There is a lot going on in this sector and something really needs to be done. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she understands the urgency of the matter that there are a lot of problems in this sector at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u83	Yeah, I see a lot of challenges and bottlenecks. That is why I have taken very clear measures, such as the drawing of supervision towards the public sector by determining the state of science for the certification schemes and not the gremium where the clients and the industry sit together. That is where we see obstacles. I also strengthen the Validation and Innovation Point. These are major steps which actually safeguard the public interest and also the interests of the workers. So I see that urgency. I like to radiate that, too. And at the same time, looking at the steps that have been taken, I don't think we can say it's a mess now. There are a lot of improvement points possible and also absolutely necessary and I certainly will not say that there are no cowboys. In fact, I find that unacceptable, and I'm doing everything I can to get them, so they can't do that anymore. But we are now taking real steps to make improvements in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u84	The PVV still has some doubts about this, especially in view of the huge report on the ban on asbestos roofs that is coming. And whether it's 8 or 15 fte, I don't feel like we're in any control of what's happening in the market right now. I don't feel like we're gonna solve this before 2024. I like that the Secretary of State indicates that she sees the urgency of it, that she stands in front of it and that she wants to radiate it, but I don't really see it coming back yet. I hope that the Secretary of State is going to make it a little more concrete what she is going to do in this sector and how hard she is going to hit the table and say: this has to be over and I just want those cowboys out of this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u85	Let's talk about the situation on the playing field. The Inspection SZW maintains at the end of the chain. The better you've organized it at the beginning of the chain, the smarter you can put it in at the end. I would also point out that if more is needed, we will also do more. But the smarter you do it at the beginning, the more you let science determine what is possible and what is needed. The more you see in terms of acceptance that an industry and clients themselves want to be involved, the smarter that can be at the end. Perhaps the Secretary of State for IenW will also comment on the asbestos roofs. My speech focuses on those workers who are working on asbestos removal day in and day out. Perhaps this is a different story from one-off removals in the case of a company or a private individual. This has to do with the fact that we agreed with each other that long-term exposure to asbestos fibres, several hours a day, should remain under a certain standard. Hence also the protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u86	I'm gonna keep looking, 'cause there's still too much going wrong. I think everyone agrees on this. Then the answer is: only intrinsic motivation. I take it the Secretary of State didn't mean it like that. You make the rules just for the group that doesn't do it well by itself and you maintain the rules also for the group that doesn't do it well by itself. Now it was about the Labour Inspectorate. The Secretary of State knows I'll come forward more often. She says, "If it takes more, it comes." But I see a peak in work over the next few years, including the asbestos roofs. I would like to be able as a Chamber to assess whether the capacity is there that is needed. What does the Secretary of State base on the fact that capacity is now sufficient in its view? How does she keep track of that? How can she take us as a room in that trade-off? I understand that there is also concern among colleagues about the peak over the coming years. And only the answer that comes with more when it's enough is extraordinary for us... I fully trust the Secretary of State, but not just her blue eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u87	Bruingroen, chairman. As far as I'm concerned, it's and-and. I'm not from yesterday either. I think intrinsic motivation and investment in support work best, and you have to guarantee it. You have to make sure that there's just a lot of maintenance where people throw hats at those rules, just because it's about people's health. So as far as I'm concerned, it's and-and. I can't stress that enough. We have made a proposal to the Chamber for inspection capacity. This has been established on the basis of the risk analysis of how we are going to use the resources. I've had it recorded that after two years we're going to see if we're doing the right thing and if it's enough. So the midterm review is written in Dutch, so that we can do the monitoring and see if it is sufficient. We are also in contact with each other, particularly in view of the problem of rooftops, partly in the light of the legislation we have dealt with recently, or that remains sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u88	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm a little hesitant. Look, I get that we have some kind of framework through which the SZW inspection assesses where the inspectors are most needed. However, as far as I am concerned, could the Secretary of State indicate in a brief note that it is confident that this will be enough for this sector, especially in the next few years. I don't want to mess with FTEs, but if anyone asks me why I think it's enough, I have to admit that I can't give the answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u89	I'm still gonna see if I can turn it in. We've come from 8 fte and we've gone to 15 fte. We'd better start working together, too. We started working together more. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we need to work together to achieve a multiplier effect that we are smartly maintaining. That is enough with the expectation that I have now, together with the commitment that we will monitor it to see if it will remain adequate. But we're already coming from 8 fte and we've gone to 15 fte. Then I think we should first see if we can get out with this capacity. Mr. Chairman. I have already answered a number of questions in the interrupting debates. Mr Gijs van Dijk had received signals from situations where inspectors would not dare to carry out inspections because of the fear of contamination. In general, I can state that the inspectors of the Inspection SZW are very aware of the risks of exposure to asbestos when they carry out an inspection, because they have been instructed and also know how to act in order to take good care of their own safety and health. If they come to locations where they expect and estimate that unsafe work is being carried out and are therefore at risk of exposure to asbestos, they will stop work and distance themselves sufficiently from their work. In this way, the risk of contamination of inspectors is very low, but I do make the warm invitation to make specific signals. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, these were the questions about innovation. I have received another question about the cranes and the work boxes. Mr Stoffer asked about the state of play of the amendment to the Arbo decision. At the end of 2018, the draft commitment decision for public internet consultation was issued. That consultation has now been completed. I hope that this will enable the amending decision to be published and entered into force on 1 July. The speed depends on whether changes to the draft decision appear necessary in the various stages of publication in the Official Journal. But I can assure Mr Stoffer that we want to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u90	I am, of course, pleased that action is being taken and that steps are being taken. But does this mean that we can work with this method after 1 July? Or could that take much longer? I would like to hear a specific date, because that is what people are waiting for in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u91	As in the debate in which we discussed it earlier, I also think it is important that the state of science determines the standard. We have indicated that under certain conditions these work boxes can be used if it is not possible in any other way. It is my intention to make that possible as soon as possible under those conditions. Hopefully that's the case on July 1st. But once again, a number of steps need to be taken, which I am not going to do on my own. For example, the Internet consultation could lead to cases requiring further investigation. I just hope it can be done as soon as possible; this is my target date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u92	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer and also hope that it will be just 1 July. I understand that there may be complications, but thank you for this answer and thank you for the action that is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u93	Still a bit of clarity about the last part when it comes to the hoists. We did indeed have a discussion on this with the Secretary of State last time. Then it came across that working with the hoist could be possible in the future if there is no other option. There is, of course, always another option, but we have exchanged views in the debate that it will lead to exorbitantly high costs of clean-up. That's why there was a motion on the table to fix it with those hoists. Now I hear the Secretary of State say again: the change is coming if there is no other solution. If we go on that tour again, then we have the discussion again that this hoist will still not be possible, because it can always be different if we have to. But yes, that leads to exorbitantly high cost of clean-up, and I do not think we want any of that. So can the Secretary of State give us some clarity about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u94	The investigation showed precisely that there were situations where it could not be done without a hoistbox. That was the reason to see how we could make that possible. But working with a hoist is not on number one of the most safe ways of working. Based on what we have all discussed here this afternoon in the debate, that means that security must be the norm, that the state of science must actually determine what can be done and that the inspection will see if there is another safe way to do it. If there wasn't, there wouldn't be any hoists. But they will now be possible, and that is what we exchanged in the previous debate and what I have also done in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u95	Okay, Mr. Chairman. In any case, I welcome the clarity of the Secretary of State. We, as PVV, are not happy with this, especially when you look at the huge costs involved in people's decision to go to rehabilitation. The hoist will not be the first and the safest way, but it is definitely a very safe way to do it. In fact, I think that the Secretary of State should give more room for this, because if we want to control the cost of clean-up in this way, this is precisely such a good option. And you don't have to explain to a repairer how to use that hoist and that he needs to wear a harness and so on. He knows exactly how this works. There is always a nice and expensive other solution, which is undoubtedly safer than that hoist, but this is going to ensure that we have a rather unworkable situation and that the costs go through the roof. I can't imagine the Secretary of State being happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u96	A lot of things from the letter, which I sent to the Chamber in November, lead us to make innovation possible. That is why we are going to work in the safest way possible. And by guaranteeing the different working methods in the system I am proposing, we can now actually achieve innovation. So this is an important step for those situations where there is no alternative, but as far as I am concerned it should also be an incentive to continue looking for other and, above all, safe ways of removing asbestos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u97	I heard the Secretary of State say that when she drew up the letter of those measures, she also noticed that there were considerable conflicts of interest between the various parties. I asked a question about the stalemate between Aedes on the one hand and the housing corporations in the Netherlands, but it may still be answered. The housing corporations seem to be heading at a very different rate than the industry itself. My question was to find, as a minister, something of, as I have called it, that stalemate. Does the Minister see a role for himself in resolving that stalemate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u98	In any case, I conclude that the parties have different perspectives, but that they all share the importance of safe working. I'd like to have that marked, even in this discussion. From the client's point of view, there are, of course, quite a lot of financial interests on this issue. If you know by research that it can be just as safe in a cheaper way, you want of course to have a system that makes the new standard cheaper, but just as safe. I think that's the joint agenda. I also have confidence that the steps I have taken in the letter will ensure that this is the way to proceed; that is why I have taken them. I also think that there is enough work in this sector to avoid conflict of interest, because there is still enough work to be done in the coming period. But let the access for innovations, for example, happen in a way that the client also knows that... Let me give you an example: you could clean up those windows according to the state of science in risk class 1. But it is not possible to include those now in the field, which Ascert has to deal with, in risk class 1, because of the concerns that there are about securing the method. So it's not about standards, it's about security. That is why we have said from SZW: we want to be able to adapt the SMA-rt scheme immediately. In doing so, I am taking very significant steps, particularly to make this innovation possible and to make it possible for cheaper methods, provided that they are equally safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u99	The Secretary of State is now reacting quite substantively, but the background to my question was more of a procedural one. I am concerned, also in view of the ambition towards 2024, because the asbestos cleaner and the dome of all housing corporations in the Netherlands are actually looking at the problem so differently. Maybe something in the process will be needed to bring them back together. So I am not so much concerned with the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u100	Then I understand better. This is one of the reasons why I asked Ascert to look closely at how they unite the different interests. Ascert is also trying to make a move in that. So I have good hope that this can contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u101	I call the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u102	Mr. Chairman. The cooperation is so good that I can seamlessly connect with one more point that may have remained, specifically about asbestos roofs, market setting and whether prices are going up. A number of questions come together on this point, questions from Mr Van Dijk, Mr von Martels and Mr Aartsen. Is there enough capacity? Isn't the price going up? First of all, it is important that the cost of repairing a roof naturally depends on very different factors, such as size and technical condition, but also on the available techniques. And those things have an effect on each other: the amount of technology or techniques allowed affects the capacity there is, and the capacity there is is related to price. That is why it is important that the Secretary of State, as she has just explained in detail, really wants to offer room for innovation, so as to make more capacity available in width. The whole discussion on roof certificates, the sub-certificates, should contribute to this. We both consider it important that, where this can be done, but only where it can be done, as the Secretary of State has just indicated, it can be easier to clean up. As a result, more companies can carry out this reorganisation. Moreover, we also see many initiatives being launched such as collectives to bring down prices. So there are many factors that apply to it. In addition, TNO is currently conducting a study on the extent of exposure during the clean-up of asbestos roofs; the Secretary of State already referred to this. This study is ready for the second half of this year. All this to provide input to make the capacity as broad as possible, within the protection required for the workers. Mr. Chairman. This question to me may have remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u103	Thank you. Mr von Martels has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u104	Nevertheless, a question related to the RIP investigation. We all know that Aedes asked TNO to investigate it and write a report on it. We also know that IenW has commissioned TNO. That is only coming to the Chamber for the second half of this year, while I hear sounds that it could be done much sooner. Can the Secretary of State make it clear exactly what this is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u105	TNO has several clients, that is well known, I think. Several parties have research carried out at this knowledge institution. That from IenW is about investigating the actual risks of exposure in the cleaning of asbestos roofs. On the basis of the risks, it will then be possible to identify the innovations that are needed. So it is really about the state of science; it has just been referred to. We're trying to get this investigation to the Chamber as soon as possible. I understand that it is now planned that it will be ready for the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u106	I have another question about monitoring the market, specifically about price developments. I think it should be affordable and easy for everyone in the Netherlands to get the ban. I'm worried about that. You can see that the price has increased in two years from an average of €160 per m to €250 per m. Of course there are specific differences in individual cases, but I think this market should be monitored. Because it can vary individually, of course, but we regulate this market; you cannot just remove an asbestos roof, we have rules for that. There are also labour shortages and we also have a ban on arrival. I'm just afraid the price will go up hugely. My question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to periodically inform the Chamber of price developments so that, if necessary, the Chamber can intervene if it considers that it is no longer affordable and affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u107	I get the question. I have just tried to point out that prices on the market are, of course, also determined by the size of the market and the regulation of the market. I had not, by the way, congratulated Mr Van Aartsen on this! A few comments have just been made on these prices. I will come back to the question of how we could do it in the second term. But I understand Mr Aartsen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u108	Thank you. So much for the government's first term. We're gonna see if there's a need for a second term. That is certainly the case with Mr Van Kent. I note that Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg have left us. I call Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SP Group is nevertheless disappointed, especially when it comes to the independence of the certification bodies. I found the Secretary of State's reaction disappointing. Also on the subject of the SZW or Labour Inspectorate, as we know it, the answer was not convincing. It gives the SP Group little certainty that there will indeed be enough inspection capacity in the coming period. That's why two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to organise the monitoring of asbestos reorganisation without market forces and self-regulation and to invest the tasks of CCIs in environmental services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to examine how to strengthen public, independent supervision in the field of asbestos rehabilitation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-155]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u110	We are convinced that the cowboys who are actually on the market are going to continue to use the word "cowboys" at some point, if we continue to muddle on the current road, if we do not take any major steps and do not do much more than the eight measures announced by the Secretary of State to the Chamber in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u111	Thank you. Then Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u112	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, of course, for the congratulations on my speech just now. Thank you for replying to both Secretary of State. Good to get some answers. I've got two motions I'm about to file. One motion is about the dispensation of the risk rating. It is good that the lead is being looked at, but I think it is really necessary to adjust the risk classes themselves. The Secretary of State would return to monitoring in the second term. I am very curious to hear the answer, but since this is my opportunity to table another motion on this matter, I will do so pending the answer. Then we can always see whether or not we modify or withdraw it in due course. Mr. Chairman. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the limited number of risk classes in the asbestos system results in a strict set of measures in the highest risk class which does not distinguish between higher and lower risks, placing simple interventions in an unnecessarily high risk class;]] [[Whereas this would entail unnecessary costs for individuals and businesses to clean up asbestos;]] [[Calls on the Government to achieve greater differentiation in risk classes when removing asbestos, to base its classification more on actual exposure and to take into account the outcome of TNO's investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Stoffer and von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u113	I'm sure you'll give me a few more seconds for the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to impose a ban on asbestos roofs by 31 December 2024;]] [[noting that the asbestos restructuring market has limited capacity due to excessive self-regulation and lack of labour, leading to high costs for individuals and businesses;]] [[Whereas there are doubts as to whether there is sufficient capacity on the market to remove asbestos from all roofs before 31 December 2024 without leading to extreme price increases;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor annually whether there is sufficient capacity in the asbestos sanitation market to achieve the ban on asbestos roofs, to examine the price development in the market and to link this back to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the PVV will not table any motions. There are a number of good motions before us today which we will give a ruling on. Furthermore, we are not reassured by the SZW Secretary of State whether she has really got a grip on the market, on the asbestos industry. Now we're gonna keep those cowboys out? And how exactly are we going to do that? Who exactly is going to oversee it? We're gonna keep our finger on the wrist in the next few days. We hope the Secretary of State will give us a little more confidence in the near future. One short question: I do not know which of the two State Secretarys is going to respond to the question of risk management. There are many enthusiastic reactions from colleagues to the proposal submitted by the PVV at an earlier stage. We would like to hear a response from one of the two State Secretarys on how we can still handle this in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u115	Thank you. Then Mr Renkema of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u116	Thank you. We have talked today about a complex industry with an important problem, but also about new ambitions towards 2024. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the existence of self-regulation in the asbestos sector;]] [[whereas there is a new ambition not to have asbestos roofs in 2024;]] [[having noted that new measures are being taken by the Cabinet as described in the September 2018 Action Plan;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an external evaluation of these measures and the system by mid-2019 and to inform the Court of Justice by 1 October 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u117	Then Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I have one question and two motions. The question focuses on the fact that the Secretary of State very often refers to "science." I'd like to know who that science is. Is the outcome of the TNO report published at the end of this year "science"? Can we focus on that in the future? I would very much like to know. Then I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas innovation in the asbestos sector has long ceased to exist;]] [[Whereas innovation often contributes to making things smarter for less money;]] [[noting that a validation and innovation point has now been established which should contribute to stimulating innovation;]] [[calls on the government to take forward innovations in the asbestos sector and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year of a number of concrete innovations that have been approved and are to take place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u119	Then the other one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the clean-up of asbestos roofs is classified as standard in risk class 2;]] [[noting that the report's understanding of proportionate asbestos policy shows that measures are being taken in the current situation which are not necessary;]] [[noting that the exposure risks are minimal;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the renovation of asbestos roofs can now be standardized in risk class 1,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u120	One more question from Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u121	I hear Mr von Martels say that exposure is very small when removing roofs. At the same time, I hear you ask about the state of science, which is a very common concept in the working world. You seem to have some knowledge to assess the extent to which asbestos fibres are released from the removal of roofs. What do you base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u122	On what does Mr von Martels base that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u123	I base myself on the TNO report commissioned by Aedes and made public yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u124	That wasn't yesterday. That was Monday, I think. We have already discussed the TNO report. The Secretary of State has said a number of things about it. Are you not inclined to allow that state of science to lead instead of a TNO report based on a lifetime worth 60,000 a year, with protective equipment included in that price? In my view, the Secretary of State thinks it is well-filed so that conclusions can be drawn here in the debate by you, Mr von Martels, and I am sorry to say this. Do you not think that this is premature and perhaps a little arrogant towards scientists who are also active in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u125	Science is also leading the CDA. That is why we are now relying on TNO's report and other signals from scientists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u126	Fine, thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u127	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion and two questions. First the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pilot projects are under way to clean up asbestos roofs by means of a specific foam layer where measurements show that exposure to asbestos fibres is minimised;]] [[noting that there is still no scope for wide-ranging application;]] [[Whereas safe, affordable and rapid clean-up of asbestos roofs requires the authorisation of innovative working methods;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that wide-ranging application of the above-mentioned working method is ensured if independent research confirms the minimalisation of exposure to asbestos fibres,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr von Martels and Mr Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u128	I have two more questions for clarification. I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment is in charge of certification; I will summarize it in a moment. "Direction" is a very broad concept. Does it mean that innovation is also being used from the Ministry and that direction is being taken? Or is that entirely left to the market? I'd like that to be a little more specific. Secondly, the interruption we had about the tanks on cranes, which the PVV also asked for. I'm assuming that if that's a normal procedure that you normally use, those bins can be used after 1 July and it's not the very last option, if you've already tried all kinds of other things. I hope I can get an affirmative answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u129	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. Will the Secretary of State be okay in five minutes? I'm suspending until 6:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u130	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I've received a number of motions. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input. I'll provide the motions with a verdict. The motion by Mr Van Kent and Mr Laçin to item No. 155 calls for asbestos clean-up without market forces. In any case, as far as I am concerned, independent supervision is well regulated. The certification bodies look at the certification requirements and monitor compliance with the rules by the Inspection SZW, the environmental services and the ILT. They therefore monitor compliance with the rules. That's why I don't recommend the motion. I do so with the same motivation in the motion in part No. 156.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u132	I'm a little surprised at this. I assume that the Secretary of State has read the reports of, for example, Tauw and the views of the Court of Auditors, and I see that in practice the person who pays also determines. I believe that the Secretary of State has also read the article in Trouw, on the basis of which this debate has been requested and is being held. I am very surprised at this view of the Secretary of State. Can she not see that something is going wrong with the certification bodies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u133	What I see is that we need to secure a number of matters in the public domain. I have taken steps to do that and we will have to work hard on it in the coming period. It's necessary. But if it says 'without market forces' in the motion, then I say that I do not think that is necessary, given how supervision is now organised. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u134	In other words, if it's... Let me ask the question this way. Are you satisfied...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u135	Is the Secretary of State...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u136	Is the Secretary of State satisfied with the way in which the certification bodies are now operating? Does the Secretary of State not consider that the conclusions drawn in previous reports and which were not tender, and the current practice, read also the Trouwartikel "Trouwartikel" "Trouwartikel" "Trouwartikel" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart" "Trouwart." Does the Secretary of State not think that the measure is sufficient and that the current situation with the certification bodies should be put an end to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u137	There's a need for that. The Trouw article on the basis of which this debate was held is from March last year. But I sent my letter to the Chamber in September, containing several measures in about eight areas and the proposal to even remove the recognition system as a stick behind the door. A lot of steps are being taken, even when it comes to certification bodies. Just look at the fact that they really need to be controlled by the Accreditation Council. So there's a lot of steps in it. I do not think we can agree on this on all fronts, and that is why I do not recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u138	Then we go to the second motion, in part no. 156.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u139	I didn't recommend it with the same motivation. Then I come to the motion on part No. 157 on differentiation in risk classes. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. The differentiation supports what I call "careful asbestos policy." These measures are in line with actual risks and exposure. The motion in part No. 158 is given an opinion by the Secretary of State of IenW. Then the motion to part No. 159. As I just mentioned in the debate on the interruption with Mr Van Kent, I am taking steps in the first half of 2019 on the basis of the letter of September 2018. I would find it rather difficult to evaluate it in mid-2019, all the more so because I will reply to a question from Mr Von Martels that hopefully the validation and innovation point will produce results by the end of the year. So I'm a little stuck with the deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u140	I hope I can help the Secretary of State, because we have mistakenly put "medio 2019" in motion, but it was intended to say "medio 2020." So we want to know in a year and a half from now what the impact of the measures is and how we are looking at the system at that time. We want to take an external look at this, so that we can be informed as Chambers in the second half of 2020 and we can involve it in the ambitions towards 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u141	We just evaluated the asbestos system. That is also what these measures are based on. I always think it is right that an evaluation should be carried out, but a year later, as far as I am concerned, would still be very early, especially if an external evaluation is requested. I do think we should have a serious exchange of views on how things are going, but I have difficulty with the heaviness and also with the deadline, even if it is adjusted. So I'm gonna dissuade the motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u142	Maybe I'll finish up on this. That date is a year and a half from now. I have heard many concerns in the Chamber today about how the system works. They are also shared by the Secretary of State and new policies have been put in place. Certainly towards the ambition for 2024 I would very much like to have such an external evaluation. I regret that this would lead to the rejection of this motion, because I believe that it is widely supported that it should be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u143	Let me put it this way: I have an image in an external evaluation that a very large project is being constructed. Perhaps we can get closer together there, because I think it is important for the Chamber to be able to make sure that the concerns that have been shared today are actually resolved. I think that is quite right in view of the supervisory role of the Chamber, but I do not want us to focus on evaluating, evaluating. But maybe we can get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u144	Shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u145	I'm not interested in a big project or anything, just for clarity. An external evaluation is that you have a party evaluated that is not part of the current system, so not the inspection either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u146	Okay. Then I'll give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u147	Then she's judgment room. I would like to ask Mr Renkema if he is going to come forward with an amended motion, because it now stands for 2019. He's going to connect with the Registry to make that 2020. That's just for reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u148	Then I have Mr von Martels' motion on item No. 160. It's policy support, so I'm judging Chamber. In the case of motions on the documents Nos. 161 and 162, both sympathetic motions, I would like to say that I find it difficult to speak here about a specific instrument or classification, because for me it is important that we simply work towards the state of science. I am not necessarily concerned with the use of a particular technique or the use of a particular instrument, but with the safe use of it. So if I make the motion to part no. Mr von Martels (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr von Martels on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u149	No, Mr. Van Aalst and Mr. Van Kent. I should like to give the floor to Mr von Martels, because it is his motion. I would like to hear him first, because there is talk of changing his motion. If he doesn't need it, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u150	I don't think he needs to adjust her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u151	No, he doesn't, but that was a suggestion. Or to give an explanation, let me put it this way. Is that what he wants to do? You don't have to, but the appreciation depends on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that I do not need to adapt so much lyrics, but I need to understand the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u153	Well, you're gonna have to give hoo-hoo or hoo-hoo in the direction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u154	In my opinion, TNO research or scientific research should show that it is possible. That's actually the only question I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u155	Fine. I couldn't agree more. Then it is just as important to determine which TNO research is then leading. Is that the research that we can soon expect the results of, or is that the TNO study the report was made public on Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u156	I would like to refer back to the structures that we have agreed on and to which we are also making a number of improvements. We have said from SZW that we want to be able to pass the state of science on to the certificate schemes. I mean that state of science, because I want it to be safe, especially from the workers' point of view. So, as far as I'm concerned, that's the tunnel we're going through, and it's going to be more public in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u157	If that tunnel vision is followed, I can follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u158	Mr. Chairman. The same notation about the motion in part No. 162.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u159	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Your final judgment is, therefore, Mr von Martels, judgment Chamber. There are still a few substantive questions about the motion, I understand. First from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm a little concerned, because the motion actually calls for standard housing of all roofs under risk class 1. I find that quite a bit, because I dare say that certainly not all rooftops will fall under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u161	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u162	As a precaution, I wouldn't want to do this if I were the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u163	I have put the emphasis on the word'research', and that is what the interrupting debate has just been about. For example, it is not up to me, but to the researchers that it cannot be standard but that it can be under certain conditions. We could find each other in that. But that's exactly what science has to prove.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u164	I just want to be very specific. At the moment, the state of science is already being monitored. That is the current situation. If this motion is passed, we will continue to monitor the state of science. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u165	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u166	Then this motion is completely superfluous and will not change anything about reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u167	No, because this motion calls for the adjustment of the scheme to take place more in the public domain. I used the example of the windowsills. It is said that they could actually fall under risk class 1. But Ascert says: we cannot do that, because the industry is concerned about the guarantee. Now we have agreed that we want the state of science to determine whether or not something can be done. This is without prejudice to the need to keep it safe. As far as I am concerned, that is what this motion says. If science says it can be done, then it must also be indicated by SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u168	Isn't that right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u169	No, we cannot now force a schedule to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u170	But the state of science is already being followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u171	Yes, but Ascert sees as schematic manager that there is different thinking about an application in its domain. For example, in the case of windowsills, Ascert recognizes that it can be risk class 1 standards, but at the same time part of the industry says: we do not see that the work is properly and safely secured. And then Ascert doesn't go through it, when you could generally say that the state of science is that it could. I see this motion as an answer to that, namely that if the state of the art says that it can, the schedule must also be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u172	Clear. The motion in part No. 162.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u173	For the motion in part No. 162 is the same thing. I put the searchlight on "if independent research" because that is, as far as I am concerned, leading. I would not like to keep a single methodology, technique or instrument out of this. But if the motion can read like that, I'll give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u174	That is the right thing to do, because that is also clearly what we have formulated in this way. So that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u175	So then she's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u176	Yes. Then I have two brief questions. In any case, I can tell Mr Stoffer that we also want to be in charge of this innovation, precisely because of the point of validation and innovation. When it comes to the workbox, the question is whether or not that is the last option. With the current state of technology, it is often the last option. But I would also like to say: let us not discuss what method we use, but let us use the safe method. This should also stimulate innovation and development. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is a question ahead: is it safe? And when it's safe, I think it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u177	Thank you. Mr Aartsen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u178	I had noted another question from the first term, also from the contribution of Mr Von Martels. It was about the role of the ACM in the functioning of the asbestos restructuring market. Is the Secretary of State prepared to involve the ACM in the question to what extent this market is now functioning well and well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u179	At least I have Tauw's report in hand, and a lot of fingers have been put in a lot of sore places. We have now taken a number of measures to this end. At the moment, I do not have the idea that an investigation by the ACM has added value to that. So I wouldn't say on my own now that I'm going to start an investigation into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u180	Thank you. Then we hear an appreciation of the motion in part no. 158 of the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion actually calls for price developments in the market to be monitored. I'm just gonna take it all together. I now report every six months on the progress of asbestos rehabilitation to the House of Representatives in the framework of its programmed approach. I would like to see, among other things, in consultation with Bouwend Nederland whether we can include something about price development. The question then is when this price development could be an indication of problems in that market and what measures can already be taken to keep the asbestos roofs as efficient as possible in terms of costs. This is very close to the agenda of the Secretary of State who has just explained it. If I may interpret this motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber and you'll get the first report for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u182	For eternity, I'd like to record that Mr. Aartsen has nodded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u183	Fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u184	Thank you. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-13.u185	Thank you to both Secretary of State for your presence. On Tuesday we shall vote on the eight motions.
