ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the Foreign Affairs budget, Room 35300-V. We have come to the answers on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u2	Of course, I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u4	Mr. De Roon is already standing by. Mr. De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. I already have a question and it is about what we could learn yesterday afternoon and especially last night through the media, about this reporting...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u6	No, Mr. De Roon, it's the government's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u7	Can't I ask a question? Can I not ask the Minister to take this point into account in his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u8	No, you can do that later. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u9	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. When I was allowed to start as Foreign Minister, I was able to tell the officials what drives me in foreign policy. I told them that I was the son of parents born in the 1930s, who are therefore of an age that they consciously experienced the war. The stories at my house, while eating, were of course about empty food, Mr. Van Ojik will probably recognize that. But also about their very personal experiences with what it actually is when there is a bombardment above your head and you sit under the table and hope that the bomb doesn't hit your head. Or what it was like to be trapped in a jappen camp, what it was like to be shot at, what it was like to be freed. These are, of course, images that have always been with me, but also images that always come back when I speak in this beautiful class with people who have just been through them, who now tell me that they have been shot, for example in Libya or Algeria, or that they have had to flee because their human rights have been violated; in fact, a terrifying continuity. In my own family, I can still ask my parents what it's like when your rights are violated, when you're in prison, and I have to ask people in all kinds of places in the world a lot of times. That motivates me to do so on behalf of this fantastic country. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I also talk to people very often, in line at the supermarket, about the hedge at our home. Fortunately, it is not immediately about their experiences with such horrible things, but they say that they know that I am from foreign policy. 'Say minister, we are concerned about terrorism, about unregulated migration'. I happen to live in a city with a lot of international companies, big exporters, seed breeding and pollen trade. They also tell me how proud they are of what they have accomplished there. They are also always very appreciative about the support they receive from our posts abroad. That is actually the very practical aspect of foreign policy for me: what does that mean for the people with whom you and I are talking about the hedge? At a time when we ourselves live in the Netherlands in peace and prosperity and when my parents' generation not only saw that peace coming, but also experienced that shops were suddenly full of French cheese and olives from the south, this illustrates the very practical results of the European Union. But in conversations, just on the street, you also notice that people are very well aware that foreign policy affects their lives. And that's something that drives me every day. This applies very much in the Netherlands and that also applies very much abroad. More than 1 million Dutch live there. Mr Sjoerdsma was right to draw attention to this. Not only do 1 million Dutch people live abroad, but we all make 19 million foreign holiday trips. It's just that we're a traveling crowd. Fortunately, these trips usually go well, but not always. So for those 1 million people, we're the town hall abroad. This is an important task, on which we have great quality ambitions and in which we have invested a lot. For the 19 million people who travel for other reasons, we are also there when things go wrong. That too is a nice and useful task. What are you getting yourself led by? That was actually a bit of Mr Van Ojik's question about the vision team. Of course, all kinds of sensible people have said very sensible things about this. I'm about to, but for example, the WRR made the next very useful three-part in my opinion a few years ago. First look at the direct interests of the country. The WRR then points to security and economics. Actually, just the things people say to me about the hedge. Secondly, look at strengthening international cooperation: the legal order, the European Union, the World Trade Organisation. Thirdly, we are fully committed to human rights. That report is already a few years old, but I thought it was a little less old than Mr Van Mierlo's note, to which Mr Van Ojik referred. I also think that it still provides a very good balancing framework in the question of what should be your main line now. The cabinet has therefore begun to express its vision, its strategy for foreign policy very clearly. We did that together with the colleagues. I myself am the first signatory of the Integrated Foreign and Security Strategy. Mr Kaag wrote the memorandum on foreign trade and development cooperation. Colleague Bijleveld wrote about Defence and then colleague Harbers wrote about migration. I was always a co-signator. That was at the very beginning of the cabinet period. That's what we agreed to in the coalition agreement. It is also quite right that you should start a cabinet period with a strategic vision of foreign policy and its various aspects. In addition, I have given the Chamber a very comprehensive strategic agenda on the European Union. We have debated this here and it has also led, at home and abroad, to opinions in the press. So I very much agree with Mr Van Ojik's statement that you need a strategic vision, but it is there and I have discussed it extensively with the Chamber and Mr Van Ojik. And then when you have it and have discussed it with each other, then you must indeed go to practice everyday, to pragmatism. Then I'm gonna go back to that hedge conversation. To be honest, people never ask me about that vision, but people ask me very practically: how do you ensure that we can sell more of our tomatoes and that we can live safely here in the Netherlands? I can give a good answer to that, because I know that this vision is behind it, but also because I know that with our diplomats, with our soldiers and with all those people who work for us day in, day out, we give our hands and feet to that vision. Mr Voordewind asked the classic question: how do you find the balance between human rights or values and trade, i.e. between the merchant and the minister? They're coming back in! They're supposed to go hand in hand. They both belong to the Netherlands, and I'm proud of both. It's my experience that the merchant opens the door for the reverend. I am not only being talked about these fantastic bulbs and tomatoes, but also when I'm abroad that's actually always the active question I get from my counterparts. These are often countries at a development stage, which really still face questions such as: how do I provide enough water and sufficient food? Everyone knows that the Netherlands is a country with very active and innovative entrepreneurs and excellent knowledge institutions. That opens doors to me and to my people, whether it be the special envoy for religion and belief or the human rights ambassador. Of course, you always have to make sure they come in at all. And then you notice every time that countries know damn well that we are the country with the message, but also the country with enormous innovation and investment capacity behind it. That is why I am convinced that that hand goes hand in hand. That has always been necessary, but that is, especially in the uncertain times in which we are living now, and you have all taken up this matter with great care. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed out that this complicated time also makes it more necessary than ever for us to work together in the European Union, even when it comes to foreign policy. There lies a huge potential power, a huge market power and also a huge moral power. We don't use them enough. I will look at the specific proposals made by Mr Sjoerdsma and others in this area. In this uncertain time, we need NATO just as much. President Macron has indeed said exciting things about this. I shall go into this more fully in greater detail. But for our security, NATO is now as necessary as it was at the time of its creation. Both organisations, the European Union and NATO, are part of the very costly and crucial network of international cooperation for the Netherlands. In this sense, I listened with mixed feelings to Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. They both gave from the bottom of their hearts to I very much support them in this regard how important they think that the Netherlands is active in the European Union and in the United Nations, and that the Netherlands is also a leader in this. I hope they will forgive me a little bit too, which also means that I am disappointed with their position so far on the agreement with Canada. I know that the debate is still going on, but you cannot and cannot say that the Netherlands is dependent on international cooperation and should be at the forefront of that. I agree with all of that, because that was the part of the debate that I really thought: we agree on this and say that you do not want a trade agreement with Canada. I can find in this agreement, in the EU Treaty, in any agreement, anywhere, really anywhere, a piece that I would have liked to write differently, and I do not want to trivialize the points you make, but we all know that if you negotiate with 28 countries on this side and Canada on the other side, it will never be a very beautiful baby. But at the same time, Canada is truly one of the most similar countries in the world. It is also appropriate to recall at this time that they are our liberators. After that, Canada was one of the countries that attracted human rights with us from the start of the United Nations, from the start of NATO. This is the country I always consult with if we want to be active in the Human Rights Council, in the United Nations or in NATO. Canada is the country with which I always see how we can move on the international stage, whether in Venezuela or in the Middle East. So I'm making this plea knowing that this debate is going to follow. I know Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik as reasonable people. That is why they will forgive me for seeing a real connection with their plea for international cooperation. And then I go back to the pragmatism that Mr Van Ojik accused me of: a vision should not become a flight from practice either. You have the practice, you have the question: can you make a trade agreement, compromise with Canada? And you have a vision of international cooperation. Well, we agree on the vision. But a vision only makes sense if you can put it into practice. Mr. Chairman. From this pragmatism, I'm going to answer the questions asked. Otherwise, you'll be impatient. That's what I'm gonna do in four chapters. That is, firstly, international security, secondly, human rights and the rule of law, thirdly, the questions about specific countries and regional situations, and fourthly, the consular work and the postal network.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u10	Mr Van Ojik promised me before the debate that he would keep his interruptions very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u11	Yeah, but that was before the debate. That doesn't count, Mr. Chairman. That's not in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u12	But that's why I'm saying it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u13	Mr President, that is good. I'll try to stick to that. If you don't mind, I'd like to say that I like to listen to the Minister this way. He is right to say that there are all kinds of pieces in which things are in there, but I am happy to hear someone who, with some passion for using that fashion word, defends the case in a debate where you are in the same room. I'd like to say that sincerely. Then I'd like to ask the Minister if he sees anything in the idea of a recalibrate. I have indeed called it that. That's an old idea, but he knows what I mean. Everything's on the move. Does he see any reason to reconsider this foreign policy in a general sense and to draw any organisational consequences? Because, of course, that was the interesting thing about that recalibrate. That was a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u14	You've discussed it extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u15	That was about the question: where are our priorities and which organization is included? Does he see anything in that? Or does he say, "Well, don't you?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u16	I see something about that, but I think that the cabinet really started doing so. That was an assignment from the coalition agreement that was at the top of my stack when I started: come up with an integrated foreign and security policy, with me as the first signatory and with the other pieces I have just mentioned with the other signatories. As a cabinet, we considered it logical to come forward with a comprehensive strategic vision of Europe prior to a new Commission period. We have debated this very extensively with each other. This has also been taken up in newspapers at home and abroad. I think Mr Van Ojik recognizes that too. Mr Van Ojik's order is logical, but it does not make sense to ask this cabinet to do so again. Then it makes sense to turn that into pragmatic actions. I think it is up to another cabinet to ask the question again at the beginning: what is our objective and how are we going to implement it in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, international security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u19	So it's possible. That appeals to me very much in the Minister's story. It actually says: it is possible, we can promote the international legal order and so on, et cetera, et cetera. And he also makes the link with realistic practice. That's what my question is about. Does the Foreign Minister not agree that NATO is in crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u20	I just came up with that. It says here, "Mrs. Karabulut asked me to reflect on that." So that's what I'm gonna do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u21	But, Mr President, this is the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u22	Yeah, but that's what the minister's gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u23	Does the Minister agree with me that NATO is in crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u24	But the Minister is going to answer that. This all counts: two questions, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u25	Last week, I congratulated Mrs Ploumen on her reference to the liberal journal, the Economist. I also congratulate Mrs Karabulut on this. That included the interview with Mr Macron. I'm always happy when people read the Economist, and then I hope for the other pages. As far as Mr Macron is concerned, he chooses his own words. I mean, "brain death," which is rather irrevocable and very gloomy. I don't share that with him. But a fact is that the outside world has become incredibly much more insecure. This means that the challenges for NATO have increased and that the EU must also take its role in security policy. I can only agree with him. For the cabinet, that was reason to spend twice more money on Defense. Then we are not yet on the 2% target, but then we clearly show that we are on our way there. This was also a reason for the cabinet to play a leading role in European efforts, under the fine abbreviation PESCO, in which we set up defence projects with a number of European countries. We cannot do without NATO for our security, but it is understandable that America says to us: take your part too. By the way, even if America didn't say that, everyday reality is that we have to do it more ourselves. That's what Macron points to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u26	Is with this then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u27	Well, I'm far from the end of the safety section.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u28	So the Minister states that NATO is not in crisis. I do not think that is necessarily realistic, but rather evidence of ostrich politics. How can the Minister close his eyes to the current crisis, when NATO partner illegally occupied another country and NATO partner and ally two, also a large country, namely the United States of America One was Turkey just stopped meeting all kinds of agreements? How can the Minister, who claims to stand for security and who knows by now that the war in Afghanistan has become permanent and that more militarisation will not solve this crisis, close his eyes to this? Surely he should at least be prepared to look with Mr Macron at possible alternatives to NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u29	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u30	We are in constant consultation with the French and other allies about the answers NATO must give and the European Union must give. We were before the interview with Mr Macron. The suggestion that NATO is in crisis in such a way that it has no future is far from my point of view. I started by saying that we live in a complicated, unsafe world. Even so, that my conversations about the hedge are about that. People are well aware that Russia's threat, which seemed to have disappeared thirty years ago after the fall of the Wall, has returned and that we are once again afraid of the return of nuclear weapons in Europe. We literally see wars on the edges of Europe, in Ukraine. People are well aware of this and appreciate it very much that I can indicate that the Netherlands is a loyal partner and wants to remain a NATO partner. Then I come back to that generation with which I started, which could remember very well that the English and Americans came in as liberators.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u31	I am going to give you the floor, Mrs Karabulut, but I am very strict about interruptions, I say. I would like to point out that in the first term, Members of Parliament have asked a great many questions and taken every opportunity to debate each other. The Minister has only been working for ten minutes. In order to get to the questions that have been asked, I have to take care of them a little. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u32	Mr President, I will sit down in a moment, but I do not think this is fair. We've just agreed on an x-number of questions. I'll keep my end of the bargain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u33	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u34	I just wanted to take advantage of my right to those seven questions. That is the total number of questions we have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u35	That's fine. It's your third question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u36	I find it quite shocking that while the whole world is in crisis, NATO is imploding and NATO is no longer providing us with security, the Minister is indeed relying on previous world wars and also on the Second World War. In fact, he says: we must, above all, continue to do so. The point is that the escalation with Russia also brings us more insecurity. I would therefore like to repeat my proposal to the Minister: please be prepared to look for alternatives and be prepared to listen to your former ambassador in Russia. He once again called today not to go in escalation, not even with Russia, that great country that belongs to Europe. Get on that call and get de-escalation. Avoid and end a new cold war. This is not achieved by blindly following NATO and the United States, because NATO is bankrupt and the United States has its own interests to maintain wars permanently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u37	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u38	My neighbors have very different concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u39	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut began by saying that she found it shocking that I referred to the experiences of the Second World War. We are now celebrating the fact that we have been liberated for 75 years, with great respect for the people who can still tell us. Those are for the people in the Netherlands, an ever smaller generation, terrible lessons that they will always keep up with. So I think it is also my job to continue to carry out these lessons while we can still hear them firsthand. Part of those lessons is the enormous gratitude to the Americans, the English and the Canadians who came to free us here. And that NATO, which is serving Mrs Karabulut, is the direct result of those experiences. It was founded in the years immediately afterwards, under the motto "never again; we are going to prevent this together." Surely it would be terrible to say at the moment that there are problems, and Mrs Karabulut is right to say that there are, we are just throwing it away? That would be totally irresponsible, wouldn't it? That is all the more so because, fortunately, we also have a number of investigations into the thought experiment: what would that mean, a Europe that would defend itself completely without NATO? The Court has recently received a report from the European Court of Auditors, which refers again to an investigation by the International Institute for Strategic Studies. They have tried to calculate what that would require of investments. They came out at around 330 billion in additional investments, only in Europe, in order to wage a local war here. That's huge! That is really huge and it is certainly not free. This is the financial side, but there is also, of course, the incredibly important side of forming alliances, including with countries on the other side of the ocean. These are countries that essentially share the same values. But it's not free! Mr Sjoerdsma asked, also following the interview with Macron, whether the Netherlands could join the Franco-German agreement of Aachen. As Mr Sjoerdsma undoubtedly knows, there is, of course, against the backdrop of the terrible Franco-German wars, also a great historical charge and historical symbolism in the construction of the European Union. They also feel this historical responsibility in the special band, which is enshrined in this Aachen Treaty, among other things. In a way, I would be shocked to say 'we want to join the same agreement', but the Netherlands is investing a great deal in the relationship with both major neighbours. We are one of the very few countries that have a tradition of government consultations with Germany, as it is called. We have spoken with our German colleagues again very recently with a very broad Dutch delegation. And also with France, relations are very, very close. The French minister was a week and a half ago at the House of Representatives and then I spent a very pleasant afternoon and evening with him. Earlier this week I was back in Paris myself and met him, having breakfast with the French Minister for European Affairs. The good thing is that this interest is mutually endorsed. The Brexit is, of course, for all kinds of reasons and very annoying outcome of the British referendum, but inevitably the result is that the weight of the Netherlands is increasing, that this is also seen by other countries and that they also see that we are taking that role. In this way, we will ensure that relations with Germany and France, but also wider, are kept well. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked whether NATO could not be extended to include democratic constitutional states in other parts of the world. There is very close cooperation. There is a program under the beautiful title Partners Accross the Globe, in which Australia, New Zealand and Japan participate. I believe that this is also a proper form of cooperation for these similar countries at a greater distance. So yes, there is a need for great maintenance of European security policy. Yes, we need active geopolitical action. It is good that the new European Commission is fully admitting this. But no, NATO is not brain-dead and NATO certainly can't access the dirt. This brings me to the point that Mr Sjoerdsma raised prominently about the European Union's foreign policy. I very much agree with him that effective foreign policy in the Netherlands is very much in the interests of effective EU foreign policy. I carry our message with great enthusiasm whether it is the merchant's side or the Reverend's side, but I am always aware that the merchant side sounds really louder when the other side knows that I come from a country that is part of a market with 500 million consumers and beautiful companies. And that, when I raise human rights, I do so together with the same 500 million people who, fortunately, share very much the same values. The other party therefore knows that, if we want it to come into force, we can use the instruments of such a large Union. I also agree with Mr Sjoerdsma and others that it has not been enough to date. That is why, in the strategic agenda I discussed with you earlier, I am very clear that we believe that this external policy should be much more coherent. That foreign policy must be integrated with development cooperation, with trade, with migration, with security. And if you conclude such a trade agreement, an area in which we have great power, then you must also use it for progress in the field of human rights or climate, because that is how we can actually use that European power. I am therefore very happy to be able to do so, and I have repeatedly raised this issue in the Foreign Affairs Council in order to give our High Representative of the European Union much more space to take an infinite position, without first consulting with the 28, when human rights are violated. When I received the first report of the murder of Khashoggi or of the threatening stonings in Brunei, I do not think there is any need for consultation before the High Representative of the EU can immediately inform an EU of values on behalf of all of us that this is unacceptable. I have already indicated in the Chamber that, as far as I am concerned, the requirement of unanimity for foreign policy may fall into a number of specific areas, such as the imposition of sanctions, where we have experienced that one or two countries blocked the others. As far as I am concerned, the unanimity requirement should be abolished. I'll bet on that, too. I also recently had direct coffee with him after it was announced that Josep Borrell would be the new EU representative. At that time I also discussed these points personally with him. Mr. Chairman. This brings me from the issue of security to the issue of human rights and the international legal order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u40	I think the Minister speaks true words about the importance of a strong European foreign policy. I have great concerns about this policy because there are Trojan horses in the European Union. I call Hungary, which blocked a strong statement from the European Union towards Turkey. I call Greece, which blocked an important human rights statement towards China. In this way, countries like China, and autocrats like Russia, can actually buy a voice or a blocking voice in our foreign policy. That's why I want to get rid of that veto. I would actually like to ask this Minister what he is doing to try to make that veto slowly disappear. But I'd also like to ask him to look at his other strategy. In fact, I thought it was quite a smart strategy to get the possibility of abstaining on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u41	Yes. A step-by-step approach is required when the requirement of unanimity is dropped. By the way, I also think that on important parts, such as the military's deployment, you will always need the consent of every country. We have therefore deliberately started the sanctions, precisely because of the examples mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma. We have actually chosen a light step, by saying: let us offer the possibility of abstinence. It also offers countries the opportunity to indicate: we did not support it, but when we saw that 26 or 27 countries wanted this, we did not want to block it as the only country. I must also honestly confess that it is not yet that far. But I welcome the ambitions of the new European Commission, which says that the EU wants to be a geopolitical player. That is in the Dutch interest. And then in the end, you have to dare take these kinds of steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u42	Of course I support this commitment, but I believe that the previous European Commission started this discussion about a year and a half ago. And then I look at what happens and then I see little progress. So I would also like to ask this Minister what opportunities he sees for taking steps in the near future. He never wants to tell us which countries are blocking it, and I understand this in part, but perhaps we should also talk about this from the Parliament with fellow MEPs, in order to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u43	Yes. For my part, of course, it is a matter of pushing, massaging, consulting and showing where to meet other countries. That could be on another file. I appreciate Mr Sjoerdsma's suggestion that this should be done at parliamentary level, because in fact you are also talking about giving over powers of national parliaments. It is, of course, very difficult to predict when such a moment is present. The history of the European Union is a bit one where something is suddenly possible when there is a crisis. Now nobody's hoping for that crisis, but sometimes that's reality. But if that is the way to do it, it is very important that you have done as much preparatory work as possible in the time before, and have actually put as many countries on paper as possible where you want to end up. In this context, I found the piece very important that my German colleague Heiko Maas published following 30 years of fall from the Wall. In that he literally said: Berlin can not only influence the world stage. So that was a plea from the most powerful country in the European Union. It is said that we, too, want foreign policy with other European countries. Of course, that helps enormously to go the way I'd like to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u44	I think the Minister agrees with me that a lonely finger lifted by the Netherlands on human rights policy abroad is not wise. We must do this at European level. The Minister says that we should not be caught up in the fact that one country has such a connection with China, for example, and this is a matter of great concern. He says: so let us perhaps do it together on European foreign policy in this area, but one country can stop it. I understand the Minister says so. But I was a little worried when I heard from the Minister something like: yes, but that's a first step. I hope he'll let me hear from him: no, that's it. We want a European foreign policy where the Netherlands always has a voice, and stronger, where the Netherlands can always say 'no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u45	For me, the example I mentioned, which has also been given to the Chamber in our strategic commitment, of the possibility of imposing sanctions, is a first step along the path of constructive abstention. I've clearly ruled out doing that for military missions. If I am negotiating with other countries on a more effective foreign policy, I do not think that I should start to burn down all the discussions immediately. I'm going back to how you can take steps. I see a German minister who clearly states that we cannot do it alone. I would therefore like to make it clear on the one hand: there must always be a right of veto per country on military missions. At the moment, I have nothing other than the two examples we have mentioned in our strategic agenda: civilian missions and sanctions. But I do think we should be open to the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u46	I would like to hear from the Minister that it is the intention that the Netherlands should always be able to say 'no'. We have just discussed human rights policy. There may be small bureaucratic things where, to be pragmatic, you can take a step, but it must be clear that the Netherlands can always have its own voice in European foreign policy, and that we can keep saying 'no' if things go the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u47	It's gonna take precision in the end. I have also mentioned the example of the High Representative's statements, where there are such clear cases, and I have also mentioned them, which I am prepared to say: 'High Representative, if there are serious human rights violations, simply bring out a clear statement on behalf of the European Union; you really do not need to call me and the other 28 first.' That is a bit between the sanctions, because it is not yet a sanction, it is not in other policy areas. It does illustrate: yes, you have to clearly indicate what you're referring to, but don't scorch every option in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u48	Of course, we should not be bound by any European foreign policy, but that is not my question. My question concerns the government's policy of serving our country's security in international traffic. I am afraid that the government has already made a big mistake there recently by making a deal with Turkey about the return of IS'ers to the Netherlands. That's what my question is about. Maybe the Minister can explain to us what that deal looks like. What categories of people are covered: men, women, children? Are there any categories excluded? Who's gonna pay for all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u49	I assume that Mr De Roon is referring to the communication that came out yesterday from a Turkish minister. There is no deal with Turkey, but there is a practice of a number of cases in recent years of Dutch people who had joined the terrorists of IS, who returned through Turkey, or at least tried to do so, and who had been arrested by Turkey. In those cases, where there were about ten, there has always been contact between the Dutch authorities and the Turkish authorities. That was also wise, because that way those people could be brought here and tried here under the guidance of our Marechaussee. That is the practical cooperation which the Turkish Minister, I presume, referred to, and which we also have contact with the Turkish authorities on the two current cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u50	Glad to hear that there is no deal with Turkey for the future, but that means that we have been lied to again by the Turkish government via the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u51	I heard the Minister make a bit of an opening when it comes to qualified majorities and the European Union's foreign policy. Looks like being a little pregnant. Or you do it and you make decisions when it comes to qualified majorities in foreign policy. Or you make very clear agreements about the exceptions. I believe that at the moment there are one or two exceptions regarding putting people on the penalty list and extending civilian missions. Will the Minister open the door to qualified majorities? I'm just trying to place it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u52	There are no exceptions yet. The examples I give relate to the areas in which the cabinet has indicated that it wishes to take this step. I added that I would prefer to see the High Representative express a direct opinion on human rights violations without a vote. To Mr Koopmans' question, which you are now asking, whether I do not want to talk about anything for the future, my answer is: that does not seem to me to be a good idea. I know Mr Voordewind as someone who repeatedly calls on me to act actively. We are going to discuss the situation in Turkey and North-East Syria, I think. I often respond to the Chamber with 'I do not expect unanimity' and then the Chamber, including Mr Voordewind, sometimes reacts a little sadly. Then I think: yes, but it is my job to inform you fairly about the information I have about this. It is precisely the approach that Mr Voordewind likes to choose that leaves the Netherlands, accompanied by other countries, to play an active role in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u53	If the Minister opens the door, I would like to see a very restrictive list of subjects he is thinking about. Maybe he can come back to that in the second term before we open the door completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u54	I'm not gonna make a whole list right now. I've informed you that the list already exists. I am concerned about the consistency with the wish that I often test with Mr Voordewind or with others in the Chamber to be internationally active and which I also understand. The Netherlands will always have to form alliances to be internationally effective. Then you must be willing to look at it with an open mind without saying straight away: on top of the two points we haven't even realized, I want that one, that one, and that one, and that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u56	Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the subject of human rights and international law. Those are traditional priorities of Dutch foreign policy. For centuries, I can say. These spearheads have been given an extra dimension by the extra commitment in this coalition agreement. There's a lot of extra money for human rights. There is a strong extra commitment to freedom of religion and belief. I'll get back to that in a moment. And that commitment will, of course, be given an extra boost by our commitment as a member of the Human Rights Council. Mr De Roon argued in favour of abolishing the Human Rights Council following the new Dutch membership, but I disagree with him very much. Indeed, there is much to be said about the Human Rights Council. We will therefore do so where necessary in the Human Rights Council. We will do the same with other countries that agree with us. At the same time, it is an organisation where human rights can be addressed in countries where we are deeply concerned. Think Myanmar, Yemen, China, Eritrea. I will deal with this in detail later. Through the system of the periodic review, country by country can be discussed what goes well, but certainly also what goes wrong. And yes, it is frustrating when a country like Venezuela becomes a member of it too. I totally agree with that, but it is also the place where we can address Venezuela. And yes, the Netherlands is also sometimes addressed. Mr De Roon replied. The Netherlands is indeed sometimes addressed, but that is in proportion to the fact that the Netherlands is told that there may be some mud on our pants because we appeal to other countries on the many blood on their hands. I would like to thank the Netherlands for addressing these major problems. And yes, there is a disproportionate focus on Israel in the Human Rights Council. Mr De Roon and Mr Van der Staaij replied. So the Netherlands is also agitated that that has to change. Last September, we made it quite clear that we believe that this separate item on the agenda should be abolished. But that also applies to the fact that I can do better if I am a member of the Human Rights Council, where I can bring it in with other countries, rather than by shouting outside and not exerting any influence from the inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u57	Did you answer the questions about the Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u58	Almost. Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Helvert asked me for an ambitious agenda. That will certainly be there, in line with the coalition agreement, and I will say in particular to Mr Van Helvert. The focus in the coalition agreement is on freedom of religion and belief, equal rights for lhbti and freedom of expression. These are also the key points that we will use in the Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u59	It is good to hear from the Minister that he wants to tackle that permanent item on the agenda to touch on Israel. We've talked about that before. But my question is: does he really see enough perspective for reforming the way in which the Human Rights Council operates? We know that at some point the Americans have dropped out because they no longer believed in it. Then there is the question: why does this Minister see the possibility of actually achieving something in this respect and of reforming the Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u60	The US step was part of a broader policy to operate less multilaterally, as it is technically called. That is a policy choice which I respect, of course, from a friendly nation, but which I do not share at all. And then I go back to the part where I very much agreed with Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. The Netherlands is a medium-sized country. We have been masters of balancing the interests of the countries around us for 400 years, and we are working well with that. It is in our interest to have this multilateral order, but that is also in the interests of all the countries of the world. I regret that a country that is so big that it can give the impression that it can function without that international order. To be honest, I have some criticisms of other UN organisations as well. I am very proud to host the International Criminal Court here, but I also have a very strong discussion about the level of salaries, to name but a few. But I very much believe that you can only make credible criticism if you show: we really want to participate and therefore have the right to criticise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u61	I agree. Above all, we must continue to focus on multilateralism. But the Americans' reasoning was more than that. When it comes to the Human Rights Council, it was also very explicit: we no longer believe that we can really bring about reforms in this area, which will allow the Human Rights Council to operate crediblely again. Then I ask the Minister's strategy to live up to his optimism that this can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u62	Without optimism and belief in the future, it's just difficult to operate. This applies not only in this house, I would like to say, but certainly also in international organisations. I'm going back to the beginning of my speech. I can still talk to my gray parents about their memories. Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij can do the same. I know that Mr Van der Staaij has traveled a lot too, but I have to say that every journey is still taking place. Then there are two possible reactions. One is: it's not helping. The other is: shoulders under and still do our best. The generation of our parents has benefited from the people who said "we're going to do it," with the commitment of their own lives. Then that's our job, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u63	Thank you to the Minister for his answers about the Netherlands in the Human Rights Council. I had put forward a number of more concrete proposals on how to improve the functioning of that council, not its content. By the way, these are proposals from the Netherlands itself; I do not claim copyright here. Those proposals have been made earlier and are about countries wishing to become members arguing that content and meeting a number of minimum standards themselves, and that there must be more countries able to do so, so that you get an election. Would the Minister care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u64	I do so in the second term, because Mrs Ploumen refers to a number of concrete proposals. I don't have it for me right now. I'd improvise. I think it's nicer that I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u65	Doesn't this count as interrupting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u66	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u67	It's not my call again. Mr. Chairman. Then the commitment to freedom of religion and belief. That is a priority of the cabinet that Mr Van Helvert asked for. He was somewhat disappointed by the brief reference to this in the budget. I would almost say that good wine does not need a wreath. I know that the Chamber has spoken with the Religious Envoy and has seen how enthusiastic it is that he is going to work. There's a lot of money available for that, too. I do not need to explain to Mr Van Helvert that this cabinet has more than 36 million extra available for the Human Rights Fund. Of these, 6 million are specifically available for freedom of religion and belief. The special envoy for religion and belief has worked enthusiastically and has made a lot of trips. He'll keep doing that in the next few days. Mr Voordewind asked about the same theme what our commitment is to counter the worldwide persecution of Christians, the most widespread persecution of believers there is. The Dutch commitment to global human rights for all vulnerable groups, i.e. the freedom of religion and belief, concerns Christians and certainly also converts and non-believers. We are therefore also opposed to the blasphemy legislation on which Mr Voordewind went, and especially to the application of the death penalty as a result. I think that Mr Voordewind, like myself, is reminiscent of the happy outcome of Mrs Asia Bibi's case, which had to do with such a conviction for her faith. That is a glimmer of light that shows that the commitment we make with many countries, to a large extent behind the scenes, can fortunately lead someone who has been persecuted for the faith to return to safety. That's still our spearhead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u68	Is this the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u69	Mr Van der Staaij asked about the commitment to psychological trauma after persecution on the basis of religion. From the Human Rights Fund, we support human rights defenders in general. In practice, this can certainly concern people who are persecuted on the basis of religion, but the commitment is broadly defined for human rights defenders in general. They can catch their breath in the Netherlands as part of the Shelter City programme. In this context, we can also provide support in the field of psychosocial issues. In addition, the Chamber also knows that Mr Kaag, on the basis of her responsibility, has raised the importance of psychosocial assistance in war victims around the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u70	About the special envoy for the freedom of religion and belief. We are very glad that there is one. The minister says good wine doesn't need a wreath. However, the work of the Ministry does, of course, require parliamentary scrutiny. The Envoy has arrived, but we do not really have a piece on the ambitions or the way in which he works. Now that there is nothing in the budget either, my question is whether the Minister would like to send a letter to the Chamber stating that this special envoy is here now, what the ambitions for the coming year are, what the business he is going to do and has done, and so on, so that we can talk about it for once. We don't have a single piece of it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u71	I'd like to do that, preferably with the Human Rights Note. Then we can discuss it in one package. The budget's in there, too. If that's how we're gonna get together, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u72	When's the Human Rights Note due?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u73	In May, I hear next to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u74	It could be in May, I hear here saying. But then we get more of a responsibility for what happened, a kind of annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u75	What happened and what's in the schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u76	We've got something new now. The Chamber has expressly asked for this. It was a wish from the Chamber. To date, we have not heard anything about the start of this envoy and what he is going to do. Well, we did request a meeting about it. What is the purpose of the cabinet with that envoy? Is the Minister prepared to share that now? Then, in accordance with parliamentary control, we can look at the Human Rights Note to see if the Minister has done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u77	Yeah, that's why I wanted to take it in that cycle. We discuss the Human Rights Note every year. It contains the plans and the report. I'm thinking about the time, too. We will meet in May on the Human Rights Note. That's not that far away anymore. The special envoy for religion and belief is then just under a year at work. I think that's a logical time to start that cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u78	Then that's kind of a commitment. It's happening anyway. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u79	Mr. Chairman. In the same context, namely our commitment to religion and belief, the Netherlands will host next week's conference in the framework of the Istanbul process, as it is called. That is a long-standing international initiative for tolerance between beliefs. The Netherlands is the proud host of this. Representatives from 45 countries will be present. I've sent an invitation to the reception through the Registry to the Chamber. With this we show that we want to play a leading role in this process, which in all honesty is difficult and which occasionally involved falling and getting up. Mr Van Helvert asked about the involvement of the RBZ. I will put the results of this conference in the RBZ letter. With regard to human rights, Mr Van Ojik asked for the impact of our policies to be further increased if possible. He also specifically asked about the position of environmental and land law defenders. Through the EU, there is a comprehensive programme for this. More than a billion has been spent on this route. I think it is logical that this should remain an ambition for the future as well. The Netherlands is present, often at EU level, but often independently, at human rights defenders' processes. That comes on top of the commitment in all the talks with countries in which I raise this issue if I see any reason for doing so. Today, for example, I spoke to the Saudi Minister. I think he's spoken to the Chamber, too. For a number of years now, the Netherlands has also been involved in the distribution of the Human Rights Tulip. In line with Mr Van Ojik's call for the involvement of activists and land defenders, I think it is logical that we should give to the committee that selects the candidates to include these people as candidates for the Human Rights Tulip. I believe that Mr Van Ojik is right in saying that these are subjects where people are literally putting themselves at risk for their own lives on an important issue. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert asked about the progress of my commitment to a European human rights sanctions regime, or the Magnitsky regime, as they always call it. The Chamber knows that I have been working hard on this in the European Union for more than a year now, both through the European Councils and through bilateral talks. There's a lot of support there. Large countries in particular are very explicit in their support for this. But this is an area where unanimity is required. So we're not here yet. Mr Sjoerdsma asked if I could refer this to Mr Borrell. I did so immediately when it became known that he was the candidate for High Representative. I have indicated to him: dear Josep, we have already discussed it from minister to minister; as you are about to hold this high office, I would very much like this agenda to be your agenda as well. I'll keep talking to him about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u80	I should like to know whether you have answered all the questions relating to this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u81	In this area, I still have Mrs Ploumen's question as to whether sexual violence should also be covered by that regime. On that one a full-bodied yes. This is, of course, one of the horrific forms that, unfortunately, human abuses often take place in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u82	Yes, of course all support for this commitment to a European Magnitsky law, because it is important that human rights criminals can be dealt with worldwide, their assets frozen and travel bans can be imposed. But the exciting thing is, of course, what was the answer from the forthcoming High Representative. I did not see that in the letter of priority sent to him by Mrs von der Leyen. I think that's a missed opportunity. I am very curious whether the forthcoming High Representative is going to make this a priority or whether another push is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u83	It's gonna take another push. You're right to point that out. It has not yet entered the strategic agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u84	With any luck, we still have to see if we can do that, and this committee will start on 1 December. This committee wants to be more geopolitical than ever. You're right. This Minister supports that, too. But then I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to send a letter, for example with France, Germany and Great Britain, to Mrs von der Leyen, with the High Representative in the cc, stating that this should be top priority for the first months of the committee. In this way, we come to that geopolitical committee and we really stand for human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u85	I am happy to see with similar countries whether this letter is the correct one. I am happy to do so and how we can give that last decisive push. We're a long way, but you won't have a prize until you cross the finish line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u86	Thank you to the Minister for agreeing wholeheartedly that sexual violence against women should be part of such a sanctioning regime. My question is a bit like Mr Sjoerdsma's question. I conclude that the Minister is committed to this. How does he estimate the chance that it will actually be realized? And is there anything else we can do from Parliament to help him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u87	If there was a vote, I would have won the big one. But it requires unanimity. I am very hopeful because I know how broad the support is, but I must also be honest: I need the last votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u88	I welcome the extra commitment to support environmental activists and land rights defenders, who indeed need it. I have a general point on human rights. Not only do we see autocratic leaders everywhere, but we also see people resisting those autocratic leaders everywhere. Of course, that has always been the case, but now it is very visible: in Hong Kong, in Lebanon. I don't have to mention all these countries. Does the Minister see the possibility of supporting with our postal network, more than is happening now, those people who sometimes risk their own lives on the streets in all those countries of the world, Latin America, Asia, but also in Europe itself, in order to oppose these autocrats and defend human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u89	First of all, I am proud of our postal network in this area too. We are truly a safe home for human rights defenders in many places in the world. Of course, Mr Van Ojik knows better than anyone that this can sometimes not be done in public. My view is not that there is any need for additional efforts. This is something that the posts explicitly do, but I do it myself. There is now quite a lot of footage available of press conferences where I, with colleagues who are more or less happy, discuss the human rights situation or discuss Hong Kong. We often get very clear reactions from the countries where we are discussing this. In this area, I really expect the greatest effectiveness of taking other EU countries along, so indeed such a human rights sanctions regime. In fact, I always hear from the High Representative: if you expect me to raise that issue, then I must be able to count on you to do the same, that I do not address the difficult work of human rights because you do not dare. I always say no, but I promise. I really believe that the Netherlands plays a leading role here and that the increase in effectiveness must come from coalition formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u90	I ask the Minister not to see my comments as criticism of the postal network or of his inadequate action. It may be a bit weird to say, but you see a new phenomenon, that counter-movement against all those autocratic leaders we're so worried about is getting bigger and bigger and more and more shapeful. I think that this counter-movement needs the support of those diplomats and those diplomatic representatives in those countries very much, of course in a broader international context if that is possible. I ask the Minister to see if we are sufficiently equipped to provide legal assistance, protection, to visit processes, you name it, to be able to put it all in place in all those places where that phenomenon occurs. I fully agree that this should, of course, be done at EU level, if possible. Maybe he should make that an item on the agenda for the Foreign Affairs Council, which I think is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u91	Sure, I do that with great regularity. I am also doing so in the light of the extra commitment of the cabinet. I just referred to the 36 million extra specifically for human rights, under the government agreement. There is an additional 40 million for the postal network in the coalition agreement. This is also being strongly used for human rights, alongside the other priorities of the cabinet. An amendment has also been tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, with other coalition members, to further strengthen the postal network, to see if there is any additional capacity. I think that also meets Mr Van Ojik's wish. Soon I will comment on that amendment myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u92	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u93	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Van Helvert's proposal to restore diplomatic ties with the Assad regime. I recall that the Netherlands in 2012 at the same time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u94	On the previous point? Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u95	Just a check to see if we're past human rights and if you're in specific country situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u96	This is the last point in the human rights section, and I will go into the country situation. In 2012, the Netherlands broke diplomatic ties with the Assad regime at the same time as a number of other EU countries. The EU has also stated in the Council Conclusions that the Syrian Democratic Opposition was now seen as a legitimate representative of the Syrian people. That was because of the horrors that the Assad regime had already caused back then, in 2012, and since then it has only got worse. It is one of the rulers in the world who has accounted for by far the most atrocious crimes and has also fled millions of inhabitants. The suggestion that we should accept this is not mine. First of all, because Assad's position is much more shaky than is suggested here and there. Once you have caused such horrors in your own country, you can no longer rule your own country in a legitimate way. The return of refugees, which was the subject of an interruption debate by a number of MPs, will be constantly hampered by the presence of Assad. That is also my experience in conversations I had in refugee camps, that people pointed out very clearly: as long as Assad is there, I can't go back. That is why the Netherlands has been working with EU partners and American allies since 2012, and we are still doing so. We've turned the thumbscrews on, including sanctions. We also inform the allies of Assad, Moscow and Tehran that they are supporting Assad to support a bankrupt property and that they should not count on our financial contribution to repairing the enormous damage that they themselves have done. Mr. Chairman. The commitment of the Netherlands was, therefore, that Assad does not deserve a place at the negotiating table, but rather a place in the defendant's bank, preferably at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Together with 56 other countries, we have also transformed this into an initiative in the form of a letter to the UN Security Council. We asked for the situation in Syria to be referred to the International Criminal Court. That was then blocked by vetoes from China and Russia. That's why we don't have that jurisdiction right now. But I think it fits the Dutch tradition, that it fits the Dutch commitment, that someone who has Assad's wrongdoing on his conscience ends up in the dock, just like for him Milošević, Mladić or Charles Taylor. That is because of the wrongdoing of Assad itself, but also because of the coherence of the Dutch human rights policy. Today, and very often, we have talked about the leading role that the Netherlands traditionally takes in the human rights debate and wants to continue to take, for example with such a practical and very important instrument as a human rights sanctions regime. At the moment, we agree with a lot of countries on the fact that Assad belongs in the Criminal Court. If the Netherlands were suddenly to take the lead in re-establishing relations with Syria, the Netherlands would become very unbelievable as a advocate of a human rights sanctions regime. Those countries that were our allies at the time we said 'Assad is no longer a place' will be told by us: and will you support our human rights sanctions regime? The justification, namely that Assad is still there and that we have to accept that, is actually the basis that every potentate, every human rights violator wants to hear. For he hopes that, if he stays in power long enough, if he stays in the saddle long enough by violating human rights, the free world and the defenders of human rights will say: well, it has not helped, we accept it. As the Netherlands, we are allowed to send out that signal. So I do not accept Mr Van Helvert's suggestion because of the wrongdoing of Assad and because of the role that the Netherlands wants to play in the field of human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u97	Indeed, the Minister remains in the position where he stood with the defense that Assad has done terrible things. We agree on that. I do not think that was the point of discussion either. What the Minister does say, and I do not think that is right, is that Mr Van Helvert suggests that we should accept it. That suggestion was not made and I did not say it. What I have said is that we must acknowledge that we have not succeeded in getting him out of there. You can say that you are not going to accept that either, but at the moment when we are not prepared to do anything about it, when the United States moves away, we will have to acknowledge that he is there for the time being. Then the Minister says 'if the Netherlands should take the lead', but I never suggested that either. I said, can we make a small opening? In fact, that leadership has already taken on someone else: Denmark, the Czech Republic, Poland, and France. The French Minister has also said that it is no longer possible to speak. So those suggestions weren't made. Does the Minister recognise that if Assad stays where he is and we don't scare him away, he will have a role in future stability in that region? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u98	This is what Mr Assad hopes we will say. And not only Mr Assad, but also similar rulers. That is why I find the observation, also as Mr Van Helvert himself puts it, that he remains there for the time being, so we have to accept a message that the Netherlands cannot send.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u99	Again, it's true that... Some of my colleagues here sometimes have it when I say something. I say something, and the minister says "Mr. Van Helvert says sis or something," but then there's gonna be something completely different from what I actually said. That's very annoying, because that doesn't bring you to the heart of the discussion. I understand the sensitivities. I also understand that we can disagree. But we have to be able to talk about sensitive things, and this is one of them. No one's gonna stand up to this. Nobody's gonna give in to the fact that Assad's in there. No one says it's suddenly forgotten and forgiven. No one's saying that at all. But we have to admit he's there. And we must also acknowledge that we have tried to change that and that we have not succeeded. That's not putting yourself down, but that's admitting it. Last year, the VVD together with the CDA filed a motion calling on the government to set up the trial of ISIS fighters with local authorities, and the judge said in a ruling two weeks ago that the State of the Netherlands should be allowed to investigate further local trial. How is the Minister going to implement that motion, and how is the Minister going to implement the judge's ruling on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u100	This wording too, namely 'acknowledging that Assad is still there', is a wording that would go for many others. Mr Van Helvert regularly appeals to me, also in his speech yesterday, on my commitment to human rights violations, for example in China, for example in Turkey. I'd be happy to commit myself to that. But then I also realize what it would mean for that commitment if I took the step Mr. Van Helvert asked me to take. When it comes to his practical question about the commitment to trial, the Chamber knows that we have the International Criminal Court again as the main line. I think that is the logical final destination of Mr Assad. I think so, and I hope that Mr Van Helvert agrees with me. And I think that if you think that the logical final destination for a ruler is the International Criminal Court, at least it will be a surprise to say: and in the meantime, we are going to establish diplomatic relations with you again. Since the route of the International Criminal Court for the time being is not known for how long it is blocked by vetoes, I am committed, with a whole range of other countries, to seeing whether trial in Iraq is possible. There's still no guarantee that that's gonna work. There are practical questions about the quality of justice. We do not accept the death penalty, so we are far from agreeing on that. But it makes sense for me to finish that route. But the fact that this is difficult is not a reason to say: let us then establish diplomatic relations with Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u101	I understand you're not opening up the highest diplomatic relations right away, but you can start consular cooperation somewhere. And then when we follow the Minister's line that if someone has committed such evil crimes, crimes against humanity, you say you do nothing and do not engage in diplomatic relations, then I ask myself the following. Last year we received the Prime Minister of China at the Tower. He was received with all respect. In China, the death penalty is more common than in all other countries of the world combined. In China, 1 million Uighurs are trapped because they are Uighur. In China, organ robbery takes place. In China there is no freedom of religion and belief. If we follow the line that we don't talk to people like that, why do we receive one Prime Minister at the Tower, when we don't even go into the lowest form of consular cooperation with the others, and eventually think about reconstruction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u102	The step towards ending diplomatic relations with Syria is a step that we have taken widely with many European countries, because we concluded with each other: this is so terrible what is happening there; the leaders must be brought before the International Criminal Court and there must be a new regime. That is not the commitment to China or other countries, with which we indeed have strong discussions on human rights. This does not immediately achieve our goal, but fortunately it is done in such a way that we can have a proper conversation with each other. You can't just align that with what's happening in Syria. The strength that we showed with a whole number of European countries in 2012 -- the end of relations and a joint commitment to the trial of Assad -- is a force that we must continue to exercise together. Of course, we continue to maintain close contact with other European countries. This is also true in this area. Mr Van Helvert is right that there was no total unanimity at the time. The Czech Republic has always had diplomatic representation there. But we were at that time with a very broad delegation of countries, and we still are. Assad's crimes have only got worse since then. So then the logical commitment remains: for the Criminal Court in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u103	Let us now turn to reality and practice. The strategy of this minister and the West was to get Assad out. That strategy has failed. What has happened is that jihadists and jihadist groups have been supported. That's one. Secondly, the hypocrisy described by Mr Van Helvert, I also see. If the reasoning is that the Minister does not want to establish contacts, because he believes that he would justify the great crimes of Assad, is the same not true for Saudi Arabia? That country bombs in Yemen, where 85,000 children died from bombs from Saudi Arabia. If by establishing contacts, for example in the Northeast of Syria, we could help Syrians who need our assistance and/or could consult with them, is that perhaps a reason to think about practical solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u104	Practical solutions for humanitarian aid, where the Netherlands participates. Fortunately, until the Turkish invasion, it was also possible to allow humanitarian aid to go to Northeast Syria. I have just extended to Mr Van Helvert why I do not think the establishment of relations with Assad is the right choice. Mrs Karabulut continues the reasoning and says that we should do the same with regard to other countries where we are concerned about human rights. That is a reasoning which leads to any possibility of a discussion with those countries being cancelled. So the possibility of influence that we still have there will cease to exist. And that'll only get you farther from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u106	Then I come to Mrs Ploumen, who asked how her motion on the protection of women journalists is being implemented. At the time, when the motion was tabled, that problem was indeed very distressing, and is still a topical problem. We have carried out this motion, among other things, by supporting a number of NGOs that pay particular attention to the security of women journalists. We have also called for specific attention to be paid to the position of women journalists in our efforts in international organisations, for example recently in the OSCE. And our statement in the Human Rights Council is there again! It was supported by more than 60 countries. The Netherlands, also following a request from Mrs Ploumen together with Mr Sjoerdsma last year, will also host the UNESCO conference in the framework of the World Press Freedom Day next year. We're expecting 1,500 participants. There too, the important issue of protecting women journalists will be prominently on the agenda. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to move on to the questions that have been asked about specific countries and regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u107	One more question on this important issue raised by the Minister, namely freedom of the press. Recently, 130 organisations in the field of press freedom and media representatives have called on the UN Secretary-General: please help us, because we are under pressure and our security is at stake, appoint a special UN representative for the security of journalists. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has refused to do so to my great surprise. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to point out in the UN that the Netherlands would at least be in favour of this and would like to see this special representative get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u108	I would just like to look at how this went exactly and come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u109	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u110	Then I come to the questions relating to specific countries and regions. Mrs Karabulut has already paid a great deal of attention to the situation in Yemen and has done so now. That's understandable. Mrs Ploumen also did. As they both know, the previous Dutch cabinet, Minister Koenders, was there at the time leading the UN Human Rights Council at the time, managed to get a group of experts to investigate human rights violations in Yemen. Since then, fortunately, it has always been possible to extend the mandate of this group. 'Happy' in that way we can always be provided with their reports, which are, by the way, terrible. We could therefore continue to exert international pressure. The Netherlands is also very restrictive when it comes to licensing arms supply to parties involved in the conflict. They are only issued when it has been demonstrated beyond doubt that those weapons cannot be used in that conflict. I have also indicated to the Chamber before that we have explicitly explored whether other countries are prepared to take further steps, at UN level or at EU level. But there is simply no support for that. I understand that this is disappointing, but it is also my job to inform the Chamber fairly. However, as has already been discussed, the sanction regime, which the Netherlands is committed to in the EU, can, once it exists, be used against human rights violations worldwide. With regard to Myanmar, Mr Koopmans and Mrs Ploumen asked me to deal with the case that Gambia has just started at the International Court of Justice for genocide on the Rohingya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u111	On the previous point, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u112	Against Mohammed Bin Salman, responsible for the dismemberment of journalist Jamal Khashoggi and for the death of 85,000 children in Yemen, no sanction has yet been imposed. My question to the Minister was the following. It is clear, as the Minister also states, that arms exports criteria are being violated by European countries. Is the Minister prepared to have an independent investigation conducted, or should we accept that impunity is the norm for friendly dictators?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u113	You also need the support of many countries to carry out an investigation into arms supplies, because they have to cooperate in that investigation. As the Chamber knows, the Netherlands has actively sought the possibility of further restricting arms supplies both in the UN and in the European Union, but we have found no support for this. The same countries do not need the kind of research that Mrs Karabulut is now asking for. Then it is not real to describe that we could get that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u114	This is not really an answer to my question. I ask: do you want this minister? If this Minister wanted that, then the Minister could look for support and perhaps he could even tell us which countries he has been in contact with. So, would the Minister himself want an independent investigation into the violation of arms export criteria in relation to Yemen, where 85,000 children were killed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u115	Mrs Karabulut now pretends that it is enough for me to want to do so and that I can get other countries to do so automatically. I have looked very actively for the possibility of limiting arms supplies, because the Netherlands shows that we are already doing so. I have found that there is no such support. For what Mrs Karabulut is asking, you need the cooperation of those same countries. You can only investigate supplies from countries if those countries themselves participate in them. That's not real. I understand that that is the answer that Mrs Karabulut does not want to hear, but it is the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u117	Mr Koopmans and Mrs Ploumen asked about the matter that Gambia has just announced against Myanmar. Following an earlier initiative by Mr Koopmans, I am talking to similar countries to see if we can take part in this route. This is exactly the route that Mr Koopmans, I thought a year ago, outlined. Now I can say that these talks are going well, but also that I have agreed not to mention names until we have reached a conclusion. So I am looking very seriously at the possibility of doing it with other countries. I want to get some "like" countries into that. I hope I can get a positive message on that soon. In the meantime, however, we support a evidence bank for Myanmar, because it is very important for the prosecution, as is the case in Syria and Iraq, that evidence be collected in good time. They will be necessary when, in the legal proceedings, which must ultimately take place, people must be convicted on the basis of that evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u118	I may have misunderstood, but I think the Minister answered my question as to whether the Netherlands would like to join the Gambia that the Netherlands really only wants to do so if we can do so with a group of like-minded countries and that we are working on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u120	Okay, then I got that right. Then my question would be: why does the Netherlands not want to join the Gambia now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u121	Because I think it's important to broaden it to a number of similar countries. Here too: the wider the coalition is, the better. The Gambia is also supported by the organisation of Islamic countries. There is nothing against that, but that is of course an organisation that the Netherlands is not a member of for understandable reasons. I think it is a good balance if we can form a broader coalition with, I shall say, liberal democratic constitutional states. I see a perspective and I would say: give me a moment, because I think Mrs Ploumen could also welcome such an outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u123	Mrs Karabulut asked me once again to deal with the measures taken against Turkey following the invasion of Syria. As Mrs Karabulut knows, the Netherlands was one of the countries that clearly condemned it and at that time also froze supplies of arms. Fortunately, we were able to realise that this was ultimately supported by EU-wide, also by a large number of countries that had not already taken these two steps on their own. Last week in the Foreign Affairs Council, I reiterated the importance of ensuring that all European countries comply with the agreements we have made on arms supplies. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to move on to the questions that have been asked about the postal network and consular services. Mr Koopmans asked, and in that I recognize a traditional spearhead of Mr Koopmans, to our commitment to the victims of marriage coercion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u124	Mrs Karabulut on the previous point, I think: Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u125	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister assure us that the Netherlands will not supply any weapons to Turkey as long as Turkey continues to occupy North-East Syria? And is the Minister also prepared to impose an arms embargo on existing contracts and subsequent deliveries on the basis of older contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u126	We have declared that freeze ourselves, so it will apply until we lift it. I really need to check how existing contracts are handled. I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u127	So the Minister assures us that no more weapons will be delivered to Turkey as long as the occupation of North-East Syria continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u128	I just indicated that I need to see how we've dealt with all current contracts. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u129	And the second and third questions were indeed about ongoing contracts. I would like to hear the answer to that later in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u130	On the situation in Syria and the incredibly complex problem of IS fighters. Two women had escaped from the Al-Holkamp. They then showed up in Ankara. I would like to ask the Minister whether the cabinet still has all the Dutch in those detention camps and whether we have guarantees that there are not more Dutch people running loose, because I myself am rather shocked by the speed with which these people had not only escaped, but also suddenly stood in Ankara.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u131	The intelligence services report from time to time to the Chamber and to the Cabinet on the image they have of the Dutch in Syria and of those of them who are imprisoned. Because of course it is an unclear area, with from time to time blazing battle, our intelligence services, however well they do their work, cannot guarantee that they of all Dutch people always know exactly where they are. These two women have declared themselves to have escaped from the camp before the Turkish invasion. There have also been reports of escapes before. Our intelligence services keep track as best they can, but I can't guarantee they'll always be able to track everyone's whereabouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u132	Guarantees may also be dangerous in this respect. I get that. But I'm really worried about how unclear it is there. In this respect, I would also like to know how this Minister and the Cabinet intend to start the execution of the court order that is in place, and whether this Minister also understands that he will have talks with the United States about the offer they have made earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u133	As a result of the verdict, the cabinet has indicated that we are carrying out the obligation to do so. Of course. We are also appealing on fundamental grounds, but at the moment we are filling in this commitment, I would almost say 'literally'. There is a ministerial conference of the anti-ISIS coalition in Washington at the moment, where I cannot be present, because I am standing here. So there is a Director-General of mine and there are also the other European countries, with whom we are constantly working in this context. That is where the United States is present, and that is where the verdict and its consequences are discussed with all those countries. Mr. Chairman. I was at Mr Koopmans' point about the wedding coercion. We have put a lot of effort into this in recent years, by keeping our posts on alert and by conducting a public campaign every summer before school holidays aimed at the girls, and still often boys, who can become victims of it. If they are in that situation and report to the embassy on the spot, we will, in consultation with the National Node Wedding Control, see how we can help them and whether we can help them return to the Netherlands. Furthermore, we train our employees from the embassies where this plays in order to be able to handle this well, and we also have an emergency fund. Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert asked if the cabinet was prepared to open an embassy in Jerevan in Armenia, thinking that Armenia is in a geostrategically important area on the edges of Europe, between Russia, Turkey and Iran, and that there are hopeful signals about the modernisation of that country. As Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert know, we have 40 million available to increase the postal network, and I have also indicated to the Chamber how we could use the 40 million. That money was very welcome. I have also visited several posts that we have been able to expand for that reason. But there's no money left in that $40 million for the mail in Jerevan. I have seen that an amendment has been tabled for this purpose. I will deal with it in a moment, but the Chamber will take the royal route there by having a wish with financial consequences accompanied by corresponding cover. Mr Koopmans asked whether we could continue to invest in our diplomatic presence in the unstable ring around Europe. With the 40 million that was available, that ring has also made it possible to increase the postal network. I have also seen an amendment on this subject which delivers butter to the fish, so I shall deal with that in a moment. Mr Sjoerdsma asked to upgrade a number of embassy offices to fully-fledged embassies. He actually mentioned the whole list of embassy offices. Now I intend to send a letter in December about that investment in the postal network, and to indicate which embassy offices I want to turn into embassies. Because for a number of embassy offices, I think that's a logical step. I do not know whether it is wise to do it everywhere, because there is also a signal that your political presence is being increased, and there is a single case where I do not want to give that political signal, which is, in a sense, a compliment, at this time. But I would actually ask Mr Sjoerdsma to continue the debate on this in December. Mr Voordewind asked about the exchange of diplomatic services with the outside world. As I mentioned earlier in this debate, and more often, it is a pleasure to work with our diplomats. They are of excellent quality, so I do not have any immediate concern about that. But I agree with Mr Voordewind that you should be careful to maintain sufficient exchange with the outside world. One of the things I am very much committed to is that people from foreign affairs can also provide good services in other ministries. As the Chamber knows, I did it in a previous life, when I was still talking about the General Administrative Service, that is to say the top officials, which also includes the Foreign Affairs Department. So important steps have been taken for this exchange. By the way, it is also important to realise that we have about 2,000 local employees in those 140 countries where we are active. That is a huge group of people who, because they are local, are also very useful experiences from abroad, literally from outside. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place. There are a few more questions that I will try to answer in the second term, because I did not have the data now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u134	Let me see if all the questions have been answered adequately, or if there have been any questions left. I'm going to see Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u135	Let's talk about Armenia. The minister said he saw the amendment. The wish of the CDA Group, and certainly of my colleague Omtzigt, who has asked questions about this together with me, is very great. Now the Minister leaves us in suspense whether he will approve that amendment and open an embassy there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u136	Let me see if I have all the amendments here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u137	A number of amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u138	You know what, I'm going to go through the amendments I have here. It could just be that I have them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u139	Maybe it's good to mention the songs as well, then we know that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u140	I have in front of me the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Voordewind, which is indeed about the embassy in Jerevan, and which is also funded at different posts. Since this is a cover which, of course, means that we can spend a little less on other points, but free up the money for that post in Jerevan, I can leave this amendment to the opinion of the Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Koopmans and a number of others, which provide financial support for the intensification of the fight against marriage. That's a point I was just getting into. This also applies to the fact that cover has been found for this, so I can leave this to the Court's judgement too. Then there is the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Koopmans, who are committed to strengthening the network of posts for human rights and the security situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u141	That amendment now has number 14. That amendment has been amended, but it is the same amendment that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u142	That's what I've got right here. This also applies to human rights and the security situation. For this, a cover has been found within the Foreign Affairs budget in a way that can be done, so I shall leave that amendment to the Court's judgement. Then there is the amendment to item No. 13, by Mr Van der Staaij, asking for money to be made available for physical and psychological suffering as a result of violence and oppression, and specifically religious persecution. This amendment actually takes money away from human rights for this particular purpose. With this cover, I'm not that happy. As dear as the author, Mr Van der Staaij, is to me, I fear that this amendment should be discouraged. I do not have any other amendments at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u143	There is another amendment, in part No. 8, by members Van Ojik and Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u144	Then I'll get it and then I'll come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u145	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u146	Mr President, I find the amendment here, in a different pile. This calls for €900,000 to be released to support the rule of law within the European Union. Some of our posts are active in this. They currently have a budget of €100,000 per year. That's enough, too, they'll report me. I don't hear a cry for more money. Since I do not hear that call and I do have to find cover for it, I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u147	On the amendment, Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u148	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'd love to. In that sense, I am surprised... €100,000 is very little for unfortunately a reasonable number of countries in which the rule of law is under pressure. We all agree that our posts should play a role in supporting the democratisation movement. A total of €100,000 is available for this. Now the Minister says: I do not get a request from the posts for more money. But we can also turn it around, so the Minister says to the posts: an amendment has been adopted in the Lower House because the Lower House wants us to do even more in that area. Would the Minister care to take a look at it with those eyes? It'll be a million. That's not yet fat, but you can do a lot more with that than with €100,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u149	One reason why I am asking for more money from you but not from the posts is that there is a new EU fund that finances the commitment to the rule of law, which fortunately a large part of the EU is fighting for with us. That is also a valuable instrument. It also raises money. That is why I do not immediately see a reason to increase the Dutch contribution. We should do other things less for that too. You understand that this is also the consequence of an amendment. So we are fully committed to the objective, both nationally and at EU level, but I do not necessarily need extra money for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u150	Then I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u151	I had suggested to the Minister that the Netherlands should take the lead in forming a coalition that fights for freedom, for international cooperation and for the international rule of law, and against a coalition that is now being forged by the United States that undermines all that. I would very much like to have a reaction to that. I sensed some sympathy for enhanced international cooperation, but it was a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u152	I am very much in favour of strong international cooperation, but I would like to include the US in that. Mrs Ploumen has a point when she points out that in a number of areas we do not agree with the United States about climate policy and the nuclear agreement, but a coalition of countries against the United States, as she says now, I do not think it is logical to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u153	Then I haven't expressed myself well enough, or has the Minister... Well, anyway. What I said was that the U.S. is trying to build a coalition to undermine freedoms. Let me rephrase. I think we should put a protective wall against that. That could happen with a coalition of countries around the world, because we must have an answer to those efforts, not only from the United States, but also from the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u154	Where that is the case, this is the case regularly. I do remember a bit of a culture clash in the United Nations about access for women and girls to birth control. It was then and we do not agree with the United States at the moment and we have formed a coalition against it. The nuclear agreement with Iran is such an example. The climate agreement is such an example. Where that is the subject, we are having this discussion, but I would like to stress that we are having this discussion as you can have a discussion between good friends on issues on which you do not agree. But whether or not I have to misunderstand Mrs Ploumen, I find the ambition to form a coalition to stand regularly in front of the United States is not logical, because, fortunately, in many cases, I am a coalition with the United States, for example, the anti-ISIS coalition, which is currently being discussed in Washington.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u155	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u156	Then I'm gonna put it more neutrally. We have concluded that all kinds of autocratic leaders stand up to undermine the freedoms and human rights that we consider important. If we do not organise ourselves with like-minded countries, such efforts may well be successful. My plea is that instead of looking for friends on a case-by-case basis, it would be good to form a coalition that opposes undermining the international rule of law. There's no need to mention names. But we see that tendency. We agree on that. Can the Netherlands take the lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u157	We do that all the time. We have just discussed a point on which Mrs Ploumen and I agree, namely that we do want to be members of the Human Rights Council. Within the Human Rights Council, we form coalitions with those countries that are and want to be members. But these could be coalitions other than the coalitions that I form, for example, in NATO or anti-ISIS, or the coalitions that I form around climate or around the nuclear agreement with Iran. So yes, the Netherlands must constantly form coalitions, but there is not a possible permanent coalition that can respond to all these developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u158	Last Sunday, Evo Morales, leader of Bolivia, supported by a large part of his indigenous population, the first indigenous leader, was forced to resign by the military. A coup. Then there followed violence to this day. Mrs Arce, also of his party Movement Toward Socialism, was horribly dragged into the streets by soldiers. She was scolded and her hair was cut. Terrible. Any democrat should condemn this coup. Will the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u159	I am, of course, opposed to any form of violence. The elections in Bolivia were judged by the Organization of American States. It concluded that the elections were not free and fair. So the fact that there is now an attempt to organise new elections seems logical to me to follow up the observation made by the Organization of American States that this election of then President Morales did not follow the democratic rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u160	There's no evidence of that. There is also another report, which indicates that no evidence of fraud has been found. If the Minister does, I'd be happy to receive it. Even so, even so. There are certainly some comments to be made. We have that in several countries. But I hope that this minister will not find that justification for a coup. I hope, however, that the Minister does not find that to justify the expulsion of a President who has won the elections over and over again. I would therefore ask the Minister, and indeed every democrat in this Chamber, once again to condemn this coup. Morales wanted to hold new elections, but today it was also announced that he would not be allowed to participate in the elections of the self-proclaimed interim president Jeanine Añez. Can I also, please, hear from the Minister that at least he does not acknowledge this self-elected interim president?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u161	I think it is terrible that violence is being used, but I have to say that the Organization of American States is going down again and again, and I have looked very closely at the elections and considered that they have not been fair. It makes sense, however, that the outcome is that new elections will be held. Then I have only one wish, namely that they be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u162	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u163	The Minister has made it a sport tonight not to answer my questions. Let me repeat it. Does the Minister have proof of fraud? If so, can we have that? If he doesn't, is that what he's saying? Two. Is the Minister judging a coup or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u164	There's that report. I don't have that report here, but I know it exists. I am not going to talk about a coup when there is a report stating that these elections were not democratic. I think it makes sense, then, that new elections should be launched. That is not the answer Mrs Karabulut wants to hear, but I cannot always guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u165	Finally, Mr President. I know the Minister hardly ever gives the answers I'd like to hear. Fortunately, because me and the Minister differ fundamentally. But what I do want from the Minister is for him to answer the questions. I asked him if he had any evidence of fraud. If so, can he share it with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u166	I answered the question. There's that report. I don't have that here, but I suppose this is just available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u167	The Minister suggests that that report would contain evidence of fraud. Then I'd like to receive that report with the evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u168	I'll see if it's not just on the Internet and what else we can find out about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u169	Mrs. Karabulut, the minister says he's going to see if he's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u170	I'd like to receive that report that says there's been fraud, with evidence. It doesn't necessarily have to be tonight, but that would be nice. Otherwise, Tuesday's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u171	The majority, or at least a large part of the Bolivian population, is happy that Morales is gone and never wants to see him again. After so many years of socialist disdain, I can well imagine that. But I want to ask a question about Iran. The Minister discussed in detail my first-term questions about Iran's worst behaviour in the world in the written reply. He has not gone into one point, and I would like to raise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u172	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u173	That is Iran's role in relation to Islamic jihad, so the organization that has bombed Israel with more than 200 missiles. Both Islamic jihad and Iran, as well as all kinds of people who are experts in the financing of those organisations in Gaza, all say that Iran plays a major role in the financing of Islamic jihad. So you could say that the missile rain was partly financed by Islamic jihad. My question to the Minister is what he and the government are going to do when it comes to Iran's role in this matter? We can't let this pass, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u174	No, this is also a regular topic in the conversations I have with Iran. I last spoke to Minister Zarif in New York last September. At that time, I explicitly mentioned that I have great concerns not only about Iran's role in the development of nuclear weapons, but also its very negative role in the region and in supporting terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u175	Yes, about conversations and expressing concerns, I have repeatedly read all kinds of details in the written reply. That's what's coming up now. But that is not enough if it continues in this way for so long and if Iran plays such a big role in financing Islamic jihad? Then we need to take action, don't we? That's what the Minister should be fighting for, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u176	There are a number of sanctions against Iran. Measures have been taken. I also think it is my job to bring it up in discussions with ministers from countries that I have great concerns about, so I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u177	I call on the Minister to look further into what could happen more: actions to put further pressure on Iran, precisely on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u178	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. Are you ready, Mr. De Roon? I now give the floor to Mr Van Roon, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u179	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering the questions that have been asked. I begin my second term with one of the most defining moments from abroad in recent months, namely the death of terrorist leader Al-Baghdadi. The death of Al-Baghdadi teaches us a number of things that the cabinet and especially our foreign minister must take very seriously. First of all, it teaches us that the United States is our main ally. That is what the Minister said in his first term. It also teaches us that we must do everything we can to maintain the transatlantic link, so that the US is not only our main ally, but also remains. Not the Netherlands, not Brussels, but the Americans were able and willing to track down the biggest terrorist of this decade and to take it down professionally. We should not forget that. It is true that there are cracks and cracks in our foreign and security policy, as one of our colleagues said yesterday. But these are mainly caused by urophils, such as the sharked French President Macron, who recently declared NATO brain-dead. That kind of insanity is damaging our foreign and security policy. The death of a top terrorist doesn't do that. The American calls for more investment in security do not do that either. The death of Al-Baghdadi also teaches us that Turkey cannot be trusted at all. In my first term, I referred to the fact that Al-Baghdadi was hiding in his base, in the shadow of the state of Turkey. I believe that previous Cabinets and probably this cabinet have often looked away from the many indications of Turkey's evil play. There are many signs that a different relationship with Turkey is not only desirable, but also necessary. It is time for the cabinet to see that and act accordingly. I would like to make a point of this in the debates in the Chamber in the near future. Mr. Chairman. According to the PVV, the core of our foreign policy should be to promote and protect the Netherlands and the Dutch interests. When we look at this, we see that these interests are increasingly under pressure and are threatened by a shift on the geopolitical stage, but above all by the open borders, mass migration and political correctness. Along that line, I will file a number of motions. Mr. Chairman. It is in the context of our national security that this cabinet must do everything it can to prevent IS fighters from returning. Iraq has a working legal system and also a fine measure of punishment to teach the terrorist scum a lesson there. But then the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to drop that one Hague condition. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Iraq is prepared to try Dutch IS fighters who have committed crimes in Iraq, provided that the Netherlands does not interfere with the Iraqi criminal process and the level of punishment;]] [[calls on the Government not to impose additional conditions on the Iraqi Government for the trial of IS fighters with regard to the criminal trial and the measure of punishment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u180	Mr. Chairman. The common thread in yesterday's debate and today's debate is the political correctness and interference with which the House of Representatives wants to take other countries into account, while the Dutch interest disappears in the background. I have to say that many Members of Parliament have the idea that virtually all conflicts can be put out of the Chamber of Representatives. The ideal of making things work is a thought which, I note, has been bricked up in our departments as well. The same goes for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We see that, among other things, the increasing number of functions created in recent years are reflected. I notice a proliferation of special diplomatic officials. I am thinking of a migration envoy, but also of the human rights ambassador, the religious envoy and the climate envoy. I read that GroenLinks now even wants forest diplomats. Forest diplomats, chairman. It's true! As if our diplomats had nothing better to do. The PVV does not want left-wing clientelism in our foreign policy. The number of clientelism-inspired functions should not grow. It just needs to be pruned. I see that Mrs Ploumen does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u181	A brief question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u182	The common thread in my contribution to Parliament on behalf of the people we represent is that I defend the Constitution and check that the government does what it has to do to defend what is in the Constitution. That is the international legal order. Mr De Roon would do well to include himself. I think it would be a good idea to put right what I stand for. I'm in charge of my own input. What Mr De Roon thinks is fine with me. Apparently, he can afford the luxury of putting that international legal order aside. There are millions of people in the world fighting to make their voices heard, not to be raped, not to be threatened. I'm right in front of these people. We should all do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u183	I think that we have an excellent diplomatic service, which can address all these issues throughout the world and say something about them. I do not think that we need all the specialists in diplomacy called for by clientelism on the left. Mr. Chairman. Besides these bullshit functions there are also bullshit organisations; international organisations that do not in any way benefit the Dutch interest. For example, we get hit on the fingers by UN institutions every month for some dust on the pants. I'm paraphrasing the Minister here. And that, while countries like Saudi Arabia, Qatar, China and so on get away with everything and cycle through everything. They use the UN precisely to cover each other by whether or not to adopt resolutions in, for example, the UN Human Rights Council or the Security Council. As far as the Human Rights Council is concerned, the Minister has said here this evening that he thinks that things can work out and that the Netherlands can make a contribution to this. I must tell you that after so many years and so many attempts, I do not see it happening again. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the UN Human Rights Council has been systematically abused since its creation in 2006 to condemn Israel;]] [[Whereas false countries such as China, Saudi Arabia and Qatar are never condemned by the Council;]] [[calls on the Government to follow the example of the US by not taking part in that fake Human Rights Council and also to promote its dismantling internationally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u184	During this budget debate yesterday, a small profit was also achieved. That is the fact that D66 has declared the two-state solution dead. It is right, I would say, because an international recognition of another country that has the potential to become a terrorist state next to Israel is, of course, unacceptable. The fact that it remains quiet in Judea and Samaria is due to the fact that Sahal, the Israeli army, is there. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is committed to achieving the two-state solution;]] [[whereas it is completely unrealistic to expect that this "solution" could still be achieved and that would also be undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to stop working for the two-state solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u185	I would like to prevent Mr De Roon from being disappointed in the votes. My group will, of course, not support this motion. I have already said that the policy of this cabinet must be to bring this solution back to life through mouth-to-mouth and CPR. I would ask Mr De Roon not to pursue his dream anymore, because that is a dream that goes against international law, which violates the human rights of many Palestinians who live and work in that area, and which does not do Israel any good for its security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u186	I do not agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. Moreover, I think that my dream on this point is much more realistic than that of Mr Sjoerdsma, who believes in CPR and mouth-to-mouth breathing for a dead horse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u187	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u188	Showing leadership sometimes means swimming against the current and making decisions that do not please everyone, but which are simply good to protect our security interests, or those of Western democracies that concern us. I would therefore like to follow the example of the step taken by the US President earlier this year by tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Golan Heights are of crucial and lasting strategic importance for the only democracy in the Middle East;]] [[calls on the Government to acknowledge that the Golan Heights are part of Israel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u189	Another little support in the back of our great friend in the Middle East: Israel. That is the well-known motion which will not surprise you, but which I shall still be submitting again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Jerusalem is the capital of Israel;]] [[calls on the government to move the Dutch embassy of Tel Aviv to Jerusalem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u191	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I argued in the newspaper that we should not make so many motions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u193	Why in the paper? You can do that right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u194	I did it here too, Madam President. I am trying to set an example now, because I am not going to table any motions today. I have already tabled amendments, some of them together with others, but they do not need to be read again. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I also thank him, and that is my first point, for his support, at least as I understood it, for the amendment on strengthening consular assistance to the victims of marriage coercion and abandonment. There are appalling situations of boys and girls being taken to countries where they are forced to marry people they do not want, or who are left there. The amendment aims to increase the funding to support that consulate. I am tabling this amendment on behalf of colleagues Van Helvert, Sjoerdsma and Voordewind. Then the safety issue. I have also tabled an amendment with these gentlemen to make more money available for security and human rights. Of course, this security includes international crime, including human smugglers. We want there to be more money for that, and we found that money, too. That then goes to a flexible occupation of our posts in that ring around Europe, in North Africa and in the Middle East. The same applies to the amendment, including with others and by others, to the opening of a post in Armenia. This can also contribute to security, stability and rights in that ring around Europe. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two specific questions. The first concerns the motion I tabled a while ago on new weapons of mass destruction, which the Minister briefly spoke about. The Minister has promised that he will work to encourage new regulations and new protection, and that he will organise a conference on this subject. I would like to hear some more details and specifically whether the Netherlands will also make proposals to deal with this kind of thing. It is ultimately about the protection of Dutch and people around the world. Finally, on the initiative on Myanmar, the idea of starting not only with the International Criminal Court but also with the International Court of Justice, here in the Peace Palace, a case against Myanmar in the context of the horrible reports of genocide against the Rohingya. My question is whether the Minister can send a letter about the initiatives he is taking. That doesn't have to happen immediately, because I understand he's working on it right now. Can he inform the Chamber of the steps he is taking in the short term? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u195	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister. I have listened to him with pleasure, as I have already said. It is always with foreign policy to find the way between ambition and vision and ultimately pragmatism, I understand that very well. We can of course differ on what this balance looks like, but it is good to have been able to debate it again today. There were a few things I wanted to do in this debate. That hasn't quite worked out yet. I think it is important that we respond to and support all those democratic movements that are fighting against autocratic leaders in our foreign policy. The Minister has actually said that we are already doing so. I believe that there is a new situation in many countries and a new scale of the way in which that protest is organised. I would like us, as the Minister himself said, to see if we can do more about this at EU level. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are peaceful protest movements emerging all over the world pursuing democracy and freedom;]] [[Whereas they are regularly exposed to intimidation, persecution and violence;]] [[considers that support for these peaceful protest movements by diplomatic representations from the Netherlands and other EU Member States is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government, together with other EU Member States, to identify ways to step up support for these peaceful protest movements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u197	Mr. Chairman. To introduce the second motion, the following. I listened carefully to the Minister's arguments. He said that the cabinet had laid down its vision on the common security policy and on the EU's strategic agenda, and he also mentioned defence policy at the beginning of this cabinet period. I would nevertheless like to call for a more fundamental review and to insist on the plea for it. Because I think that the specific aspect of this could be to identify not only the rapid changes that are taking place in foreign policy, but also to make a coherent policy and, if necessary, make organisational adjustments to your organisation. Frankly, I thought the Minister's reaction was a little defensive on that point. I would ask him to think about that again. That can be bigger, that can be smaller, that can be shorter, that can be longer, but I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a review of foreign policy took place for the last time in 1995;]] [[Whereas, in the meantime, fundamental changes in international relations have taken place, including new issues;]] [[considers that foreign policy should be consistent with relevant international developments as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to identify these new challenges, review the policy as necessary, and inform the Court of Justice by mid-year at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I very much welcome Mr Van Ojik's 'Court of Justice' on Mr Voordewind's amendment and, in the context of the coalition unity, Mr Van Ojik's amendment and Mr Sjoerdsma's amendment, Mr Koopmans and myself for an embassy in Armenia. Super nice. I'm very happy about it. I think it's good for the Netherlands, good for Armenia and good for all of us. That's really nice. I have asked a number of questions about China, but I suggest that we give the Minister's letter at the procedural meeting somewhere for a general discussion or something like that, so that we can discuss it in detail again, because I do not think we are done with that. Madam President. I'll start by reading the motions, because I've only got three minutes left. I would like to put three motions to the Chamber because I think it is important to have a ruling on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber with the motion-Van der Laan-Geselschap c.s. (29754, No. 513) stated that Syrians should be tried where they committed their crimes and called on the government to look at and facilitate the possibility of trial by local authorities;]] [[Whereas the government itself has not so far taken advantage of these opportunities, while the local Syrian-Kurdish authorities have offered to prosecute and prosecute foreign ISIS fighters in North-East Syria and have requested support from Western countries, including the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the external international legal adviser has delivered an opinion on an international tribunal for the trial of members of ISIS for international crimes and other crimes;]] [[noting that the court in The Hague has held in a summary proceedings that the State should at this stage be allowed to examine (further) the possibility of local trial;]] [[invites the Government, taking into account the advice of the international advisor, to further examine whether Syrians from the Netherlands in Syria can be tried by the local Syrian-Kurdish authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, like the German judge, the court of Rotterdam has qualified the Syrian rebel group Ahrar al-Sham as a terrorist organisation;]] [[noting that the Ahrar al-Sham government considers jihadist and salafistic;]] [[Whereas the Dutch Government may, independently of international consensus, add organisations to the national terrorist penalty list in order to prevent terrorism and its financing;]] [[calls on the Government to take over the judgment of the judge, to convey it within the EU and, in the absence of consensus, to add Ahrar al-Sham to the national terrorist penalty list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-22]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u199	Finally, Madam President. Because we want to stop the violence currently taking place in Israel as quickly as possible and because we really want to stop the expansion of settlements, but also because we want to stop the undemocratic nature of the Palestinian Authority and make sure that the Palestinian territories can work towards an autonomous economy, otherwise it will never work with that two-state solution, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas efforts to preserve and achieve the two-state solution in the Middle East peace process are and will continue to be important;]] [[Whereas an autonomous economy is important for the establishment of a viable Palestinian State;]] [[noting that the violence has flared up to unacceptable levels in recent days;]] [[noting that a Dutch diplomat has been appointed as an EU envoy for the Middle East Peace Process and is soon to enter a new EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy;]] [[calls on the Government to use all possible pressure with EU Member States to stop the violence;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a more active role of the EU in the Middle East Peace Process, including Israel in the ongoing expansion of illegal settlements and Palestinians in the divided political leadership and in the absence of democratic elections;]] [[In addition, calls on the Government to pay greater attention from the EU to the autonomous economic development of the Palestinian territories,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u200	As I said, I am very pleased with the Voordewind and others amendment. I also welcome the amendment on the consular services of the Netherlands, also in the context of the coalition's joint action. That is what I am saying to Mr Van Ojik. I also welcome the joint amendment tabled by Sjoerdsma and Koopmans. I actually thought that was coalition, too, but I don't know if we did it together, maybe just to give Mr. Van Ojik something again. Perhaps we did not do that with the entire coalition, but I was assuming that the amendment tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Koopmans was also by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert. But at least Van Helvert, and with that the entire CDA group, can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u201	It is perhaps a good thing to mark that every time the coalition succeeds in agreeing on something when it comes to foreign policy, Mr Van Helvert will at least refer to me. I hope that will happen very often in the near future, because then we will have a decisive foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u202	The Van Ojik doctrine is now well into it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u203	That's it. Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u204	Mr. Chairman. The Minister says that NATO is not brain-dead, and we should not put her in the dirt. I didn't ask the Minister to do that either. I did ask him to think for himself. That is perhaps too much to ask, when your foreign policy is so linked to NATO and the United States. But I asked the Minister to think for himself about an alternative to the permanent war. I asked him to think about an alternative without nuclear weapons and militarisation. I asked him to think about preventing and continuing a new cold war. In short, I asked him to think about a new recipe for 75 years of peace, which is currently under threat. Apparently, that is too much to ask of this minister. He'd rather stick his head in the sand. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NATO is in crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate alternatives to NATO, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u205	I said it in my first term: Minister, don't think in "can't," but think in possibilities. But I understand now that if the Minister speaks of "can't," he simply doesn't want to. But sometimes he struggles to pronounce that. Because how is it that you have another meeting with the Saudis this afternoon, beheading people, locking up women's rights activists, killing children in Yemen and seeing a journalist in pieces, and that you have no problem with all of that, but at the same time you refuse to talk to the Syrian Democratic Council, for example, because you have to acknowledge that your strategy failed in Syria? That's hypocritical and double standards. There are other examples of this. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to engage with the Syrian Democratic Council on peace in Syria and the imprisonment of Dutch extravagants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u206	With regard to Saudi Arabia, the Minister said that impunity actually continues, in all respects. He can at least execute the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Saudi Arabia will host the G20 next year;]] [[believes that there can be no business as usual with Saudi Arabia as long as all those responsible for the murder of journalist Khashoggi have not been tried after a fair and transparent trial and that this country continues to commit serious war crimes in Yemen;]] [[Calls on the Government to promote, internationally, the search for a different location for the G20 by 2020;]] [[also invites the Government, if the Netherlands is invited to participate in the G20 in Saudi Arabia, to refrain from doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u207	Then we go to Israel, where Israeli politics, with Prime Minister Netanyahu first, repeatedly violates international law and where there is also impunity, also seen from the position of the Dutch government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in an investigation earlier this year the UN expressed very strong criticism of Israel's use of violence against demonstrators in Gaza, killing 189 people and killing many thousands of wounded, including the use of targeted violence against journalists, medics and others who did not pose a threat;]] [[Considering that until now the Israeli authorities have condemned only one military man to a one-month community service while killing a 14-year-old child who was not a threat;]] [[calls on the Government to contact Israel in order to express indignation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u208	I would like to ask the Minister how he feels as a human being that he rightly condemns rocket fire from Gaza because it scares innocent civilians in Israel, but does not dare to speak out about killing so many innocent people, including a 14-year-old boy who was not a threat. How does that make him feel? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion on our own past, the black page of our history. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the court has held that children of Indonesians executed by the Netherlands are also entitled to compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the civil law regime previously established for widows of Indonesians who have been executed under civil law so as to include children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u209	Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, there are a number of questions that have not been answered. As I said, I am truly shocked by what is happening in Bolivia. A democratically elected leader, whatever you think of the electoral process, has been deported by military forces; a coup. Rough violence is being used by extreme right-wing militias, who are also racist. The Minister is right to say that elections must be held. Evo Morales wanted to be part of that too. Does the Minister believe and want to make it clear that Morales should also be able to participate in these elections? Because the self-proclaimed interim president said today that he shouldn't. I know why, because Morales was probably gonna win. Is the Minister also prepared to state whether or not he recognizes the current, self-proclaimed interim president? Finally, will the Minister condemn these undemocratic practices, this coup? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u210	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u211	Thank you, Mr President. And also thanks to the Minister for his enthusiastic response in the first term. With a perhaps higher voltage than otherwise, he has shed his light on our foreign policy. And I have to say that it tastes like more, also because what was said was of great importance. He first stressed how incredibly important it is for us, for us as the Netherlands, for our security............................................................................................................................................................................................ I appreciate that very much. The same applies to his commitment to the further unification of that foreign policy. I thought the phrase that you shouldn't scorch some things in advance was wise. That is also what a compromise is all about. At the beginning of his answer, he also rightly pointed out the PvdA and GroenLinks: that compromise always means that you also have to give something that you can't just take. I hear Mrs Ploumen say: you have to tell the PvdA. She's got a point! Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the support expressed by this Minister for European Magnitsky legislation and the letter he will send. The Chamber is now also working on a similar letter on behalf of parliamentarians. Let us ensure that these two initiatives, which are complementary from the cabinet and from the Chamber, are complementary. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled amendments together with a number of colleagues. Some of them have already been explained. Of course, I wholeheartedly support the establishment of an embassy in Armenia. Together with others, we have also tabled an amendment to strengthen our postal network, to have more capacity abroad, eyes and ears, but also a mouth to speak out in the field of security and human rights, to tackle marriage pressure more. I think that these are sensible and important steps that we can take together tonight. Mr. Chairman. I have four motions which I will read briefly for the sake of time. The first is about the importance of being represented with embassies all over the world. With embassy offices, we're actually a little shorthanded. It costs the same thing, it has a different name, but it just means a lower status in the bilateral relationship, and that's actually a shame. So that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for the Kingdom to be well represented worldwide;]] [[Whereas embassies have a more full function and appearance than embassy offices;]] [[calls on the government to make existing embassy offices more sober, where possible, to become fully-fledged embassies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u212	Then it is incredibly important, at least as I have said myself, that we offer these million Dutch people the best possible service abroad. We're digitizing that service. However, as long as this digitisation is not complete, consular departments remain of great importance to ensure that people can also be personally helped in such a post. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch people abroad are entitled to count on the very best services;]] [[calls on the Government to establish that, when new foreign posts are opened, a consular unit is always part of the post until all services are digitised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Koopmans. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u213	I already congratulated the Minister for his commitment to a European Magnitsky law. I think that we also need a safety net in case Hungary, undoubtedly partly on Russia's initiative, decides to veto that plan eventually. And that's national Magnitsky legislation. I'd rather not see that. Let me be very clear about that. In the European context, it is many times better. But I see that Scandinavian countries, for example, are now working on that safety net, that Baltic countries already have it and that the United Kingdom already has it. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government's efforts to achieve a European Magnitsky law are appreciated;]] [[Considering that the motion-Omtzigt c.s. on the Magnitsky Act invites the government to prepare legislation in the Netherlands if there is insufficient support in the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to double efforts to achieve a European Magnitsky law;]] [[calls on the Government to also draw up a National Magnitsky Act if the European variant fails by 31 January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u214	Finally, human rights. I have argued that the Netherlands is unique in a number of areas. We have more non-believers than believers. We are the first country in the world to open the marriage to lhbti'ers. We have an incredible freedom of the press. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands will have a seat on the United Nations Human Rights Council in the period 2020-2022;]] [[calls on the Government to make freedom of the press, lhbti rights and the protection of religious minorities, including non-believers and dissidents, a spearhead in the UN Human Rights Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Koopmans, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u215	Yes, Mr Voordewind is underneath, I even mentioned his name first. Or is something wrong? No, I'm fine. I saw Mr Voordewind running to the wings, and usually that's a bad sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u216	It's very domestic here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u217	I am also getting off the stage, Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u218	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u219	Speaking of women's rights, I was just talking about the violence and the coup in Bolivia. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u220	To be honest, I thought Minister Blok had spoken very well about this. I'll join him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u221	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u222	Does Mr Sjoerdsma, like myself, find it unacceptable that an elected president should be forced off by military forces and racist violence against the indigenous population? Would Mr Sjoerdsma like to work with me to ensure that this is at least made known internationally? Because the Minister didn't want to go that far. I actually expect that from a race Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u223	Violence must be condemned at all times. That's what D66 does consistently, because "human rights" doesn't have one side. It's not for or against any particular party. It is for human rights and for international law. At the moment when violence is taking place against indigenous peoples, you can and must condemn it. But I support what the Minister said about the democratic process in that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u224	I am truly bewildered that someone from the Democrats66 does not want to call a military coup by name and does not want to condemn it. What democracy are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u225	I notice that Mrs Karabulut is rather easily bewildered or furious. She can sit down now, but I would have liked her to have seen the same discomfort and anger when everything was taken from the Venezuelan population in Venezuela. When a president stole the elections, banished the Supreme Court and dismantled the parliament, it took years and years before the SP dared to say anything at all. The only reason was that there was then a so-called socialist salvation state. Mrs Karabulut should not accuse me of double standards, if she herself has such a track record. That's what's wrong with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u226	You may respond briefly to this, but I should like to move on to Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u227	It merely confirms Mr Sjoerdsma's hypocrisy. I, too, have criticized and criticized the whole process in Venezuela and Maduro, for sure. But what I am not from, not from Bolivia, not from Venezuela, not from a right-wing country, nor from Erdogan, is a coup and the undemocratic expulsion of leaders. Not even when the US wants to do that from the outside with Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u228	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u229	There are many parties in this Parliament that apply double standards. Some parties do not want to see Turkey occasionally committing abuses. Other parties do not want to see Israel occasionally commit wrongdoing. Other parties do not want to see that Hamas in Gaza is sometimes problematic. Other parties don't want to see that in Venezuela. I'm not one of them. As far as I am concerned, human rights and international law are always and everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u230	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and specifically for his commitment to sanctioning sexual violence against women as part of European sanctions legislation. I very much hope that he will be able to gather the support he himself is seeking. I would like to hear whether there is anything we can do about this as a parliament. Mr. Chairman. The international legal order is important for the Netherlands and the world to keep us safe and to keep us free. Sometimes we have to do more than in other times, and in these times we have to do so! That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that international cooperation and the international legal order are increasingly under pressure from the emergence of authoritarian leaders;]] [[Whereas Article 90 of the Dutch Constitution states that the government is actively committed to promoting the international legal order;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lead in the creation of a new assertive international coalition for strengthening multilateral organisations and for coordinated protection of universal human rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u232	Mr. Chairman. I am a co-signatory of a motion by Mr Sjoerdsma on the substantive commitment to the Human Rights Council. I think it is important for the Netherlands to use its position in that council to reform the way it operates. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that universal human rights are under pressure and that the stature and influence of the UN Human Rights Council are subject to erosion when countries known as notorious human rights violators are members of that Council;]] [[Whereas previous proposals made by the Netherlands can make an important contribution to the strengthening and improvement of the UN Human Rights Council;]] [[calls on the Government, during its membership of the UN Human Rights Council, to intensify its previous commitment to strengthening and improving, including a substantive underpinning of candidate countries' candidacy and the explicit invitation of countries to stand as candidates, and to make it a priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u233	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij will shortly be making a motion on my behalf. There are some issues on which Mr Van der Staaij and I find each other, and I also think it is good to step over differences sometimes, because then you can achieve something very good for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u234	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of my brief time, I shall read out two motions for resolutions, but I shall not do so until I have thanked the Minister for his positive response to the amendment on the Dutch embassy in Armenia. I would also like to thank all the coalition parties for this, as well as all the parties who will still support that amendment. Mr President, I shall quickly proceed to the reading of two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Court has ruled that products from Israeli companies in the West Bank, the Golan or East Jerusalem should be labelled as such;]] [[Considering that this ruling is based on EU Regulation 1169/2011 which makes such labelling mandatory for all countries and all territories;]] [[Considering the injustice of imposing this obligation only on Israel and not on other countries which occupy territories, such as Turkey in relation to the occupation of parts of Cyprus;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to ensure that such labelling applies only to all occupied territories, or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u236	Mr President, a short motion on the diplomatic service. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a good balance between men and women, as well as a diversity of backgrounds, beliefs and opinions, lead to a better reflection of Dutch society when it comes to diplomatic service;]] [[Whereas the diplomatic class can be used for this purpose, as well as other forms of recruitment and exchange with other departments, organisations and companies;]] [[calls on the Minister for Foreign Affairs to shape the department's recruitment policy in such a way that a good reflection of Dutch society is achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u238	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u239	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The merchant and the reverend came by again. That's very familiar with the State Department. It is also said that they have determined Dutch foreign policy since 1648, the end of the Eighty Years' War. But the VVD Group has never done so by sending only a Koopman to this debate. But that aside. I have two motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ten Broeke/Van Bommel motion (23432), No. 424) called for a consistent labelling policy and invited the government to advocate at EU level the development of guidelines for products from the Western Sahara annexed by Morocco;]] [[having regard to the fact that EU Member States have not been willing to do so on request, with which the labelling Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices is not applied equally in equal cases;]] [[Whereas this leads to inconsistent labelling policies, incomplete consumer information and legal inequality towards Israeli producers;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at EU level to repeal the relevant Directive by the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u240	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Van der Staaij spoke very clearly. Mr Koopmans might take the balance in this Chamber a little to the wrong side by just being the merchants. So I would ask Mr Van der Staaij to deliver Mr Bishop in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u241	The delegation of Mr Bishop helps, in any case, to get motions with Mr Van Helvert very easily. I didn't realize it at first. Why is he so much easier on him than he is on me? But that was just to get motions- "Bisschop/Van Helvert." That's right. Mr President, back to my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u242	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u243	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many Papuans are in a disadvantaged situation;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to denounce discrimination against Papua's internationally and to help improve their socio-economic situation through, for example, support for projects that strengthen education in Western Papua, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u244	Finally, I would like to say a few words about my amendment to item No. 13, which the Minister responded to. The Minister actually said: sympathetic to the point, but does this really fit in with the pot that has been indicated as cover? I understand that point. We sat there looking for ourselves. It is a bit at the interface between development cooperation and human rights policy. So we are going to take a closer look to see if we can find a better, a different cover for this. For the time being, therefore, we are simply keeping the amendment in the air. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u245	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. That also brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. 25 motions have been tabled, so we need a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u246	I shall resume the meeting and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A large number of motions have been tabled, which I shall go into. There were a number of questions from the first term and a few more have been added. I'd like to start with the questions. Mr Sjoerdsma had asked for a response in the first term to the proposal made by a large number of journalists' organisations concerning a UN Special Representative for the Safety of Journalists. I understand the continued reaction of the Secretary-General in that, of course, UNESCO is already very active in this area. UNESCO is also the initiator of the World Press Freedom Day, which we can happily organise here next year. There is also a special UN rapporteur on freedom of expression: David Kaye. His mandate includes the security of journalists. So I understand the Secretary-General's fear that you will get a double, but I would like to say that the Netherlands will continue to make a full commitment to the security and freedom of journalists in all the platforms where we operate. Mr Koopmans asked me to come back in a letter to the somewhat cryptic description that I had to give to see if we could take part with similar countries in the process that Gambia has started vis-à-vis Myanmar. I'd be happy to say so. He also asked what I would like to do in the coming year with regard to the implementation of his motion on new types of weapons of mass destruction that are possible through new technologies. An example is the deployment of groups of drones, but that can also be done in other ways. At a major international conference in Amsterdam, where drone producers will be present, I would like to talk in a separate section about the use of drones for this purpose. I want to have this discussion not only here in the Netherlands, but also with all the other countries where this production is concerned. That is a rather long list, including countries such as India, Iran, Russia and Turkey: not all countries with which the consultation will be equally easy. In addition, because we are already very active on this issue, we remain committed to agreements in the UN. I have already indicated that a ban in advance often clashes with developments around, for example, autonomous driving or civil applications which may indeed be desirable. However, in addition to the conference I have just mentioned, we remain committed to this in all possible international fora. With regard to the freezing of arms exports to Turkey, Mrs Karabulut asked whether arms supplies could still be made under existing licences. I am currently mapping that out with Mr Kaag. There are about 20 current permits. So they're legal. We must now look at how the freezing decision relates to licences already issued at the time of the decision. I have to come back to that in writing, together with Mr Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u248	Mr Koopmans, on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u249	I am grateful to the Minister for his commitment to these new weapons of mass destruction. He also said 'we will continue to do so in the UN fora', but I had previously understood that he wanted to organise an activity in the first part of the year, or that he wanted to join an activity, where a number of other matters that the motion asks for could be worked out. Do I remember that well? And if so, does the Minister intend to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u250	In the short term, we will organise our own part at the drones conference on the use of weapons of mass destruction. I would like to keep the option open to follow-up meetings, but of course that always requires careful preparation to ensure that it is also a success. So I cannot make a firm commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u251	Does the Minister also wish to involve in the sending of the letter and in the identification of existing or ongoing contracts the provision of spare parts for contracts already awarded in recent years, so that nothing is exported in this area? There are a lot of them. I had also asked him whether, to reassure him, he could assure us that no more weapons would be delivered as long as Turkey occupied North-East Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u252	I will answer the question about spare parts, but the answer to the second question is linked to that letter. Because if you want that insurance from me right now, I need to know how to deal with already promised permits. You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u253	The Minister will return to the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u254	Mrs Karabulut once again asked about the OAS report on the elections in Bolivia. That's just available online. The conclusions in that report are: there have been serious irregularities; the election result is uncontrollable; because of manipulation in computer systems it is statistically unlikely that Mr Morales won the elections in the first round. On that basis, the Organisation of American States calls for a total new presidential election. Mrs Karabulut also asked about Bolivia if Mr Morales could participate in new elections. That really is a constitutional question for Bolivia. Countries may or may not have restrictions on the number of time limits which the same person may take part in presidential elections. It's not for me to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u255	Mrs Karabulut, a question, without having to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u256	I will come back to that first point. The second point concerns the following. It fits within the Constitution, but the current self-proclaimed interim president has stated that he should not be allowed to participate. If it were within the framework of the Bolivian constitution, bearing in mind that this president has been set aside by military forces, that it is a coup and that it is undemocratic, does the Minister consider that he can participate in that democratic process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u257	Now Mrs Karabulut asks me to judge the constitution of Bolivia. Really, I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u258	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u259	The Minister also had an opinion on the constitution of Venezuela. If that's possible, why couldn't it be about Bolivia? Could the Minister please answer that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u260	Because I don't know that constitution, and because I don't want to interfere in that process either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u261	Would the Minister like to come back to that at a later date? Because I still feel like I'm not really getting the answer, or I'm not getting the honest answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u262	I would immediately like to admit that I do not know 160 constitutions by heart, not even Bolivia's. I think it would be good if Mrs Karabulut herself read back the Acts, but she actually said that I didn't care if people were beheaded in Saudi Arabia or a journalist was cut up. They are your words, but I cast that far from me. I have discussed this repeatedly with great disgust. Indeed, Saudi Minister Jubeir was here today. He was received in the House of Representatives and received by me. Such a conversation as today, as I have done before, I use to indicate that I believe that there is a need to clarify those responsible for the murder of Khashoggi and that they should be condemned. I have made a clear appeal to improve human rights, as have the position of women and journalists. I need the contacts with the Minister to make that message very clear. That doesn't mean this is a confession of decapitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u263	Mrs Karabulut, this issue has been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u264	That's good to hear. I do not think I have said that, but I will certainly read the Acts more often. The point I wanted to make, and what the Minister confirms here, is about hypocrisy and double standards. The Minister says where Saudi Arabia is concerned, which decapitates, kills and is responsible for tens of thousands of dead children in Yemen, that he needs those contacts to make his point. But when it comes to the Syrian Democratic Council or the reality in Syria or Russia, he says he doesn't want to know about it. In other words, with friends of autocrats and dictators representing the interests of the West...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u265	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u266	...the minister does business, but he doesn't deal with the other. I think that's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u267	Mrs Karabulut has tabled a motion on the Syrian Democratic Council. I actually wanted to respond constructively to that, but I do not really know if that is very welcome after this very Karabuluteske 'bíj-drá-gé'. Mrs Karabulut asked me how I personally felt about the message about rocket fire and the death of a 14-year-old boy. I think they're both very horrible. But Mrs Karabulut also understands that that question was superfluous. Then Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Ploumen, who both asked me how I would like to respond to the desire to renew and improve the Human Rights Council. In the first term, I asked Mrs Ploumen for an opportunity to come back to the concrete proposals. The first point, which has been mentioned earlier, but which remains very important, is that Israel should be targeted specifically in the context of agenda item 7, while many other countries do not. That's very unfair. The Netherlands has always spoken out against this, with many other countries. We'll keep doing that. Mrs Ploumen also mentioned that the nomination of new members should be subject to higher demands and that they should also qualify in their presentation to the UNGA by indicating their objectives and their contribution to improving human rights. A third improvement that we want to achieve, and I believe that Mrs Ploumen too, is that, at the end of membership, each country will be accountable for what they have achieved and what concrete contribution they have made to improving human rights. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to move on to the motions. In his motion, Mr De Roon asked for item No. 15 not to impose additional conditions on the Iraqi government for the trial of IS fighters. This motion I must advise against. The Netherlands is against the death penalty and wants a proper course of justice. Mr De Roon's motion for a resolution 16 calls on the government to follow the example of the US by not taking part in the Human Rights Council. I should also advise against this, because we think it is important to reform the board from the inside and to be able to address abuses in countries there. Mr De Roon's motion for a resolution 17 calls on the Government to stop working for the two-state solution with regard to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I must also advise against that motion. It is indeed difficult, and more difficult than it has been in the past, but it is still the logical and desirable outcome. I also advise against this motion. Mr De Roon's motion for a resolution 18 calls on the government to acknowledge that the Golan Heights are part of Israel. International law prohibits the addition of territory of another country by means of conquest. For that reason, I also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr De Roon asked the government to move the Dutch embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. The Netherlands, fortunately with many other countries, is still committed to the two-state solution. It certainly does not contribute to moving the embassy to Jerusalem. This will require a comprehensive peace agreement first. So I also advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 20 by Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen. It invites the government, together with other EU Member States, to identify ways to strengthen support for peaceful protest movements. I agree with Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen that peaceful democratic demonstrations are of great value. They're part of the fundamental rights. I have already indicated that it is the full commitment of our embassies to provide support where possible. I can give this motion judgment chamber. The next motion, in part No. 21, also belongs to Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen, and calls on the government to identify new challenges, to review policy if necessary and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I agree with Mr Van Ojik that we had a good debate on this. I am of the line that you start with a strategy, as we did at the beginning of this cabinet period, and that you are going to fill it out very pragmatically afterwards. I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to rewrite a new strategy. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 22 Mr Van Helvert asked the government, taking into account the advice of the international advisor, to investigate further whether Syrians from the Netherlands in Syria could be tried by local Syrian-Kurdish authorities. Mr Van Helvert knows that the Netherlands and a number of countries are seriously exploring the possibility of trial with Iraq. That is not easy, but the discussions are really about the conditions under which it will hopefully be possible. I want to keep going through that trajectory. As for the possibility suggested by the motion, the Syrian Democratic Forces have so far indicated that they do not want such a trial. The report by the international advisor, to which Mr Van Helvert refers, also raises questions about this by the international advisor, for example with regard to sovereignty. That is in the field of the state of Syria by a non-state actor, the SDF. I would like to check with my European partners, with whom we also talk to Iraq, whether they are willing to explore this with me, knowing how difficult this other route is. In this sense, I hope to meet Mr Van Helvert with these limitations, which are very real. I think I can come back to that in a couple of weeks. I would ask Mr Van Helvert to hold the motion. Then I'll say I'll be coming up with a letter in a month, exploring the possibilities. Then we can look further at whether the motion is still needed or whether Mr Van Helvert is already satisfied. In short, the request is to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u268	Thanks for the answer. It's a really important case. I'm glad the Minister wants to take a very serious look at it, although I know it's very difficult. I appreciate that. It is precisely because the Chamber, the court in The Hague, and also the international advisor, have given a ruling on this matter, that I think it is very good and I would like to continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u269	At the request of Mr Van Helvert, I propose his motion (35300-V, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u270	It is "Mrs. Laan-Geselschap" and not "Mrs. Van der Laan-Geselschap."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u271	The motion in part No. 23 by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It invites the government to take over and pass the judgment of the judge within the EU, and, in the absence of consensus, to add Ahrar al-Sham to the national terrorist sanction list. At the moment, it is not on the international list, but I am willing to discuss it with other EU countries to ask if there is such a willingness. So I would like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. This calls for unanimity. The motion in part No. 24 also belongs to Mr Van Helvert. It invites the Government to work for an active role of the EU in the Middle East Peace Process, addressing Israel on the ongoing expansion of illegal settlements and Palestinians on the divided political leadership and lack of democratic elections, and to give more attention from the EU to the economic development of the Palestinian territories. I can only agree with this, so judge Chamber. The motion in part No. Mrs Karabulut asked the government to investigate alternatives to NATO and to inform the Chamber. I have already indicated that the Court of Auditors' report and the study of the International Institute for Strategic Studies both indicate how unrealistic this is. In addition, I have indicated how important I am to a precious alliance with historical roots, between countries that share a long tradition. I wouldn't want to throw that too hard. So I must discourage this motion. Then there is the motion I have just referred to, including Mrs Karabulut. That's the motion in part No. 26. He's asking the government to talk to the Syrian Democratic Council. It overlaps strongly with Mr Van Helvert's motion. He's actually asking that, too. I would like to ask Mrs Karabulut, like Mr Van Helvert, to hold this motion until I come forward with a letter about the possibilities that I see in it in a month's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u272	I want to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u273	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (35300-V, No. 26). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u274	The motion in part No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u275	The motion in part No. 27 calls on the Government to promote, internationally, the search for another location for the G20 and, if the Netherlands is invited to participate in the G20 in Saudi Arabia, requests that it refrain from doing so. The Netherlands is not a member of the G20 and is therefore not in a position to find anything of the location where it takes place. I don't know if we're invited yet. I'm not going to anticipate that either. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 27. The motion in part No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u276	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u277	Is the Minister prepared to inform us when the Netherlands will be asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u278	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u279	Fine. Right away, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u280	We always have. Then the motion to part No. 28. It notes that until now the Israeli authorities have condemned only one military member to a one-month community service while killing a 14-year-old child who was not a threat, and calls on the government to contact Israel to express indignation. I have expressed my deep concern at the number of victims and the great importance of research in previous debates. We have sent these messages to Israel. I have done so myself; there is no longer a colleague of mine there. So I transferred that to the ambassador myself. I'm not going to anticipate the results of the other investigations, so I have to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u281	Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u282	This is not anticipating an investigation. This is already a conviction, namely a one-month community service for shooting a 14-year-old boy who was not a threat. The Minister said: I feel a lot about that, whether it's rocket attacks or the life of an innocent Palestinian. One thing he clearly condemns. This is a motion on a ruling that has already been made and not on an ongoing investigation. We'll probably wait another four years for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u283	Mr. Chairman. I really want the full package of the investigations before I make a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u284	Then you simply put the motion to the vote, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u285	Then the motion to part No. 29, which calls on the Government to extend the previously established civil law scheme for widows of Indonesians who have been executed under the law, so that children are included. There is a judgment of the court that there is no limitation period, but the court has not yet ruled whether compensation should also be granted to these children. So it's an ongoing procedure. I do not think it is right to give an opinion on this at the moment. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u286	This is, of course, not about that procedure, but about opening it up, because it has been established by the court that there is no limitation period, not even for children. This is therefore separate from the ongoing procedure. What the minister referred to earlier is that he didn't want to do that yet, because the judge had yet to give a ruling. But he has now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u287	The court has not yet ruled on the award of compensation to the children. The cabinet is considering the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u288	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u289	Is it then perhaps an idea for this minister that I should hold the motion instead of dissuade it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u290	You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u291	And that then the minister in due course, after that ruling is there... When does the Minister expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u292	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u293	...come back to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u294	Yeah, I'd give you my word, but I don't know when that verdict will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u295	Are you holding the motion, Mrs. Karabulut? Well, you have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u296	That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u297	Then motion to part No. 30 by Mr Sjoerdsma, in which the government is invited to upgrade existing embassy offices to fully-fledged embassies where possible in a sober manner. I indicated that I would like to come up with a letter in December, in which I will discuss the development of the postal network and also the possibilities I see for upgrading embassy offices. So I would also ask Mr Sjoerdsma to hold the motion until that letter in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u298	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I do. We do not vote on it, but I do hope the Minister understands, I think that is a broad feeling in the Chamber that this is some sort of free upgrade of relationships, so the trend should be this way. If the Minister takes that with him in the letter, I'm prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u299	When writing the letter, I am very aware of the presence of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u300	On this point, the motion is in part No. 30 arrested?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u301	At the request of Mr Sjoerdsma, I propose his motion (35300-V, No. 30). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u302	Then the motion to part No. 31, also by Mr Sjoerdsma, together with Mr Van Helvert and Mr Koopmans. This motion calls on the government to establish that, when new foreign posts are opened, a consular department is always part of the post until all services are digitised. I agree, so I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u303	Yes. The motion in part No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u304	The motion in part No. 32 by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind, the government calls for the efforts to achieve a European Magnitsky Act to be doubled and for a national Magnitsky Act to be drawn up if the European variant fails by 31 January 2020. I am already committed to this with full energy, fortunately together with a whole range of other countries. Doubling won't add anything to that. I really do not believe in national sanctions in a European Union with free movement of persons and money. So I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 33 of Mr Sjoerdsma and many other signatories called on the government to make freedom of the press, Ihbti rights and the protection of religious minorities, including non-believers and dissidents, a spearhead in the UN Human Rights Council. I can only fully agree with that. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u305	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u306	Then the motion to part No. 34 by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It calls on the government to take the lead in the formation of a new assertive international coalition for strengthening multilateral organisations and for coordinated protection of universal human rights. As this motion has now been formulated, it is very much in line with the Franco-German initiative launched at the United Nations General Assembly, with the full support of the Netherlands, in my presence. That was followed up last Tuesday. At that time, I made a contribution on cyber security. With this interpretation, within the Franco-German initiative, I would like to leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. Then there is the Ploumen/Van Ojik motion on part No. 35 on the Human Rights Council. It calls on the government to continue its efforts to strengthen and improve, including a substantive underpinning of candidate countries' candidacy and inviting countries to run. This is in line with what I said in reply to Mrs Ploumen's question, so I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. The Voordewind motion in part No. 36 calls on the Government, following the judgment of the European Court of Justice, to work at European level to ensure that such labelling applies only to all occupied territories, or not. Mr Voordewind will agree with me that a judgment of the Court is binding and must be enforced. The previous cabinet has already sought support for the indeed logical demand for clarification for all occupied territories. The previous cabinet had to report that there was no such thing. I have no reason to believe that there is now. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u307	In reply to the judgment of the European Court, which refers to Regulation 1169, which refers to all countries and to the disputed or occupied territories, four or five times. If we do not follow that regulation, we will have a problem with the principle of non-discrimination in international law. So the request is to proceed with labelling, but in accordance with Regulation 1169. Then we must apply it to all the disputed areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u308	After a judge's verdict, there's no choice whether or not to execute it. As I pointed out, the previous government has tried to realize that wish of Mr Voordewind to extend it to all the occupied territories, which I consider logical, but has not succeeded. Now we're dealing with a judge's verdict. I can't change that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u309	But then we have the principle of non-discrimination. This means that we need to implement it when we no longer have any discrimination, or we need to do so for the other countries as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u310	It's a judge's verdict. You can add other considerations, but that doesn't change the verdict. Once there's a verdict, we can be unhappy with that. I am sometimes surprised by this, but we must also respect the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u311	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u312	The Voordewind/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 37 asks the Minister for Foreign Affairs to shape the department's recruitment policy in such a way that a good reflection of Dutch society is achieved. I agree with that, so I'd like to leave it to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u313	Mr Koopmans disagrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u314	Mr Koopmans is simply asking for clarification, because of course we do not want to talk about quotas or other types of rigid means. I assume the Minister is talking about people we select coming from all over society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u315	I don't think the word "quota" has fallen anywhere. I'm not a fan of quotas either. I understand the authors in such a way that, like me, they want the staff of the State Department to be diverse. Then there is the Van der Staaij motion on part No. 38. It also deals with the labelling directive and calls on the government to make efforts at EU level to repeal the directive in question. The objective of the directive itself is transparency for consumers. I cannot oppose this, because the consumer must then decide whether or not to allow his purchase decision to be influenced by this transparency. However, the total repeal of the directive achieves an objective which I do not consider to be in the interests of the consumer. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 39 by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Ploumen. I like that combination, so I look at it with great attention. This motion calls on the government to continue to denounce discrimination against Papua's internationally and to help improve their socio-economic situation, for example through support for projects that strengthen education in Western Papua. I'd like to make a cut between those two questions. I am happy to do the first thing. I agree. I have also raised the issue of discrimination against Papua's. The second part calls for a financial contribution to a country with which we no longer have a development cooperation relationship because of the pleasing observation that Indonesia's financial and economic position has now been strengthened. If the proposers are prepared to take out the second part, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u316	The second part can also be understood in this way. I know that, for example, education projects are in the pipeline that are very difficult to realise, and that there is a bit of support to find the way, so to speak. This can also be done in a different way, through diplomatic activities. So it is not a question of an extra budget, but also of providing support for the projects that see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u317	I find that very difficult to judge. Then I would like to return to it in writing. Then I really need to be able to talk and see what we know about educational projects in Papua.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u318	But we will have to do so by Tuesday, because then we will vote on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u319	I think we can still do that. I will return to this last part in writing. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the motions and questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u320	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-24.u321	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the staff, the officials, the Stenographic Service, the clerks, the messengers and everyone who has followed this debate in one way or another.
