ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. Before I give Mr Van Meenen the floor on behalf of D66, I would like to welcome everyone, particularly the people in the public gallery. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. The first question is from Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66 on stopping funding for the Haga Lyceum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, thank you. Also my word of welcome to you all. This school, the Haga Lyceum, should never have been there. For the sake of the children, he must close as soon as possible. Those are not new words in this Chamber. It must be closed as long as these drivers are in office. Almost a year ago, we were warned by the AIVD and the NCTV that students at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum were influenced by persons who would be associated with a terrorist organization. The two drivers, who previously made their money in construction, in a snack bar and in a bakery, responded with very harsh language. Later on, the school even refused access to the educational inspection, thus depriving us as a society of the total image of this school. After the board refused to install a new board, the minister rightly decided to stop funding as a whole. My question to the Minister is: how is it possible that, in a debate and a general discussion, the Minister has addressed very comprehensively the need for very careful legal action, and that then his own decision has been cut off directly from the courts, because it appears to be contrary to his own rules and legislation? Because he can only gradually reverse the funding. My questions to the Minister are as follows: was the Minister aware that his policy to stop funding is in breach of his own rules? Why did the Minister choose to stop funding immediately? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that these pupils receive good and safe education as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank Mr Van Meenen for the questions he has asked. Indeed, two statements were made last Friday in the context of a court hearing. One had to do with the fact that they wanted extra funding. The court has said that it is inadmissible, because within the time limits that are still in force, a choice can be made and we still have some time. With regard to the other situation, which concerns the designation, the court did indeed award the appeal, with the motivation as indicated by Mr Van Meenen. It referred to a policy rule. I would like to stress that we have been very careful. Of course, we have also looked at this policy. A policy rule is a general measure; it is not a generally binding rule. This means that we have, in the end, made our own assessment of the policy rule that applies here. That policy rule applies to smaller cases. There's never been a clue before. This is a lead in a case of enormous magnitude. For this reason, we have, of course in consultation with the national attorney, who has also been closely involved, made the choice as I have submitted it to you and as the judge has now judged it. We now have the judge's ruling, with the reasons that we see differently in that respect because of the choice we have made. We have to accept that. It means that the substantive assessment of the designation will start on 9 December at the Amsterdam Court. Then there will be a substantive assessment of the reasons we gave at the time of the designation. We have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	The minister is a history teacher. I'm a math teacher. Neither one of us is a lawyer. That's what our people are for. And certainly the Minister has his people for that, for example the state attorney. Then it remains incomprehensible to me that this could have happened. Does the Minister share D66's view that it is precisely this care that is so necessary, because any hiccup, any interference in this process, means that children of this school have to wait longer for safe and good education? So it is very bad that this statement has now occurred and at the same time it is inconceivable that we do not seem to have any instruments to intervene when things like this happen? If there are links with terrorist organisations, if citizenship education is not in order and if the inspection is refused access, how does the Minister intend to deal with this? Does he agree with D66 that legislation should be introduced as soon as possible, which gives the Minister the tools to intervene in such situations, wherever and at any school? Is it necessary to amend the law to that effect? If so, when can the Chamber expect that law? Can the Minister guarantee from now on that his decisions will stand in court?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think it is right to stress once again that this is a matter of granting a provisional provision. The substantive assessment of the designation will not start until 9 December at the Amsterdam Court. I would also like to stress that we have done this very carefully and that our consideration has been that the policy rule as it applied was really applied to smaller cases. The judge didn't judge that the same way. We will have to consider the consequences for the future. Is our laws and regulations tailored to these kinds of big things? We have talked about this in detail before. The cabinet has proposed to the Chamber that the legal instruments should indeed be extended further. We talked about that before the summer. That is in full implementation at the moment, because we do realise that we sometimes run into our borders with regard to legislation and regulation in relation to the size of the issues that are now coming to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	I cannot see to what extent that size plays a role in this. It seems obvious that this is a big deal. That seemed to me to be estimated by the state's attorney and others. This is what I'm talking about. As we speak, at the moment, children are in an unsafe situation and do not receive good education, especially in the area of citizenship. There are still many conflicts with the inspection. As a society, we do not get a good picture, because there is a constant fight through the lawyer against publication of inspection reports. Finally, my question to the Minister is: does he share this urgency? Does this also mean that the legislation in preparation will come to the Chamber very soon and that it will also have all the legal stamps that are possible, so that we do not get wet again in court?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	We have talked about the latter, and that is indeed in progress. We go very far in the additions we have proposed to the current legislation and regulations. When it comes to the urgency and seriousness of this matter, let it be clear that never before in history has a clue been given. That, I think, is sufficient answer to the question whether I think this is urgent. Yeah, we think so; that's why we gave the clue. This also means, of course, that such an indication is now being tested legally for the first time. We are very careful, also in our support, because the judge of course makes an independent balancing act that is our rule of law in giving a judgment. On Friday, it was only a matter of making a preliminary ruling, pending the judgment. I am very pleased that this matter will now also be dealt with as a matter of priority and that the substantive assessment is already being started on 9 December. It would be nice if we had a ruling on this calendar year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	What powerlessness I have seen here! A play between two gentlemen, both from the coalition. One in the Chamber, the other in the Cabinet; one hating all religions and the other almost Muslim, when I hear it like that. But the people at home, and perhaps also the people in the public gallery, I think have understood very little or nothing. I do not qualify the people in the public gallery or at home, but it is very difficult to understand what is happening here. There will be new legislation, but what will be included in this new legislation is everything, except that we are going to tackle Islamic education in the Netherlands as a whole. Because wherever Islam puts its nose around the corner, I have often said so, the legislation of the receiving society is being challenged, tarnished and tortured. I would like to say to the Minister that, on 9 December, when things are going to be consulted or something like that, it will be said: all the Islamic schools in the Netherlands will be closed!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	For information, also for the representative of the PVV: 9 December is the substantive assessment during a court hearing of the designation we have given, an indication that has never been given to a school before. We had every reason to do so, given what is going on there and also looking at a robust inspection report which is part of it. The question of legislation is a somewhat broader question that we have discussed before, not only in the context of this situation, but also, for example, because of the Maastricht VMB. If these extreme situations occur from time to time, they are not of the same weight, but they are both extremely extreme, we notice that we are running into the edges of our laws and regulations, because they have not really been taken into account. That is also why we are going to extend this legislation and regulation further, and we are of course doing so in a careful way, but with speedy speed, because we also believe that this should be regulated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	Your second question, Mr. De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	Indeed, a second question from the PVV. The first time a clue is given, and that will be December 9th. That was almost unclear in that whole knitting, so thank you for that clarity. For the first time in history: because of the Islamization of the Netherlands, for the first time a clue has been given towards such a school. Then pick it up! Then, like the PVV, if we are going to have our anti-Islamic law in the Chamber soon, let's call it that, treat it, our initiative law, in which we say: we are going to ban certain expressions of Islam. Then cooperate with us! Give us full support from the cabinet! Maybe you can presort on that already, so I'll give the minister. With that you make sure with us that we don't have to anticipate things that might come towards us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	After all, we already know what misery there is in the Netherlands and how Islam has settled in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	The debate on the PVV's initiative law is of a very different order and even has to do with our Constitution and the fact that constitutional rights are universal. That's another discussion. As far as the discussion of Cornelius Haga is concerned, we have discussed it extensively with the Chamber at various times. The PVV was also present. The moment of the designation was also discussed in this Chamber and I received support from this Chamber to continue on that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	That school needs to close, and it's a win, I think, that D66 is also ready to go and say: that school needs to close. It is grinding teeth that it takes so long, because that provisional provision has been made. 9 December starts the substantive task, but I do need more clarity on the deadlines needed to reach a decision. What time do we have for the children of that school to be placed in a safe and good school? I want to know when the time limit for the instruments is. I think it's sometime before summer, but it's too late for this school. So we need to know what timelines are attached to this, otherwise those children will be lost for another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	Two things. First of all, the goal is not to close the school. The goal is that the drivers of this school disappear, because there are reasonable indications that it is not going well. Let me summarize briefly, because there is more to be said about it. The drivers should make room. Because they don't, we finally gave the clue with the ultimate means of financing that we could use for that. That's the discussion. The judge is the one who will ultimately give a judgment on this. That's how it works in our rule of law. The court shall also determine the time limit within which the judgment is to be delivered. I hope that will not take too long and that we will have clarity quickly, because that is also in the interest of all those children who go back to this school every day. We want them to receive education in a safe school environment. As far as we are concerned, that is out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	The constitutionally anchored freedom of education is an exceptionally great asset. I see he's in good hands with the minister. That freedom is close to his heart. The more annoying it is than when you see, and on the basis of the reports and reports, that the freedom of education is used to do behind it things that do not endure with good citizenship and with the aim of freedom of education. Now, December 9th remains an exciting moment, and it remains exciting until the judge's verdict. My only question to the Minister is: does he have a plan B?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	We have made a well-founded ruling which will now have to be tested by the judge. That's what I'm standing for. The judge has just agreed to an interim order. That is still reasonable in time because the substantive assessment of the designation is fortunately very soon on the table. I look forward with confidence to what will happen there and wait for the judge's ruling before I go into other scenarios, because I think that what we are doing here is really very good to explain and also in the interests of the children who go to that school every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u20	More than six months ago it was announced with a lot of bombs that this would be a salafistic stronghold where children are in acute danger. There would even be links to terrorist organisations. What else has the Minister done in that regard? Has that been followed up? Has that been investigated further? Was there a report? 'Cause if this is true, I'm really worried about how these kids are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u21	I've already informed the Chamber about that in detail. I've taken responsibility for that, too. Indeed, the indications we had, which also came from our intelligence services, have also given rise to the education inspection in order to deepen the research that it was already doing. This ultimately produced a report that was devastating, particularly about the school's administrators. That report was decisive for me to proceed to the most far-reaching measure you can take, to give the clue. Because there was an objection to this designation and to the fact that it would take effect on 1 December, there will be all kinds of court hearings of which we have had one. The substantive assessment will not take place until December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u22	A second question, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u23	There are quite a few legal scholars who indicate that the Minister is not only looking for borders here, but also crossing the borders with regard to tackling this school. If the Minister realizes that sentiments like that are alive, and he has done so in the debate, then it is very wise not to give any further reason to think so. As the Minister himself pointed out, it is wise that he should be given extensive information and not, at the time of the first best review, get a chatter because he does not comply with his own rules, while he blames Cornelius Haga Lyceum. How does he rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u24	First of all. I have presented the steps I have taken to the Chamber in detail, including the most far-reaching step of an indication. We have had a general discussion on this and the Chamber has expressed support for it. It has no longer led to Parliamentary rulings, so I have concluded that there is unanimous support in the Chamber for taking this unusual step. Then what happened last Friday. Let me say quite frankly that the allocation of facilities is quite common. Because the court hearing, the substantive assessment, was so close at the moment when the money tap would be completely shut down, it might be reasonable for the judge to have made such a ruling. I have indicated that we find the justification amazing, because, as far as we are concerned, the policy rule is intended for smaller things. For example, if a school gets a clue to fix something and it takes too long, you can turn off the money tap something; that can even do the inspection. That's what you do step by step. It is applied to such matters, but this is so great. We have been given extensive legal information by the national attorney, including about taking this step. Once again, this will be assessed in substance in the court hearing, and that will be done in the coming month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u25	This school should have been dealt with by now. The series of abuses is unprecedented. This strengthens us in the belief that the Minister must have much more resources to close down schools and to be able to fire drivers. Unfortunately, these resources are not yet available. I only want one guarantee from the Minister. By when can he close up schools like this and put these kind of drivers out on the street? That's what society wants to know. It must be over, especially with this administration, which is truly unsatisfying and does not take anything or anyone seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u26	Friday's ruling is purely a provision for a moment when you allow a measure to take effect pending a substantive assessment. This substantive assessment is indeed very important, including with regard to the instruments that we now have and the assessment of whether we can apply it in this way. Apart from that, we are already fully in the process of implementing the agreements made with the Chamber just before the summer on extending the instruments, in particular the inspection. It is expected that we will be able to complete this further in the first half of 2020. We must also do this carefully, but we are making every effort to do so, which is justified in the context of this major issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u27	It is good that we will soon hear more, at least in the first half of next year, about what we can do in the future to intervene earlier. Now, of course, we are dealing with the current situation and with rules, which the Minister has indeed indicated a number of times in the Chamber that they are quite complicated. What's gonna happen if we don't get right on 9 December, when the next step is in court? I agree with Mr Bishop that this has rather serious consequences and that a step B should be considered. What's gonna happen when it turns out in court that the minister isn't right about the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u28	I have just indicated that we are looking forward to this court hearing with great confidence, but that it is indeed very exciting because for the first time a designation is going to be reviewed on a judicial basis. It has never been proclaimed in this way and put into procedure by any of my predecessors, no matter how far back we go in time. I await the judge's judgment. It goes without saying that whatever the verdict is, I will then inform the Chamber as soon as possible. Even if this assessment is as we would like to see it, there is still a great deal to be done, also in the direction of the school and the children. Even then, we will have to think about funding. Does or does the school not cooperate in carrying out this ruling? In short, a lot of questions will have to be answered, but let the judge do his job now. That's how it's supposed to be in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u29	And inform the Chamber as soon as possible? Is that this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u30	Sure. If the judge makes a ruling this year, there will be a response from our side this year too. But I just indicated that the judge himself is about his terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you.
