ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then I go to Mrs Teunissen, on behalf of the Animal Party, to ask the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management about the report that the Council of State believes that the government should force the industry to re-use glass. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last Wednesday, the Council of State again decided that the government should force companies to do much more glass recycling. The Secretary of State has less than eight weeks to take action against the Waste Fund. For years, producers have been able to buy delays and avoid their recycling obligations. It is becoming a sad habit for the judge to force the government to take environmental measures. We saw it in climate, in air quality, and we now see it in the reuse of valuable raw materials. Law provides for 90% of the glass to be reused, but this standard has not been met year after year. For years, producers have been fighting against single-use glass. This whole dossier shows that voluntaryness leads to non-committality, but non-committality leads to laxity. Instead of intervention by the Secretary of State, it allows producers to get away with warnings while long overdue periodic penalty payments should have been imposed. This is the second time that the Council of State has intervened in failing to meet the recycling standard of glass. All this time, the solution has been ready and that is, of course, the introduction of deposit money on disposable glass, such as small beer bottles or other glass packaging; a proven effective measure. The time for postponement and the soft words of butter is over. It's time for enforcement. It's time for action. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if she will follow up on the ruling of the Council of State. Will it maintain the legal standard of 90% glass recycling? Does she recognise that this standard can be achieved by broadening the deposit money? Does it recognise that producers have had long enough time to come up with alternatives? When is the Secretary of State going to impose deposit money on disposable glass? 'Cause whoever doesn't put in deposit money throws in his own glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Is the Secretary of State going to implement the ruling of the Council of State, or is the government going to? The answer to that is yes. Of course, we're gonna keep it. A decision will be taken by the ILT within eight weeks. This is not a decision or we are going to keep it, but in what way. I think it is important to give some context to some of the things Mrs Teunissen says. For example, in 2014, the amount of glass recycled was already 79%. In 2015, that percentage increased to 83%, in 2016, to 84%, and in 2017 to 86%. The standard to be met is 90%. I think it is good to keep these figures in mind, because it is the last percentage and the low-hanging fruit is of course long gone. That does not alter the fact that the latter percentage must also be achieved. The burden of the penalty payment will play a role in that. Mrs Teunissen specifically asks for deposit money, but with deposit money you don't have recycling yet. Then you can collect bottles and partly they can be reused, but about the recycling of the material you have to make an appointment with each other in a different way. So the question is whether deposit money is the only thing that could be effective. No, because it sees not only recycling, but also, for example, combating litter. The other thing is that we're pretty close to the goal and then the question is whether you need to set up such a whole market completely differently to get that last percentage. I'm not convinced of that. As a result of this ruling, I am not going to change the standard, but I am going to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	I note that the Secretary of State says: the ILT is now going to see how we are going to maintain. None of that sounds like the urgency has really gotten through. We've got eight weeks! With plastic bottles it has lasted eighteen years and we still do not meet the standards, because the deposit money remains out. In addition, the Secretary of State gives a number of figures with which she actually wants to indicate: we are almost there. We are almost there all the time, but there are doubts about these figures, because some of them do not seem to have been taken, namely the glass bottles that end up in the rest of the waste at home. There are therefore questions about the quality of these figures and it is also simply a fact that we always do not comply with that 90% standard. Then I'm very curious. The Secretary of State is talking about the need to look at what measures are in place, but does she agree that periodic penalty payments are being imposed at least now? And does it also recognise that the imposition of periodic penalty payments alone is not enough and that we must also take structural measures to recycle more glass and that deposit money is an effective means of achieving this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	I would almost think that I confused Mrs Teunissen with my clear answer by saying: yes, we are also going to maintain it and within eight weeks there will be clarity as to what measures will be subject to a penalty payment in order to achieve that 90%. We're almost there. We're definitely gonna do that. I think deposit money in this case... I think you could get that last percentage sooner and faster with post-mortem or with a glass tray than with the rigging of a whole deposit system. But I am not concerned about the individual means; I am concerned about achieving the goal. I have shown Mrs Teunissen that we are getting closer to that goal every year. But we're not there yet, so the Council of State has decided that we need to maintain that in a different way from what we have done so far. So that is what we are going to do, because that is what we need to achieve; that recycling must be achieved. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	That is very disappointing, because deposit money is a proven effective tool. The fact that the Secretary of State is still running around and saying that we are going to regulate it in a different way is a lot like postponing it, giving the producers room and freedom, while it has long been proven that this does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr President, I really cannot cook soup from this, because we are already at 86%. Thus, it appears that all kinds of measures have led to 86%. The claim that all kinds of measures would not work contradicts those figures. In addition, deposit money is only seen on the withdrawal of the bottle and not at all on the recycling of the material. That 90% does not concern the intake of bottles, but the recycling of the material. That is not what deposit money sends on; it does not send on the intake of bottles, but not on the recycling of the material. So I do not think Mrs Teunissen can argue that this is the only effective means of getting that material recycled. But I have said very clearly: that objective is set, we are going to maintain it and we are going to ensure that that standard is met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The ruling identified a number of factors that it might have to deal with, such as the role of third parties in the process, but also additional measures to the plan that is already in place, but indeed also the penalty payment that has just been mentioned. The Secretary of State states that she is thinking about it, that she is going to look into it and that the ILT is going to make a decision about it. Recycling Network also asks the State Secretary to take a decision on the penalty payment and its level. The question of D66 is really: how are we going to put a penalty payment or any other additional measures in place to get the Waste Packing Fund kicked in the ass that's hard enough so that they're really gonna run fast and get that 90% recycling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	First of all, it is important to establish that the Inspection monitors both the Environment and Transport, so looking at the figures, and possibly maintaining them. So that's not the Secretary of State, it's the inspection. The inspection does so independently, but measures must be taken. A penalty payment can help you take a measure that you wouldn't otherwise take. An example is to place an extra glass container or add extra after separation or perhaps take all kinds of other measures. Of course, it costs money. If, on the other hand, the financial incentive of a periodic penalty payment is against this, it may well change the balance, which may mean that some more glass boxes are placed and a little less glass goes into the residual container for convenience, but all the glass goes to that glass container. For example, this could quickly contribute to the further increase of such a percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	The Secretary of State just said that we are close to reaching the 90% standard, but we also have signs that the disposable glass is only increasing. Could she perhaps give us figures on the possible increase in disposable glass?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	Here too, I think Mrs Teunissen is confusing things. We have glass that is used once and that you could qualify as disposable glass, and there is glass that is refilled. Beer bottles, for example, are refilled. Disposable glass is therefore a single-use glass. You have to collect it and recycle it. Then it's part of the 90% standard, which you're also trying to control. Every year we have figures of how we are getting closer and closer to recycling that disposable glass. The recycling of the disposable glass material should be up to 90%. We're at 87% now. I can send you the figures for the past few years, which is an ascending series. We expect the last measurement of this in August. Then we know how much results the additional measures we are going to take with a penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Let me ask you a question about the penalty payment. We have seen, for example, at Tata Steel that a penalty payment has been imposed 28 times and that the pollution continues. How is the Secretary of State going to guarantee that penalty payment will actually have effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	That is indeed always an important point. A stimulus must also be effective. Again, the penalty payment is not set by me but by the Inspection Environment and Transport. That's who's doing it. It will look at both effectiveness and proportionality. Those two elements will have to be taken into account in determining the amount of the penalty payment in order to ensure that we comply with what the judge has told us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you.
