ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Wet experiment closed coffeeshop chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u2	The Minister for Medical Care and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate the six speakers who made their maiden speech this afternoon. It's good to see that. Here's what I want to do. I make a few introductory remarks and then I move on to a few cubes in which the questions were clustered. I also refer to the division of tasks between Mr Grapperhaus and the undersigned, and I would like to deal with a few separate questions. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the bill Wet experiment closed coffeeshop chain. This legislative proposal follows on from the government agreement's intention to introduce laws and regulations for the purpose of a uniform experiment to see whether and, if so, how quality-controlled weed can be decriminalised to coffeeshops, called "the closed coffeeshop chain" and what its effects are. By naming this, I immediately answered Mr Van Wely's first question: what is the purpose of the experiment? Mr. Chairman. In particular, the local government has indicated that the establishment of the current coffee shop chain with tolerated sales and unsatisfied procurement poses problems for public order, security, public health and the fight against undermining crime. Through an experiment with a decriminalised coffeeshop chain, the cabinet wants to investigate the effects of a closed coffeeshop chain on public health, crime, security and nuisance. So we're investigating the effects. When did the experiment pass? If we were able to measure these effects in a good way. The conclusions are really not drawn until later. The point is, I'm telling Mr. Janssen, we're mapping those effects in a pure way. Mr. Chairman. For me, as Minister of Medical Care, the experiment is an opportunity to take specific measures. Firstly, on prevention, and specifically on the use of young people. Secondly, on information and warnings, for example on packaging. Thirdly, a ban on advertising. The aim of these interventions is to prevent an increase in soft drug use and thus to prevent an additive effect of the experiment. Of course, we're going to monitor those interventions during the experiment. In order for the experiment to be as effective as possible, we have asked twice for independent advice from an advisory committee led by Mr Knottnerus. First was advised about the design of the experiment. The first opinion of this Knottnerus Committee has served as a basis for the legislation and regulations that have been drawn up. Today we are talking about the bill. The draft of the AMvB has now been submitted to your Chamber and will be submitted to the Advisory Section of the Council of State as soon as possible after this plenary discussion. A draft ministerial regulation laying down detailed rules on the selection of growers, on the packaging and quality of hemp and hashish, on the administration to be carried out and on the unique identification marking is currently being consulted on the Internet. That Internet consultation closes on November 12th. It would be nice if we could complete all this legislation, legislation, AMvB and ministerial regulation all this year. Of course we do not have that entirely in our own hands, because the AMvB, as has been said, still has to go to the Council of State, but the commitment is aimed at that. I will come back later to talk specifically about planning and process. That was about Knottnerus' first advice. Second, the Knottnerus Committee advised on the selection of the participating municipalities. 23 municipalities have applied for participation in the experiment. The committee has nominated ten municipalities to participate in the experiment. The cabinet has taken over these nominations. I would like to take advantage of this moment to compliment all these municipalities on the fact that they dare to lead the way, that they stick their necks out to participate in the experiment. Of course, we are also grateful to Mr Knottnerus and the members of his committee for both opinions. Mr. Chairman. As far as the implementation of the experiment is concerned, we regulate in the law and the AMvB that there are three successive phases. Just as much on the main lines. The first phase is the preparatory phase. It allows potential growers to apply to be designated as producers. A maximum of 10 producers shall be designated. The designated producers will make the necessary preparations to produce hemp and hashish in a permanent manner, which can satisfy the demand of coffeeshops. Municipalities may draw up or adapt local regulations during the preparatory phase. The start of this preparatory phase will start as soon as we have finished the regulatory process, i.e. the regulation as a whole. It would be fantastic if all this could be achieved on January 1st of next year. The second phase is the experimental phase, which lasts four years. At this stage, the laws and regulations apply in the ten participating municipalities and the hemp and hashish produced by the designated producers are sold. During this phase, the effects will be monitored. Please note that the evaluation will take place in the third year and political decision-making will take place in the fourth year. Just thinking from the preparatory phase: let's say that it would last a year, then there is a six-week transition period between preparation and experiment, as we discussed in the House of Representatives. This makes it possible to gradually switch to the new offer. Then coffeeshops and consumers can get used to the experimental phase. At its fastest it goes like this. There's a year for preparation, and then six weeks. Then you arrive at about mid-February 2021. Then there will be a four-year period during which that experiment takes place. In its third year the evaluation takes place and in the fourth year political decision-making takes place. This also means that, on the basis of Cabinets serving their full time, the political decision-making process can take place in a subsequent cabinet period. That was preparation and experiment. The final phase is the phasing-out phase. Depending on political decision-making, the experiment will be completed in six months. But the experiment can also be extended; you have read that. The experimental phase may take a little longer to allow for subsequent regulation. However, in the three phases of the experiment.................................................................................................................................................. It lasts six months. Mr. Chairman. I'm about to get to the questions. I shall deal with three issues. One. Prevention and public health. Two. Planning and process of the experiment. Three. The international context. After that I have a few questions about it. I don't mean disrespectful. Afterwards, Mr Grapperhaus will address the public order, security and crime blocks, participating municipalities, impact measurement and evaluation, and Mr Knottnerus's opinion. The honourable Member is not shaking a no, but perhaps the layout of these cubes is something else. But then you know about the division of labour. I hear it's something else. Mr. Chairman. First, the block of prevention. As Minister for Medical Care, the effects on public health naturally have my special attention. I want to see what this experiment does with the use of soft drugs. For let me make it clear: an increase in this experiment is not intended. That is why we are putting in place a targeted prevention policy, which clearly highlights the risks of using soft drugs. After all, weed and hashish are unhealthy. The use of drugs, even in the case of weed and hashish, always entails risks to public health. In this experiment, we want to limit the risks. That is what we are doing with a targeted prevention policy and with measures aimed at controlling the quality of hemp and hashish produced. So we do two things. On the one hand, we have a targeted prevention policy and, on the other, we are taking measures aimed at controlling the quality of the product. A number of questions were asked in the first term on the part of the Chamber. How does the experiment-closed coffeeshop chain fit into countering standardisation? That question was raised in Mr Rombouts' speech and was also raised in Mrs Bikker's speech. Mr Dittrich mentioned it, and also Mr Van Dijk. So it's actually a common question. Here's what I'm gonna say. In the experiment there is extensive attention to public health in the field of cannabis and to the prevention of suction. It is not intended that the experiment stimulates people to use cannabis, if they did not otherwise intend to do so. Therefore, the draft decision of this experiment lays down requirements for the selling staff and for the presence of educational material in coffee shops, so that potential shop customers in the participating municipalities are informed about the risks of use. An additional prevention approach is also being developed, which also addresses vulnerable groups. This also concerns vulnerable groups in institutions; we will take this issue explicitly. At present, the Trimbos Institute is mapping out what a balanced set of additional prevention measures could look like. That's really long, long, long before we start the experimental phase, all set and ready. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go further on these prevention measures, as several speakers have asked for them. What prevention measures are being taken? I would like to say that it is a bay of prevention measures. For example, the packaging is subject to requirements. There are requirements regarding the attractiveness of the packaging. There's gonna be warning messages coming on. There will be an information leaflet called "the package leaflet" which is similar to what is called "the package leaflet." But just so we're clear, drugs are not drugs, so we can only use the word "packager" in this context in a transferable sense. That information leaflet is part of each package, which warns against the dangers of addiction or the risks in the event of planned pregnancy or traffic participation. The sales staff of the coffee shop should be obliged to take a course aimed at providing information on the use of cannabis, recognising problematic use and acting on it by referring, for example, to information or care. The coffee shop should contain mandatory educational material indicating the risks of cannabis use and refers to institutions that help with problematic use or addiction. As I said, we will pay particular attention to young people in institutions. I say this in response to Mr Dittrich's question, but Mrs Bikker also replied to it. Mrs Bikker asked: if the use of cannabis increases during the experiment, is there room for intervention? The answer is in the affirmative: if in a municipality the implementation of the experiment is no longer justified from the point of view of public health, the legislative proposal provides for an emergency braking device to stop the experiment in that municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you to the Minister for that confirmation. I think that is very important. Precisely because health gains will have to be one of the building blocks of this experiment, it matters that we are actually going to see that profit. When the minister talks about that emergency brake, he specifically calls it "a municipality." In that place the emergency brake can then enter into force. However, my question is broader. If, over the years, the Minister would see that cannabis use is increasing or that there are more start-ups or more young users, what are the possibilities for nationalism? What are the options for this minister or his successor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u5	The most important means is, of course, that each legislator can reconsider the consequences of the experiment and take measures during the journey. It is not expected, given all the preparatory measures. But one can then see if the law needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u6	Thank you. At least I can see that it is not cast into concrete: it is an experiment that the government wants to do with conviction, but the consequences will be looked at. But then, of course, my question is: how do you monitor it during the experiment? We should not say after four years: oops, there really was a trend up. We need to make sure there's a finger on the wrist in between. In between, there must also be clarity as to which building blocks emerge from this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u7	One of the core elements of the experiment is, of course, that the effects are monitored. That will happen all the time, from the start of the experiment. That starts with a zero reading. Next, measurements will also be made in the course of the experiment. That's one part of the monitoring. But, of course, in the participating municipalities, the mayors will look with their eyes at stalks. Let me put it this way: let me look at the progress of the experiment. That's part of it. In addition, there is a guidance committee. It will, of course, also look at the consequences of the experiment. And I think there will be a lot more eyes on the experiment, not only nationally, but also internationally. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u8	Mrs. Bikker, for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you for that clarity. The experiment is ongoing, but for a large part of the coffeeshops the experiment is not valid. They're in other municipalities. Shifts may occur. We can't quite explain how that's gonna go at the moment. Can the Minister give us a little more insight into the policy area that he keeps at that point in order to take action? I would like to ask this particularly with regard to the high level of prevention. Because we have to keep writing over soft drugs: don't get started. Prevention must remain strong, including in the municipalities that do not participate in this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u10	I have just told you that we take preventive measures seriously. Sometimes these will apply specifically to coffee shops in the participating municipalities, but sometimes this focus on prevention will be wider. For example, I am looking, together with colleagues Blokhuis and Grapperhaus, at prevention measures in a broader sense. They are part of the undermining approach. Mr Grapperhaus will deal with this later. These will be measures which apply to the whole of the Netherlands, and which are therefore wider than the experiment. Then there is Mr Rombouts' question as to why a maximum THC level has not been chosen. I have two answers to that. What we are aiming at is a realistic test of practice, where sales are sold in other municipalities in a tolerated situation. If we put the ten municipalities with the current 79 coffeeshops at a maximum limit in terms of THC value, you would create an inequality with the rest of the Netherlands, so you might get a shift by the people who make the purchases. That is not desirable, because we want a realistic test of practice. Therefore, the cannabis sold in the participating coffeeshops should reflect realistically what is being offered today. Then there's the second answer. The mentioned Knottnerus has said that there is currently no scientific evidence that a higher THC value leads to more addiction. He recommends, and we take over, that we monitor this and follow the THC value, because it fluctuates over time. This afternoon in the debate it seemed as if there was an ever-increasing THC level, but when you go over the documentation, you see over a series of years, from the beginning of the century and ten years later, first a kind of decrease and then again a kind of increase in the THC content. So it's not a constant. I have another question from Mr Rombouts and Mrs Bikker asked the same question. Am I willing to make a broad commitment to prevention? Again, yes, that is an important part of the whole experiment, precisely because it comes from the mouth of the Minister of Health. In this respect, we will seek to take account of the measures taken by Mr Blokhuis in the area of prevention policy. The essence is that drug use is not normal. That is what we want to join. With the answer to the questions on prevention, I would like to show that there is a very long list of prevention ingredients, ranging from packaging requirements to requirements at coffee shops, demanding the quality of hash and hemp, monitoring by the mayors, the attention of the Trimbos Institute and so on. I think prevention is incredibly important for this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u11	Thank you for the Minister's good commitment to prevention, but I would like to touch on the THC level. There is no conclusive scientific evidence of the health risks involved. At the same time, this level has not been maintained for years for nothing. It is said what effect the pot has and how strong it is. The government now also wants these coffeeshops to report the THC content. Of course, it can also have an inverse effect, that people deliberately opt for the heavy effects, while we are not sure whether they involve health risks. How does the Minister weigh that risk, including ethically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u12	As I said, the scientific data on the effects and risks of THC are not unambiguous. I wrote it down like this, but I borrowed it from Knottnerus' report. It is not yet clear what the influence and effects of a high or low THC content are. That's one reason. The other is that we want to have a realistic test of practice. I could have said: if scientific research shows that there are reasons to maximize the THC content in the coming years, then you can adjust the AMvB, but given the state of the research, that is too easy a commitment, too easy an answer to the question. I do not expect the research on the THC value to vibrate in the coming years, but it is a possibility that we have in hand through the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u13	Rather an easy promise than a promise. I hope the Minister still wants to do it. I think it is important, especially since more and more prominent psychiatrists are saying: there is a strong link between the occurrence of psychiatric complaints and the level of THC. Mr Van Os, professor of psychiatry at UMC Utrecht, makes it clear: if you are sensitive to mental problems, don't use it; if you do, please use very weak weed. That is why I would be so sorry if, by using this experiment, the government also assumed a certain responsibility for approving and naming what the THC content is to look away at the moment when measures can be taken. So I would like that easy commitment, and I would like it to be a little more, because I think this is just as important to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u14	I totally agree with that, although the causal relationship between THC and psychosis is much more telling. The scientists do not agree on this either. You don't have to. I didn't make an easy commitment. I intend to say this: through the AMvB we can maximize that THC content, but you can't do that until the scientific research has reached such a level that there is also clear evidence of it. I do not see that happening so quickly, but the possibility exists because the theme of the THC value is regulated in the AMvB. So we can change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u15	I too was not happy with the argument about being able to test realistic and the THC content. Mrs Bikker has drawn sufficient attention to this. I urge the Minister not to give the same answer again. I quite rightly had to delete some in the first period. This also concerned a question to the Minister on prevention. We read wonderful letters from the Secretary of State this week, but I think every time: fine when we do, but we notice so little about it in society. I've never seen a billboard that evokes discouragement, or really firm and determined campaigns that have an impact. Screening that employees of the coffee shops are well instructed is putting the horse behind the cart. I would like the government to give more care to our young people. I do not know if the Minister has read the annex to the NRC this weekend. Steven was a handsome, nice and smart guy, with a lot of talent, cum laude graduate, but he went to the coffee shop every day during high school. He didn't get that old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u16	I understand these concerns. They live with many of you, including me. I understand the concerns about standardisation very well. It has our specific attention. What seemed important to me is not to leave the reaction alone: focus on prevention. There is also broad support for the appointment of standardisation and the prevention of undermining, especially through the attention of colleagues Blokhuis and Grapperhaus. This has just been the subject of a debate in the Chamber. I would stress that VWS and JenV must work together in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u17	Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to THC levels. The Minister rightly states that science is not yet ready to reach a unanimous judgment on the influence of THC on addiction behaviour. When we look at the Jellinek clinic and the most harmful drugs, we see that sleeping drugs, alcohol, tobacco, of course cocaine, crack, heroin, are all above cannabis in place 10. So I would indeed ask you not, in anticipation of a clear scientific opinion, to say already on the basis of political arguments about cannabis that we are going to introduce a maximum level of THC.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u18	Of course, I very much agree with that, because I have just tried to argue that. Perhaps in abundance: I therefore believe that there should be scientific evidence below that, that the THC value, in relation to the addiction possibilities, should be scientifically vibrated, and that this is not the case at present. In response to a question from Mrs Bikker, I also argued that I do not expect that very soon and therefore I do not want to make an easy commitment on that. I have pointed out that the subject of the THC is regulated in the AMvB, so that is the place where a legal upper limit should be set. I have just argued that I do not see it coming, because the scientific research does not yet provide a clear answer. Mr. Chairman. So much for my first topic on prevention. Then the second, about process and planning. I said something about this in my introduction, but a number of more specific questions have also been asked. Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks asked about the actual date of entry. This question was also raised last week in the health budget on the other hand. A concrete date is difficult to mention, because of course there still has to be some water through the sea. If it were possible to complete the regulation this year, and if it was possible to get the opinion of the Council of State on time, then the commitment would be to finalise the regulation this year. Then we really need the next year for the selection procedure for growers and for the assessment of their farm plans. In any case, we will be working on this in the first half of next year. After that, growers must also grow. After all, at the start of the experiment at the beginning of 2021, as I said, I can now assess that at the earliest it will be by mid-February 2021, of course, there will be enough cannabis and of sufficient quality. By the way, that's a learning experience we're taking with us from Canada. Within a few hours it was completely sold out there. I don't think that should be. That's not part of a well-prepared experiment. The expected concrete starting date therefore depends on how quickly we go through the rules and how quickly producers can be selected. I expect to need a period of about five months. Then there's those growers. Those growers have to grow. The start of the experiment is expected at the earliest on 14 February 2021, I would say. That's easy to remember. I hear Secretary Grapperhaus next to me saying it's Valentine's Day. Boy, does he know a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u19	Thank you for this indication. The Minister's just making my question a little more complicated than I intended. That preparation time of a year is just settled, so I get that. My question, which I will make more specific, is: if we do not make it to 1 January and if the Council of State takes a little longer, can it be 2 January or 3 January, or are we equal to 1 April? That was actually my question, because the normal dates of entry into force are always at the beginning. I see no need for that in this legislative proposal, so as far as we are concerned, it could also be 3 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u20	Yeah, or July 10th, because that's my birthday. We do not need the cadence we like for legislation, 1 January or 1 July. You're right about that. I see more flexibility in that, so there are many more dates. Actually, all the data is possible. A bit of a logical date at the beginning of the month is useful, but is more convenient than it should be. Mr Grapperhaus still doesn't look angry. We do not invest on one or two dates a year. The one about this point. Then Mr Recourt asked whether it was possible to follow up the experiment. Yeah, you can, but you can't. That depends on the effects. The effects, as I have argued in my introduction, can be discussed in a subsequent cabinet. Then there are two possibilities: whether the experiment goes on and is converted into general regulation, I say a bit domestic, or the experiment goes off and the phasing-out of the experiment goes on. It's been six months. The question. The question asked by Mr Janssen is whether the Ministers agree that the experiment is a means and not an end. Yes, we agree, as can be seen from my introduction. Then there is a question from Mr Janssen as to whether or not there is room for regulatory changes following the debate. The legislative proposal contains the framework conditions of the experiment. That cannot be changed by us here today. The development of the experiment takes place in the AMvB and the ministerial arrangement. I pointed that out. Those aren't fixed yet. The contribution from your Chamber will be involved in the further completion of the lower regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u21	I would like to return to the Minister's introduction, in which he said that there were 23 applications and that the Knottnerus Committee has selected 10. I assume that in the assignment was under the perimeter condition that it could be a maximum of ten, or was it a free assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u22	No, definitely not. You also read this in Mr Knottnerus's second opinion. In that he not only indicated that there are ten, but also which are ten. We had discussed that number of ten before in the House of Representatives. You know that number too, because that was also in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u23	Sure. But that means that it was clear in advance that it would be ten. There is no longer any adjustment to that, because that was in the coalition agreement. Then we will come back to the line of my speech, namely what was in the coalition agreement, and not what was in the scientific advice. So the coalition agreement has been leading in that. You can pick 10 out of 23 and see what fits best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u24	We said, between six and ten. We have received an opinion from Mr Knottnerus. On this point we say: the ten nominees Mr Knottnerus has used that word, and we think that municipalities are a good choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u25	Finally: that means that at least there is no room for adjustment anymore? We'll just peel it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u26	No, because otherwise we will certainly not be finished with the regulation. That is why this method has been chosen. The names of the municipalities are mentioned in the AMvB. We find that a nice spread, over north, east, south and west, both large and smaller municipalities. We welcome this choice and therefore propose that we do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u27	There are not only intervention municipalities, but also control municipalities. Several colleagues have spoken about the G4 municipality of Utrecht. Is there room for ministers to take advantage of the expertise of the municipality of Utrecht, as a large city with big city problems? Without driving the methodology of the Knottnerus Committee, wouldn't you like to benefit from Utrecht as a control municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u28	According to the division of tasks, Mr Grapperhaus will be returning to this point shortly, because that is part of the evaluation and research. Then a question from Mr Dittrich, but also from Mr Meijer, was whether the Ministers agreed that the experiment could be continued successfully. The answer to that is, of course, yes, it can, but it can't. That's totally open. What we do is measure the effects. The experiment can have many effects. The cabinet is committed to jointly assessing how to proceed on the basis of all these effects. In advance, for example, it is too difficult to determine when the experiment has been successful. That really has to happen in due course. Are the Ministers prepared to draw up procedural scenarios regarding the follow-up or phase-out of the experiment? That was also a question from Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks. My answer would be that, at this stage, it would certainly be too premature to work out scenarios on phasing out. We've made the layout of the experiment. As part of the regulation, phasing-out is also foreseen, just as the possibility of extending the experiment by up to one and a half years has been created. Now we are at the stage of preparation. That first. Gradually the experiment can then be considered as to whether it is desirable to develop further scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u29	Short, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, I have not been very clear in my questions, because my question was not about the phasing-out, but rather about the possible continuation, and I estimated that the one-and-a-half year extension might be very short for a full legislative process, especially if it included an international integration component. Suppose you say from the results of the experiment: we want to translate that into general legislation. If you find out at that point that your legal frameworks are so tight that you are not going to make it within the time it takes, the infrastructure will still be broken down. That seems like an eternal sin to me. My question is actually: is that going to be considered while the experiment is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u30	Yes, that will continue to be considered, but it has already been considered. In my introduction, I said that there was already three of the evaluation in year and four of the decision-making in year. If the decision-making is positive, you do not need the phasing-out and you can continue the experiment for one and a half years. It's all theoretical, but it's a matter of planning and script thinking. After the decision-making in year four, therefore, there is scope for the phasing-out period, which is not necessary, and an extension of one and a half years to make legislation for the continuation of the situation. So that's what we've been thinking about. In our correspondence you can read that the experiment lasts up to six years in total. Finally, a question from Mrs Bikker on process and planning. Does the next cabinet have control over the experiment? I will answer that question in the affirmative, assuming that this cabinet is on the way. For the next cabinet that sits out the ride, I'll rate it in the next cabinet. Control of the experiment will be exercised in the sense of: should it continue, will it continue, will it be phased out, how will it be phased out? These issues will then be dealt with. Then I have another folder "internationally." Mr Janssen spoke about this, but also Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks, Mrs Bikker, Mr Rombouts, Mr Meijer, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Recourt; in fact, you have all asked a question about the tension between the experiment on the one hand and international and European law on the other. We have also pointed this out in our explanatory statement. With the experiment we want to investigate whether it is possible to create a closed coffeeshop chain and what its effects are on the above-mentioned areas of crime, public order and public health. In view of the problems experienced in practice in the current situation, we consider that tension can be justified. At the same time, we want to reduce this tension wherever possible. Therefore, an experiment limited in time and size has been chosen. That's what I say wherever I go internationally. It's an experiment limited in time and size. It has a fixed duration, which is laid down in the law. In addition, the experiment is limited to ten municipalities. Outside these ten municipalities, the Opium Act remains in full force. Finally, there is a legally guaranteed evaluation, with a strong scientific character. That is also what I always add when I speak internationally on this subject. I think it is important that the Netherlands communicate openly and transparently about the experiment and that we do so with our neighbouring countries, but also with the other EU Member States and with the European Commission, in advance and also in the coming years: to continue to tell us what progress has been made in the experiment. We do the same outside the EU at UN level. We do this in the Commission on Narcotics Drugs and we do it in the context of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. We also want to show international society, outside the EU, what progress has been made. This sometimes reaps criticism and sometimes approval, but in any case I think that is the best way to explain that it is a limited experiment in size and time with a legally guaranteed evaluation and with a strong scientific character. It is important to keep communicating with different parties about this, because developments in the Netherlands are not on their own. In many more countries a debate is taking place on how to handle cannabis. This has led to steps towards regulation in countries such as Canada and several states of the United States. Other countries, such as Luxembourg, have plans for a policy change or are preparing a referendum on this subject, as in New Zealand. There are also countries that deliberately do not yet take such steps. We consciously choose to test the effects first with an experiment. Only then will decision-making take place. Effects can only be measured if we experiment. That is why we are looking for scope within international and European law, precisely in order to be able to test the effects on a small scale. We explain that abroad as best we can. So far, this has not led to formal reactions. However, we note that there are questions about the design of the experiment, that there is interest in the findings that will result from it, and that there is appreciation of the open and transparent way in which we enter into the discussion both in countries and in international organisations. If the Chamber agrees to this bill, we will inform all relevant organisations and Member States, both at European level and at the UN level, about the follow-up to the experiment. The European Commission, the International Narcotics Control Board or other countries or organisations may come up with a formal response, but that is up to them to decide. It's hard to anticipate that as a cabinet. I'll repeat it again. It goes without saying that the Netherlands will continue the open dialogue conducted so far in an equally transparent manner. A few more questions, specifically on a number of international aspects. How does the Minister view Luxembourg's intention, as Mrs De Boer said. We are following developments in Luxembourg with interest. It is good to note that Luxembourg is still at the orientation stage for new legislation. We are in contact with Luxembourg. Mrs Bikker asked how we look at the situation in Canada. We are following Canada's legalisation very closely. I have just made a comment on this. It didn't come up very much this afternoon. With the information and warnings to be used on the packaging, but also for the rest, what such a packaging should look like in terms of color usage and that it should not look exciting, we have been able to learn from Canada. There are few figures available about Canada, no official figures, at least, but we are also monitoring developments closely in that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u31	The example from Canada which the Minister mentioned earlier in his speech did not reassure me, to be honest. He spoke about coffeeshops that were immediately sold out and said that this should not be the case here in the Netherlands. As far as I'm concerned, it's only good if the demand is as low as possible and we shouldn't have it in stock for as many people as possible who come storming into these new coffee shops. That's my point right there. One of the lessons I see in the situation that is developing in Canada, but also in the various states in America where this has been tried for a long time, is the standardisation of drug use. This returns several times, including in international reports. How does the Minister follow that? What concerns does he get out of that? These countries are also ahead of us and we could learn important lessons from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u32	We also discussed this in the House of Representatives. We try to follow developments in Canada and America by having regular contact. We can do that very well through the gremia of Europe and the United Nations. Reports are also being made and there are exchanges, not only at the official level, but also at the political level. I myself, for example, have regular contact with the Canadian colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u33	That is a wonderful political, technical response, but I want to know how the Minister sees this standardisation and whether it affects him. What's he thinking about? So not only the technique, the policy and the discussions, but precisely the concerns we share. He just put it right with what he doesn't want with vulnerable target groups. How does he follow that precisely at that point and what developments can we expect there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u34	We learn from experience from other countries. We can follow developments there. With regard to the phrase 'drug use is not normal', I read the remark I made earlier on the occasion of Mr Rombouts. I think that we should pay a great deal of attention to prevention, because drug use is not normal. Mr Meijer asks us to comment on the Council of State's comment on the extent of the experiment in relation to the high ambitions and expectations. The Council of State stresses the need to launch a meaningful, credible and scientifically sound experiment. The cabinet believes that it is possible to set up such an experiment within the framework laid down in the legislative proposal. We have taken advantage of the advice of Knottnerus. But we have also made a broader assessment of the tension of the experiment with European and international law. With the proposed number of these ten municipalities, we think we have an experiment of sufficient size to make meaningful statements about the effects on public health, crime or security, and to prevent nuisances. At the same time, the extent can be explained abroad in the light of the aforementioned tension. There is therefore a combination of on the one hand not all municipalities but ten municipalities, the variation in the municipalities, the spread over the Netherlands, the fact that, as Mr Dittrich appointed this afternoon, not all but about one in seven coffee shops in the Netherlands will participate through those ten municipalities. You always try to find the balance between a meaningful experiment on the one hand and not organize legalization nationally with one big throw on the other. We weren't going to. This is about international. Then I have a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u35	Still, let's talk about the extent of the experiment. The coalition agreement is a starting point. That's six to ten. I have a strong impression that you are then making up arguments to sell it internationally. The Knottnerus Committee and the Council of State clearly say that the scale is too small to draw good conclusions. When you talk about internationalism, you often say: it is limited in size, there are only ten of them, then perhaps they will allow it. My reasoning is: if you have a broader experiment, you might be able to draw stronger conclusions from it, which might allow the current policy to be adapted. Today's policy is not good at international level either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u36	Mr Knottnerus said in his first opinion that perhaps you could reach the number of municipalities that belong to the test in a very different way. I would like to point out that, of course, we have had a debate in the Chamber about six to ten. On the other hand, you also need participating municipalities. I am glad that ten municipalities have stuck their necks out and that they are scattered across the Netherlands. There will be 79 or 80 coffeeshops and I think that's quite a number. On the one hand, you have the limitation, on the other hand, the defence, because I see that tension with international regulation. I'm not cleaning it away. I'm trying to explain it. But it is part of my speech, also at the international table, to say that it is not an experiment for the whole of the Netherlands, but for a number of municipalities, and that in the rest of the Netherlands the Opium Act remains in full force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u37	In addition, of course, there is no G4 municipality, which in my view limits the nature and extent of the experiment even further. But that will be dealt with in a moment, so I will deal with that in response to your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u38	That's good. Mr. Chairman. Just one more question. Mr Van Dijk asked: why not introduce a ban on counter-experiments in certain municipalities rather than tolerate them, and then see what the consequences are? That question also sounded like that in the Lower House. I reply just as I replied in the Lower House that the cabinet has opted for this experiment. Believe me, it's already quite complicated to prepare, realize and set up. That is why we do not consider it desirable to carry out further experiments at the same time. That's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u39	Thank you for that answer, Minister. Of course I understand that, but at the same time it is a pity. Then there really would have been something to choose. We have tried it for 40 years with tolerance policies, a very half-hearted policy that has not worked out well. Surely it would be extremely interesting to fly it from the other side and simply to maintain it more strictly on a product that we as a government ban? It is a great pity that we cannot gain experience with this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u40	With the experiment we are talking about tonight, there is also something to choose. There is something to choose from the facts and figures we collect. That's what we call the effects. I think that is a good way to conduct that discussion on the basis of facts and figures and to look at what choice we want to make on the basis of measured effects. So there is certainly something to choose, but first the facts on the table. Mr. Chairman. Three more questions. Mr Rombouts' question was how it is ensured that cultivation meets market demand. The answer is that growers are expected to be able to continuously produce and supply various types of hemp and hash. Attention will be paid to this during the selection process and the preparation of the experiment. Following the designation of producers, they may start their growing plant. At this stage they will coordinate with participating coffeeshops on the species to be grown. The experiment can only begin after the designated growers have established a stock of hemp and hashish in such a way that coffeeshops can count on a stable supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u41	I would like to continue with the question put by Mr Van Dijk. From a scientific point of view, we also find it very interesting to look at the spectrum from both sides. There are countries where the experiment with liberalisation has taken place, but there are also countries where more stringent action is being taken. Is it also looking at countries like Sweden?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u42	I have already said that, apart from this experiment, we do not want to carry out any other experiments. However, we would like to take note of developments in other countries. I think we should do that fairly actively. At the moment, the list I have mentioned is still quite clear, but I predict that there will be many more countries in the coming period. Following international developments is therefore becoming an increasingly important task, but no less interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u43	My question is, in fact, if the experiment were to fail, will other countries where there is a more repressive policy be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u44	Now Mr Van Wely's voice is falling a little, "if it would fail unexpectedly." But should we wait and see the effects first? Surely that should be the choice we would like to put to you in the legislative proposal? Let us first measure the effects and, on the basis of the measured effects, have an evaluation carried out by an independent party. Then we can go back to the political conversation to see what our conclusions are based on the facts that have been measured in the past few years. Mr. Chairman. I have another question from Mrs Bikker, who asked whether it would not be important to involve the CCMO, the Central Committee on Human Research, in this experiment. The Law on Medical Scientific Research with People, the WMO, lays down rules to ensure the safety of subjects, such as in the study with new medicinal products in medical research. The WMO prescribes in advance a medical-ethical review in those cases. The experiment closed coffeeshop chain is not medical-scientific research. It is really a subject that the CCMO itself says we have been in contact with, that they are not the designated party and that they do not see a role for themselves. Frankly, I do not see it on the basis of this WMO either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u45	This is a very important point for my group. We are going to allow soft drugs on the market which the government has said we have approved. It is still soft drugs, with all the consequences, but we have approved them and people are using them. They have a certain confidence in that. We do this in the form of an experiment that we say is scientific. This is exactly how we can explain it internationally. And that is exactly how we can find supporters if the results are as the government intends. But if you make an experiment scientific, you have to answer for those ethical questions, too. The Knottnerus Consultative Commission says precisely on this point: concern that CCMO. I don't necessarily think it's the CCMO. However, I would like to say that we are carrying out ethical checks as is customary in science. So I'm not talking about the law, I'm talking about the scientific standard. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u46	That is a trade-off which is actually part of this debate. I have argued that I do not see a role for the CCMO and that the CCMO itself does not see it either. In this debate, as we did in the House of Representatives, we will have to decide whether we consider this experiment to be justified in order to implement it. The answer from the cabinet to that is yes. We want that. We will take all kinds of measures, such as prevention, but also many other measures, which Mr Grapperhaus will be discussing shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u47	But that is not an answer to the question I am asking about the scientific content of the experiment. Politicians can find anything about that. I just said something about the THC content, and one of my colleagues mentioned the political argument. It wasn't about that, but that's how you see it: politics sometimes reminds you of the things we bring together. The cabinet thinks it's important that it's a scientific experiment. The Knottnerus Consultative Commission says in particular with regard to the AMvB: make sure that it has been ethically tested and complies with those scientific standards. That's why I'm giving the Minister this handshake. It doesn't have to be that committee for me, but every university has such an ethics committee in every research that has anything to do with psychiatry or behavior, just to validate science. The cabinet is now saying: we could do that here with each other. But that's not true, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u48	Maybe I didn't understand the question. I think you should talk very carefully about whether we want to organise such an experiment in the Netherlands. We do so in the Second and First Chambers, because we do not want this to lead to a normalization of drug use. That is why we are careful about this and we are setting it up in countless ways. That is why we are discussing it. In the experiment we collect facts and measure effects, including in the field of public health. We accompany this with a research team and also with a guidance committee with scientists of different kinds. People are being recruited for that right now. These are experts who are outside politics. Afterwards, this report with the impact assessment, with the views of the advisory committee, will be brought back to politics. That is the moment when we will talk about it as a political one. To be honest, I thought that was a good choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u49	But I do not think that choice is complete. That's what I'm trying to put down to the Minister. All these experts in this discussion, if they do a study at their own university that is going on in this field, will talk to that ethics committee to see if it is indeed scientifically sound what they are doing, to validate it and to be able to share it with other countries, so that research is of international value. I do not see why this could be an obstacle to the cabinet, while contributing to the strength of the scientific strength of this experiment. This is really an important point for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u50	Yeah, but I can't do better than I answer. On the one hand, the design of the experiment is carefully prepared with the associated research team. Then there will be a guidance committee with several scientists who will express a view on this in all freedom and openness. Then it comes back to the political arena. That seems to me to be the right way of working: acting on the basis of the facts. Finally, Mr Van Dijk's question is whether hospitals and aid agencies should not share information on drug use. We don't need specifics or news for that, because health services and specific hospitals already collect drug incidents in the Latvian Information System. Information on drug use is thus already being shared. This is a standing practice and can be continued in the coming years. I take this information to the National Drug Monitor who regularly prepares the Trimbos Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u51	Thanks for the response. I am pleased that you mention the Trimbos Institute, because my information is also extracted from the monitor of that institute. It says literally that in 2018 it was a thick 6,100 incidents. The Trimbos Institute itself adds that this is a fraction of the actual number. Indeed, the vast majority of emergency and ambulance services do not share the information on this issue. Have I read it wrong now, or is this a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u52	The fact that this information is collected in a drug monitor that includes twenty health services seems very useful to me. This will enable us to have that information in the coming years, during the duration of the experiment. I would just like to emphasise in my reply that there are health services and fourteen hospitals that collect information and have a Latvian Information System. There are therefore measures already in place to this end. That's what I've been trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u53	It is true that it is about the purpose. If it is guaranteed that that information is on the table and the Minister is behind it, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u54	That's what I'm trying to say with my answer. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. I would like to ask you whether I have understood you in general as to the future. Are you saying that not this cabinet makes the political decision on progress, but the cabinet afterwards? Did I also hear you say that we have a deadline of one and a half years plus six months, sufficient to get the legislation in order, should it be decided to continue? Then there is the third point. Did I hear you say that at the moment we do not see any obstacles in treaties to achieving the continuation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u56	Yes, you may draw that conclusion. I mentioned in my speech that I see tension between the experiment on the one hand and international regulation on the other, but that on the basis of the discussions we are having on both sides, i.e. within Europe and the UN, I think we should continue to explain it transparently. I have indicated that within Europe and the UN there are several other countries that are now addressing these issues. I therefore believe that the regulations and views of these international bodies have not been laid down in concrete form, even in the years to come. I'm not trying to add value to that. I think there is and remains tension, but on the other hand there is also room because many countries like to follow our experiment. We cannot exclude international or formal reactions, but I think we can organise this experiment in the Netherlands. I'm pretty sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u57	Thank you. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u58	Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u59	I now turn to the Ministry of Justice and Security. Oh, excuse me, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u60	Excuse me, the Minister's stopping faster than I thought, Mr. Chairman. One of the Minister's headlines was the involvement of other organisations in the experiment. In that cup I asked the question to what extent the rather well-known organisation of Brave Mothers, who, of course, are working hard on the road to draw attention to their miserable experiences with drug-addicted children, is still involved in this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u61	Yes. There are good contacts with the mothers you mentioned. Mr Grapperhaus has now, as I understand it, also had contact with Brave Mothers. Soon they will be visiting Mr Blokhuis, specifically on the issue of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u62	Thanks to the Minister for Medical Care and Sports. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u63	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with my congratulations and at the same time compliments to the maiden speakers, in this case your members Van Wely, Dittrich, Janssen, Bezaan, Meijer and Recourt. They have already shown with their critical considerations that we will not, of course, be facing interesting debates here with each other. Before misunderstandings arise, I would like to note that this does not affect the high content of the contributions of those who had already passed their maiden speech. You will understand that, given my portfolio, I would like to address the questions relating to public order, security and crime. Let me say a few words about the number of municipalities participating and the excellent advisory committee led by Professor Knottnerus. First of all, how this experiment relates to the broad offensive against organised undermining crime, which we used as a cabinet. I can assure you that at the end of the first term, when I respond to your Member Rombouts' motion, I will continue to address this point. After investing heavily in recent years in strengthening the fight against this serious undermining crime, the cabinet, as you have read at the beginning of this week, is giving an extra boost to its approach. There are a lot of urgent and sad reasons for this. The aim of the approach is to strengthen impact and intelligence, to process and share data, to monitor and secure the system to prevent drug crime and to counter standardisation. But the approach is, of course, mainly focused on what I have always mentioned, so rolling up, taking away and preventing this serious drug crime. A clear and unambiguous policy on cannabis also contributes to tackling undermining. There is no such clear policy at the moment. Some Members have already put that forward. This is also the reason why many mayors and other local leaders have called for the possibility of changing that policy. The experiment we are talking about today comes from that. It focuses on the inconsistency that has been in the tolerance policy for many years now: we tolerate the sale of cannabis in the coffee shop, but its delivery at the back door is illegal. And with that, it's in criminal hands. The purpose of the experiment is to examine whether the supply of coffeeshops can be withdrawn from the hands of criminals and what the effects of such intervention would be on crime, nuisance, safety and public health. A subsequent cabinet, Mr Bruins, has already considered it. On the basis of the conclusions drawn from the experiment, a decision will be taken on the future of cannabis policy with which both the fight against undermining crime and public health is best served. You will forgive me if I quote this as a recurring motive a number of times from the coalition agreement. If that experiment is over and evaluated, then the cabinet, the cabinet sitting, will see what it has to do. Then I'll come straight to the questions from your room. I will begin with Mr Rombouts and Mrs Bikker, who actually looked at me with a very profound report and said: does the cabinet really believe that crime is going to go down? Well, the experiment creates a closed coffee shop chain where legally grown cannabis is delivered to the coffee shops. It therefore focuses on what I have pointed out, that great inconsistency in that policy of tolerance, and aims to see whether the surrender can be taken out of the hands of criminals. The effects that that has, we are going to measure in broad terms on all parts. We do not want to create the illusion that this will completely eliminate illegal cannabis cultivation immediately. At the moment, it is part of organised undermining crime, and I am acting hard against it. But it's up to another cabinet to make the choices. As a result of 'do you really believe' I say that the experiment will have to show what the effects are on safety, crime, nuisance and public health. Then you need to see what comes out of it and how you should move on. As Minister of Justice and Security and as a lawyer, I would not do well if I were to associate certain beliefs or advantages with that experiment in advance. That experiment must have a pure character. I shall come back to the critical remarks made by Mr Janssen and others, among others: what about the scientific aspects? Mr Rombouts asked how you are going to ensure that illegal and legal flows remain separate. That is a very fair question. The most important thing is that the chain is closed. By this, I mean that no legally grown cannabis is sold to anyone other than the participating coffee shops and that coffee shops do not sell cannabis other than those of the designated growers. To monitor this, it is arranged that both growers and coffee shop owners provide certain data with a unique coding for the purpose of a track-and-trace system. That system is still being developed technologically. Monitoring of the closed chain is carried out by the Justice and Security Inspectorate. An enforcement arrangement will be drawn up with the participating municipalities, the supervisors, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office on the cooperation and demarcation of supervision and enforcement, both administrative and criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u64	Drugs are also sold outside the coffee shops. I am referring, for example, to the so-called drug couriers on scooters. How does the Minister intend to address this problem in the participating municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u65	It is quite clear that the experiment assumes that all coffee shops in a municipality participate. What the honourable Member, Mr Bezaan, has just pointed out is one of the many reasons for doing so with all the coffee shops in that municipality. You must then have one uniform situation in that municipality, so that you can also have one enforcement policy. Also the street trade, this motorized or electrified trade, I don't know, you must indeed have banned in that municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u66	But how do you expect to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u67	As has already been said, we have enforcement to ensure that this is already the case in the case of people who do not carry illegal goods in their courier service. At the moment, because of the inconsistency I mentioned, it is much more difficult to maintain than it will be in the future, if we say in the context of the experiment in each participating municipality: all coffeeshops must participate in the experiment, so that you are sure that the one with the moped cannot transport those drugs, because that is not allowed. By the way, if someone shows up on his moped from a distance, another municipality, to deliver those drugs, I think it's gonna be a valuable raise on the price. We have to assume that the market will then do its job. Is the government prepared to undermine the experiment in the form of fake news? The point here is, of course, that we are primarily committed to strengthening the self-corrective capacity of participants in the public debate, and through you I am addressing the questioner, Mr Dittrich. We should not initially place the content of disinformation in the hands of the public authorities, because then the public authorities will come into a domain which is once again very sensitive in terms of freedom of expression. You have to put that down especially with the journalism and science and the critics who come from those corners. However, communication about the experiment is essential to the success of the experiment. So we will do so in the field of public communication, including on the website of the government. Mr Rombouts raised the critical question of why we should succeed in what is not possible in Canada; 80% is for exports. Mr Bruins has already indicated that it is too early to draw conclusions on the consequences of legalisation in Canada. I have also read the report of the delegation that has been there. There are also a number of assumptions that we cannot really go forward with each other. I would like, through you, to assure all Members here that, of course, we will continue to monitor closely how it develops in some of these countries, including the United States, including Colorado. The situation in the Netherlands is not one-on-one comparable to that in Canada. We'll start an experiment to see if I can come back to the consequences of legalizing the production and delivery of cannabis in a chain. We are not blind to the illegal cultivation for export. That is an important part of organised undermining crime. We'll continue to bet heavily on that as a cabinet. Once again, the next cabinet must look at the conclusions of this experiment, including the fight against exports. Then the question is how the drug gangs themselves will react. Mr Van Wely referred to the word mafia. I must tell you that the serious crime in the Netherlands is already such that we do not even have to use an Italian reference word anymore. The experiment will take the supply of coffeeshops out of the hands of criminals in the participating municipalities. This is a small proportion of total drug production in the Netherlands. A large part is also exported abroad. It cannot be excluded that organised crime will respond to the experiment. That is why police and prosecutors are always involved in the establishment, will also be involved in the experiment and measures will be taken for the security of the closed chain. I should like to comment briefly on Mrs Bikker's important point about the emergency brake. It also plays a role in this, but I will come to that in a moment. Am I sure organized crime isn't gonna get a hold of the experiment? Let me begin by saying that, of course, we are all in favour of excluding any form of abuse of the experiment by organised crime. That's precisely why we have the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office closely involved in the facility. Those are the experts who can tell us where there might be weak spots that could get the water in. That is why we have also set up a working group with the participating municipalities and relevant services dealing with all safety aspects of the experiment. And that is why there is also a licensing procedure for growers. A form of comprehensive screening is applied at several times. A vog is not the only thing, there will also be a Bibob screening that will check whether there is a risk that the indication as a grower will also be used to commit criminal offences or gain financial benefit. That is to say, improper financial advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u68	A question from Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u69	Yeah, I have a question about this. Are the cultivation communities also involved in this? We are talking about municipalities where coffeeshops are located, but there will soon be municipalities with plantations on their territory where they will be grown. They must of course also be protected, because they can also be part of organised crime. Are these municipalities also involved and are they sufficiently protected if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u70	The cultivation communities are indeed involved in the safety aspects. But the cultivation communities still have to be selected. Whether this is done in the form of a working group is still to be determined. But I want to say out loud that they too are involved. Mr Van Dijk asked if I was prepared to acknowledge that the opinion on drug use is tilting. I must always be careful, of course, because he refers above all to statements made by myself and then to the Prime Minister. Let me say this about it. In March 2018, the police chief, Mr Akerboom, made clearly harsh, confrontational remarks about yogasnuiers, as he called it. Moreover, I had a good discussion with one of your Members about whether Mr Paulissen, a very well-known chief of police from Brabant who has done a great deal there against undermining crime, had not brought that idea to Mr Akerboom. That's all Akerboom and he have to fight both of them, but at least I want to mention him. Not long after that, at an international drug conference, I myself used the expression that drug users had to look "in the mirror', which, above all, inspired De Telegraaf to all nice puns that I had apparently made unintentionally, because a mirror seems to be part of the toolbox of certain drug users. That was all in March 2018. I can tell you that Akerboom, myself, but also others were actually hoarded away at the time. Let's just say it out loud here. I said it on September 11, a week before the scandalous murder of Derk Wiersum, also in the House of Representatives. And we kept saying it. The group of people who have continued to say it has grown because it was clear to us who work with it in the field of Justice and Security, but also in the field of Health, Welfare and Sport of colleague Bruins, that this ever-increasing normalization of drug use... And then you have to remember that not even the group of users increases, but the group of people around it: parents, educators, teachers and others. They're starting to get something from: well, it's part of the deal. And that such a group of students uses a number of years, that's life. The collateral damage is then that two out of twenty in the xtc or cocaine no longer get away from it at all and are going to be among the 31 million people worldwide who have a psychosis to the use of hard drugs. Source: United Nations figures. It's a bit of an introduction, but I wanted to explain it again. In the meantime, I can inform Mr Van Dijk that there is indeed a certain amount of tilting. Drivers who may have refused to do so at first have also spoken out and said out loud that legalisation is not an option. You will forgive me if I have to correct Mr Dittrich, whom I consider to be very high. For what Tops and Tromp said, namely that the government should prepare itself for possible legalisation, they did not write in their report. Moreover, this is how they recognise themselves not a scientific report, but an overview and a summary of existing reports. In the light of 50 years of Abbey Road from The Beatles, you could compare it with some sort of greatest hits from existing scientific reports. But they didn't say that in there. I understand that your room wasn't ready at the time. They have written an opinion piece in the Volkskrant. Source: Volkskrant's opinion page of 11 September 2019. That's where they said it. I spoke to the gentlemen in the House of Representatives, which was a bit complicated, through the chairman and the members of the House of Representatives, and said: that is a shame, because you have made a very clear report of greatest hits, but this is an opinion, which is not supported by the report. Let me finish, but I still think that Mr Van Dijk, and indeed the other 74 Members, owe it: legalization of hard drugs is not an option. Let's make that very clear. I know that the vote in the United Nations for years has been unisono, not only from the United States, but also from large countries such as Russia and China, is that it is not on the agenda, apart from my conviction about the dangers of social disruption and health risks in relation to hard drugs. So I say to Mr Van Dijk: yes, perhaps it is gradually tilting. But we still have a lot to do to really get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u71	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. He said very nice, raucous things. Let's assume, and I'd like to assume, that he's right and the pendulum of drug tolerance is heading in the right direction, as the General Journal wrote, then it's just such a shame that we're going to do an experiment with which we're sending out an opposite signal, which is that drug use isn't so bad? Isn't it the government's stamp that we're cooperating in normalization? It's too bad we're going against that pendulum with an experiment like this, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u72	Mr Van Dijk uses the word "sin." I do not want to make this evening's debate too difficult, but I have to think a little bit about the original sin. We have 50 years of tolerance here. If that tolerance policy calls into question, you'd almost cut a spacecake to celebrate. But we don't. We have that tolerance policy. As I said in my introduction, it is important that we carry out an experiment through this legislative proposal that will provide clarity for those who support it, but also for those who oppose it. Can we indeed decriminalise this production, without endangering public health and the like? Then a next cabinet will have to say what that means for later generations. But, therefore, I brought up this original sin we owe it to the generations after us to do something about this unclear situation and to do something about it. And to say, we're gonna do that experiment now. I understand very well that some of your group's members say that this is very good from the point of view of: who knows, we might be moving further towards possible thinking about legalisation. Who knows, but not under this minister, because in two years there will be a new cabinet. I also understand that there are groups that say: we will have to move in a different direction. That is why the experiment must be pure, because we owe it to the generations after us. Mr. Chairman. Are we gonna be in jail for five years? That was Mrs Bikker's point, and I think it is a very important point. In fact, I would find it terrible, as responsible for Justice and, above all, for Security, if we were to see, for example, that in two or three years' time the serious drug crime will develop in a number of these municipalities in such a way that it is not going well. In that sense, therefore, we clearly have a commitment within that time frame and we also have a very clear emergency braking system. I just grabbed it again, just as a result of the discussion. This emergency braking system offers the possibility to intervene immediately if things get out of hand in a municipality or if you really notice that something is not going well at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u73	Mrs. Bikker, you want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u74	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you felt very well. The Minister emphasized it: "to intervene in a municipality." It also seems logical to me that that is the first exit, namely if something happens to a municipality that we say: no, that was not the intention of the experiment and that cannot go on. However, my question looked at something broader, namely the policy of the cabinet. I have argued that this experiment should provide building blocks for a follow-up to soft drugs policy. But what if we already see very clearly that there are serious consequences with regard to serious crime or with regard to public health, which I have already mentioned with Mr Bruins? If we see in these consequences that this experiment is not the answer, but rather contributes to a deterioration, can the Minister intervene himself in a way that will stop the experiment? An emergency brake won't call it, but can it intervene in that way? Or are we, for five years, tied together, watching how this develops, without building blocks coming out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u75	Let me read the article. That is what I am really doing just to clarify the discussion for the people who are following this debate. Article 6 (2) states: "In the event of urgency, our ministers for the protection of public health or in the interests of public order and security may impose a burden of immediate cessation of the experiment on a designated municipality." I think that it is decided that at that time the ministers can actually say: now we have to stop doing this. And, by the way, for those who are concerned about this, I would like to say that, in a state of law, it goes on to say: 'The imposition of the burden is made known in the Official Journal. After the decision to impose the charge becomes final..." And so on, and so on. There is therefore also a possibility of appeal. At that moment, this burden is immediately applied, and we can imagine it, but there is always a possibility of appeal. It sounds a little presumptuous, because it is a proposal that comes from us, but I think it is a very good and clear arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u76	Well, congratulations to the Minister for that feeling and for letting him share it. But for me, it's in that word "happiness." I can very well imagine that urgency is needed. Suppose something happens to the cultivation that we say: well, this all ends up with criminals immediately and we don't want that. Then we need immediate intervention. My question is a little broader. Suppose we see within two years that this does not produce building blocks and that the trend is negative. So there is no urgent situation, but we can see that the experiment does not contribute to the good that everyone in this room is looking for. We all have our own views on this, but everyone is looking for a different drug policy that is more effective. At that point, my quest is for another cabinet. Is this what we're defining policy for five years? Or is it also going to be honest to see if we can find those building blocks that are needed to draw conclusions from this? So I am referring to a trend rather than an urgent calamity that requires intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u77	My answer to Mrs Bikker's question as to whether we are not at risk was in two parts. It's good to name it one more time. The first part is: this is very clearly limited in time. So that means we know: okay, we're gonna do it over that period. Then it can be extended for another six months and that's it. So four plus a half. Am I saying it right? Yes. That's one limit. It is true that as long as the experiment is going on, it will work as we have democratically established it with each other. Otherwise, of course, there's no point in an experimental law. If halfway through the experiment a new cabinet drains the valve, we all never knew what we were doing. In a good democracy, it's part of the way you set it up. But the second part is that emergency braking procedure. And the beauty of this emergency braking procedure is that it is separate from the policy. That is why I also stressed that there are those appeals. In this procedure, "our ministers" can be used, i.e. The Minister of Justice and Security, and those of VWS, are simply motivated: listen, there are now real dangers to public health and we cannot get it under control. I would like to give an example of how criminals are manipulated in this regulated cultivation, or whatever. The ministers can then say that we must now turn the switch into municipality X, and perhaps also into municipality Y. Most experimental laws don't have a very powerful emergency braking procedure. At least we have built them in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u78	I will come back to the emergency braking procedure in conjunction with the number of participating municipalities. Knottnerus and the Council of State say "more than ten" and "very tight." Now we're going to start with ten municipalities, if it goes on, which I assume. Let's say one or two municipalities are falling apart. What remains of the experiment and the data collected? Has it been considered what a critical lower limit is to make the experiment useful?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u79	Let me start with the next part, because then I immediately had that and the answer gets more context. We must, of course, realise that the committee has also advised on control municipalities. It is up to the evaluation committee to decide which control municipalities are to be established. And if you add the participating municipalities and the control municipalities together, you already come to twenty municipalities. I was told by someone who is more beta than I, that that is about a fifth of the municipalities with coffee shops in the Netherlands. As an ex-lawyer, I think that's pretty representative, but okay. I was just talking about City X and City Y on purpose. I come from that point of view on the situation that it is decided that municipality X and municipality Y no longer participate. Then the experiment will still continue as we agreed with each other, so with the other municipalities that are in it, and for the duration that has been agreed. And suppose that there will not be an appeal procedure which states that our ministers should not have taken that decision until such an immediate strike. Then the fact that one or two municipalities have failed will also be taken into account in the experiment. I'm not gonna throw away all the possibilities right now, because then it's gonna be "if the apples were pumpkins." However, we must realise that if there really is an emergency situation in the area of public health or crime, which I was talking about with Mrs Bikker, and then that municipality has to stop, it will play a part. Then the result in that municipality is of course the fact that stopped there, and the why and what happened then. Of course, that counts in your experiment. Finally, I would like to say the following, because otherwise we will be huge doom-thinkers and that should not be beautiful in life. In responding to these points, I have just begun to say that we have really built all kinds of safety measures, safety nets and safeguards into this experiment. So it is not that Mr Bruins and I are going to do a bit of an experiment with a blindfold. We have all those things like sealing, the track-and-trace, the very carefully selected growers, the control communities and so on. That's all built in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u80	That is a long answer, which was partly an answer to my question. My question is that in every experiment with scientific justification you also have a critical lower limit. You can check that out in advance. That's not doomsday, because I hope it succeeds. I hope all ten municipalities participate. Control municipalities are not reserve municipalities. Let's be clear about that, too. They don't get in the moment another gets out. At least that's not how I understood it. But it's precisely me that you think about it in advance, so that you don't get mugged if at some point one or two congregations fall out, which I don't hope, and that the scientific data you collected at that time still have enough value. It's already tight to do it with ten. For such a long experiment and for everything we invest in it and all the effort and energy that goes into it, because we hope that it will come to a successful conclusion, my question is: can we think about it in advance, so that we have a picture of it? I hope it doesn't happen, but I do want us to map it and not get mugged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u81	I thought I was giving a whole answer. I admit it was a long time, but I gave a whole answer about those one or two municipalities. Look, if you want to test if bunnies can do the 100 meters in ten seconds, and two out of ten bunnies say after 30 meters, "I'm gonna quit, because I'm not gonna pull this," yeah, those are the results that count in your experiment of those ten bunnies. I am referring to the fact that you cannot ask us to appoint substitute municipalities in advance, for example. That is not going to happen, because the coalition members would be very disappointed in Bruins and in me, especially in me, I think if we started an experiment in which municipalities could not compete against all kinds of difficult influences and then had to give up halfway. We did a really good job of selecting. The committee has advised us in this and we have followed that advice. We have good guarantees in the experiment. If there are two bunnies that give up, it's part of our report of the experiment. This was, once again, a complete answer, I hope. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt asked if I could share the analysis that is acceptable only temporarily and that a choice should be made between legalising or prohibiting. Does it have to be complete legalization, or is this just a limited experiment? Local directors and mayors are the people who really do the job and who are confronted with the bad things. Rombouts has already said something about this in his introduction, namely that it is difficult in certain regions. That's exactly what we said we should do that experiment. The choice is also indicated there. Those drivers want to know whether they need to go to legalization or a ban. The experiment is there to provide us with information. What are the consequences if you set up a legal road on that production side? Once again, a next cabinet will say what we are going to do with this. That is what the two of us are getting ahead of, of course, and the whole cabinet is not getting ahead of it. Mr Recourt also asked what profit you can now gain on safety. At least he asked if I could explain that. In this way, when the provision of supplies is regulated, you have the opportunity to see whether it is actually successfully taken out of the hands of organised crime, or whether you can see that it is no longer in line with the undermining crime and whether it still serves the interests of public order and public health. The criteria for what is now a successful experiment are not very clearly formulated. Mr Van Wely, but also Mr Dittrich, asked for it. They're not like, say, strict mathematical criteria. This experiment is valuable if we get information that will allow the next cabinet to come to political decision-making, regardless of what I said in the House of Representatives in January this year. So we should not focus specifically on health gains or reduction of drug crime. No, we're gonna do the experiment along these lines, and we're gonna see what happens at all these points. Nor should we anticipate what that next cabinet would say or wish to say. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Janssen asked us to look again at what the experiment would yield scientifically and socially. The experiment is therefore about decriminalizing the back door of the coffee shop and investigating whether the supply can be removed from the criminal circuit. A larger-scale experiment does not necessarily provide more insight into this regulation. Once again, as a cabinet, we were otherwise we had not begun to believe that this experiment, with this size, could also be used to collect valuable information. Although resources are not unlimited, enforcement burdens are not decisive. You have also been able to see that they are indeed included in the experiment. I do agree with Mr Janssen that the experiment is not an end in itself. It is a means of obtaining information that allows a subsequent cabinet to decide on other policies, or not. But at least that's up to that other cabinet at the time. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a question by Mr Janssen on the report by the Knottnerus Committee. We have taken this opinion very seriously. For the most part, the opinions were taken on board: the selection of ten growers, the supply of a variety of products, the requirements of packaging. We also took over from the second recommendation the municipalities nominated by the committee. Sometimes we have deviated from the advice as a result of discussions with important parties such as municipalities, coffeeshops and police. But that's what we motivated. On the specific issue of the extent of the experiment, the cabinet has taken into account research technical factors other than those recommended by the Advisory Committee alone. I would like to stress that the Knottnerus Committee does not say that this experiment no longer has scientific value if you do so with ten municipalities plus ten control municipalities. But it has been said that you will be able to draw less scientific final conclusions. That's a trade-off we've made. I am going back to my brief little debate with Mr Van Dijk on what I called the original sin; I really think it is very important that we do the experiment with each other now, perhaps with different angles at the beginning, so that we can get that clarity. Then a next cabinet can decide what will be the final path on which we will proceed. Mrs De Boer felt that the G4 should be involved in one way or another. With the research team to be appointed, we will discuss the possibilities of using the expertise in the G4 municipalities. I would like to stress that we are going to try to do this as well as possible, but how the Committee of Inquiry intends to do that, we really need to put it down to her. Utrecht can also be involved in this way, that was a point by Mr Meijer and Mr Recourt, but we must leave it to the Committee of Inquiry. Then there were a few questions from Mr Dittrich and Mr Meijer about monitoring and evaluation. Are we taking on board the aspect that cheap, illegal weed comes on the market in participating municipalities? At the start of the experiment, it is conceivable that the street trade will increase in one or more participating municipalities. That's a bit of a variation at the point that was just put forward. It is very important to monitor the situation prior to the experiment, both in the participating municipalities and in the surrounding municipalities. We need to identify the risks and solutions because of this street trade. That's why we started expert sessions with police, prosecutor's office, municipalities and tax authorities. They serve to develop various scenarios, so that we are prepared for possible measures at the start of the experiment. It is important that agreements are made in the local triangle prior to the experiment to determine the extra commitment needed in a participating municipalities. You have seen that there is also a year of preparation. That's really a year. That's right to set things up very carefully with each other. I'll tell you what, we're gonna do the same. Mr. Chairman. How are we going to evaluate the experiment, asked Mr Van Wely and Mr Dittrich. We informed your Chamber by letter of 15 May last. We're setting up an investigation team. At the moment the WODC is recruiting the researchers for this. It is expected that we will be able to do so by the end of this calendar year. In the letter of 15 May, we also identified a number of areas in which we formulated research questions on cultivation and distribution, supply and use, nuisance and crime, public health and the functioning of the closed chain. I refer you to that letter. I am not going to do it to you, Mr President, to repeat all that here. This research is accompanied by a monitoring and evaluation committee. That committee shall also carry out the final evaluation. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bikker asked: is that going to give enough building blocks for a next cabinet to improve policy? If it is really good, the monitoring experiment is not only well designed but also well supervised, so that the best possible conclusions can be drawn, I mean "process optimal', before people startle. It is about optimum conclusion content, so that as next cabinet you can say: we now have the results of this experiment and they really help us to see what we have to do. Mr. Chairman. As far as supervision and enforcement are concerned, I have been asked by some Members to reassure them that adequate agreements are being made with the participating municipalities without discussions on money or capacity. The participating municipalities will certainly receive a financial concession for additional capacity associated with participation in the experiment. We'll make arrangements about the coverage. The cost estimate made by the nominated municipalities, including the three border municipalities, serves as a basis. In that case, legal support from our administration has been promised to participating municipalities. If necessary, if mayors become involved in very fundamental issues the outcome of which is important for the experiment, the lawyer of the country will be involved. The cultivation communities. As soon as it is known in which municipalities the growers are located, they will discuss security support with them. As I said to you, Mr President, on a question from Mr Dittrich. We share that this experiment is part of a broader approach to poisonous, undermining crime. That's how I started. Border municipalities also receive a financial concession for additional capacity for supervision and enforcement. The trading stock. The experiment is intended to look at the effects of another design of the coffeeshop chain. We have taken up a maximum of one week's supply as a trading stock. We await the experiment before deciding on the current policy of tolerance, including on the issue of trading stock. That is also the only thing you can do in the light of legal certainty. At the same time, that's all you can do to help your experiment. Coordination of monitoring and enforcement between the actors in the experiment. The administrative supervision will be provided to the mayors, the Dutch Food and War Authority and the Justice and Security Inspectorate. Those supervisors, police and the Public Prosecutor's Office will establish an enforcement arrangement on cooperation and demarcation of supervision. Article 45 of the general administrative measure provides that supervisors may exchange data in the context of the exercise of supervision in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation. Then I immediately answered Mr Dittrich's point, which I look carefully at through you, Mr President. Then, Mr President, there was, of course, the issue of ensuring the protection of the participants in the experiment. That is a very important point, because we really want the experiment to be as safe as possible. I have said before that we realize that we are going to enter a market, the production of cannabis, where criminals, and in many cases serious criminals, are mainly at the moment. That's why there's this big involvement of the police and the D.A.'s office. We're really gonna see how we can mitigate all these risks as best we can. Again, that is why this Bibob screening is a very important instrument. Mr Van Dijk asked whether we wanted the police capacity or even the army to be deployed for the purposes of the experiment. The task of the police during the experiment is, of course, to detect and enforce criminal offences. That's also true outside the experiment. The task of the police within the experiment is therefore limited. Mr Bruins and I did not intend to call on defence here. Then I have one more thing from Mrs Bikker and then I come to Mr Rombouts' motion. I don't see them right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u82	He left the room for a while. He'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u83	That's what I'm gonna do very quickly. No. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u84	I don't know what the minister had in the barrel, but my point was on the police for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u85	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u86	That's okay? Wow, that's extra nice. Thank you. In my contribution, I outlined the difference between an ordinary square metre of greenhouse horticulture and a square metre of indoor hemp cultivation. That's almost a factor of 1,000 difference in yield. That gave me the next question. I saw the enforcement arrangement, but I also see that little extra effort has been made by the police. How real is it that there is hardly any extra effort from the police if that trading stock or the cultivation that will take place there is so lucrative for these coffee shops to rip?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u87	In the year of preparation, we must look very closely at whether and to what extent it is lucrative to rip that stock. I do not rule out the fact that the enforcement arrangement needs extra effort. I think we should be very careful. I've seen people come across in the last few weeks in all sorts of so-called talk shows who say, what is 100 or 110 million for undermining against a billion dollars that an organization like this will take up in a year? The people who shout that ignore the fact that, of course, we already have a very large state infrastructure, even without Defence. So we have a very powerful police force, the number six worldwide. He's got his fast cars and stuff ready to go. So we don't have to do that again. You are focusing on enforcement here. Then it's about the extra people, the extra bets on that. But again, I say to you immediately that we are going to look, as soon as we start the preparatory year, whether the arrangement as it is now foreseen is enough, or whether it should be more. The government doesn't start with scratch. The police and the D.A. are of course standing, very well-oiled organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u88	The Minister doesn't hear me grumbling about the police either. On the contrary, he has heard me the General Reviews. He heard me today. I bet on the powerful police there is, but who also needs maintenance. We all know it's tight with the police. We all know that if extra policemen are needed, they have to come from somewhere. That's where I care. If this experiment violates the existing corps, and given the value of those trading stocks, it's predictable that it's necessary, then my great concern is that this experiment swallows up police capacity that we desperately need in other places. I would be very sorry if, with the adoption of this bill, we could now prelude on the police capacity that is desperately needed in so many other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u89	We must be aware that, at the moment, there is also a need for police capacity as a result of this unclear policy of tolerance on the one hand and crime in production and delivery on the other. If we start writing the accounting enforcement balance together in that preparatory year, we will look at what additional police capacity it will generate, but also what it will save in other places in terms of police capacity, for example, because now I come back to it again, we say that every coffee shop in the municipality should participate. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs Bikker's point. If you got three coffeeshops out of town in Z, two on parole and another four on parole, it's not gonna work. It should also, of course, lead to other savings in the arrangements in these municipalities, especially in relation to cannabis enforcement. Even so, it may be that we find that we still need to add a little more. Then I fully understand Mrs Bikker's point that we have to be very careful not to make it any more difficult to use the word 'undermining' in other important tasks of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u90	The Minister now says: we have all the coffee shops in that arrangement, so that saves police capacity that would be involved. I would like to say the other way around that we also have new municipalities where hemp is grown. So there is also a new challenge for the police. We can't completely get rid of it. I very much entrust it to the Minister and to the Dutch police to calculate exactly the capacity needed to organise this properly, but I would not want to ask for a commitment on that point and a report from the Minister.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u91	I note that there is no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u92	I asked for a commitment. It is precisely this existing police capacity that should not be put under pressure. If you set up this enforcement arrangement with the police, you can, with your expertise, determine what remains of the police by starting this experiment. I immediately believe that there is also a synergy advantage and so on. But I would find it really indigestible if we gave the police, who are already under pressure, even more tasks on this point without showing how we organise it from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u93	I really cannot guarantee that there will not be any moments when there will be some extra pressure on that police capacity. This may be in the situation in the run-up to a moment when we conclude that an emergency brake must be applied to a municipality. We have to be very realistic about that. I did not quite understand it as a question at first, but I would like to emphasise once again very clearly that our efforts are very much aimed at ensuring that the enforcement arrangements relating to this experiment are not at the expense of the police. That is therefore a very active and far-reaching commitment, but I cannot give a result obligation to the police in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u94	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. Before he answers the questions about organised crime, I have another question about the cultivation communities. I had asked in my first term whether they would receive the same support in terms of expertise, enforcement capacity, communication path and legal assistance. That is what the ten municipalities that participate in the experiment get. The answer to a question by Mr Dittrich on safety was at least: yes, they can also be given to the cultivation communities. But the package is wider. So my question is whether it applies to the whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u95	Well, it will always be a different package, because a growing community is of course quite different from a municipality that will host coffeeshops that participate in the experiment. But the security aspects, the enforcement aspects and also the possible legal aspects that could play in a municipality play, a bit translated into that slightly different position of those municipalities, in the same way. So that's what we're definitely gonna make arrangements with them about. Look, a mayor of a coffeeshop community may need legal advice at some point, because there is a discussion with a coffeeshop owner about whether or not he wants to join. And that is a very different legal advice, a very different route from a growing community, where perhaps a neighbour objects to the fact that a greenhouse is used next to him for growing weed. I cannot say that one-on-one, but I hope it will be enough for your Chamber to say that we are going to make agreements on the same subject categories, including the cultivation communities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u96	Thank you. I had been in contact with a mayor of a suspected cultivation community, who was very afraid that this would get over the municipalities. But I hear you say that we do tailor-made work, but we are definitely discussing the needs of these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u97	Well, the needs of the weed experiment. Whatever else is going on in municipalities is separate from that. I come to the last, Mr Rombouts' motion. I would like to apologize to you, and to you, the other 74 Members, for the fact that I was somewhat detailed in my reply here and there. But that has a reason and that is that, although my portfolio contains a rather wide range of topics, I really see the approach to this serious undermining crime as a very important thing. Not even so much because of the high profitability or I know a lot, but simply because it is not for nothing called 'undermining': it is affecting our society. Mr Rombouts' speech, in the run-up to his motion, was taken from my heart. He knows that, and everyone who's been following my performance for the past two years knows that. This serious drug crime is a very important, nasty, negative factor in undermining our society. Production, trade and transit of drugs, on which I have given your Chamber some figures in an earlier debate on the enormous growth in the transit of cocaine and the like. It makes for very big criminal profits. It is precisely the vulnerable neighbourhoods in our country that suffer the negative consequences of this crime. That was also mentioned by Mr Rombouts. I also understand what he is saying about regions suffering from lucrative drug tourism to a number of major cities, including certainly the capital. Besides, I'm an Amsterdammer, which I've been most of my life. I will continue to do so, but I do take this criticism of regions suffering from it as ministers and as an Amsterdammer. That is why the cabinet has said: it must be roll-up, take it down to the last penny and prevent it. Otherwise, the comparison of the house with the back burning, we may be on the side extinguishing the kitchen and at the front entering a new fire, again recruited people from those vulnerable neighbourhoods. Youth from vulnerable groups or directions. That is why we are also investing 110 million a year, after the previous 100 million on an occasional basis and 10 million on a structural basis, for a speedy start to the broad offensive. I'm just telling those people who say, "What the hell is that?" And then I say, remember, that's on top of the 290 million structuralally in the police force, that's on top of extra money that's already been invested in tackling all kinds of cybercrime and the like, which is also used by these gangs. Now it is clear that 110 million will be added for this broad offensive, as it has been mentioned, against organised undermining crime. In any case, we have achieved the first part of strengthening the approach until early 2021. I sent a letter to the House of Representatives yesterday about that broad offensive, which I will also send to your Chamber. As far as I am concerned, Mr Rombouts' motion adds two essential elements. The first is that the motion states that it must be a long-term structural reinforcement. That is, of course, also a very clear reference to the occasional budgetary resources. He also says that it should also be aimed at preventing and countering standardisation, while in my opinion the word 'prevention' was mainly aimed at preventing new growth from reaching those gangs. For those of you who are wondering what I am talking about: I would like to invite the Committee of Justice to go to certain neighbourhoods in the Netherlands once, where youth work already takes care of boys of 8 in order to prevent them from gradually becoming couriers and slipping further and further. When I talk about prevention, I'm also talking about targeting people in society who have become vulnerable because their income is falling, because they have come into difficult private circumstances, which means that they, as officials of customs or something else, are succumbing to temptation at some point and so on. You have to be willing to design that prevention widely. But Mr Rombouts says that it must also be much more focused on prevention, combating standardisation. This is in line, I say, with what the Prime Minister said here in your Chamber exactly a week ago in the context of general political considerations. If Mr Rombouts agrees, I am happy to take over the motion and, at least in a brief letter, your Chamber will be sending a further confirmation on this subject, in which I will mention a number of points. I will come to your Chamber in the spring with a very comprehensive letter with a further elaboration of those plans. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u98	Those last words were taken from my heart, to quote the Minister. But perhaps just for the sake of clarity, the following. You take over the motion and you're going to make that Delta Plan. Of course, you're halfway through the offensive. I have used three concepts in my contribution. A Delta Plan is wider than the offensive. It's longer-year-old, it's going to have to be over several cabinet periods. And it will also have to be more structural, but also of resources. Will the Minister confirm that he intends to do the same? This question is about the nature of the plan. The next question is about content. I mentioned four elements in the motion: repression, prevention, resilience and appeal to industries. Once again: repression is reflected in your plans for the last few months. Reinforcement of detection and prosecution. Actually, we agree on that. This social resilience lies in the plans of the Mayor of Amsterdam and the Minister of Justice and Security. But he's going to need other departments to take action in the neighborhoods. Home Affairs, Social Affairs and Education. Does the Minister have anything to say about a third element I mentioned, so that I feel that the motion is really being taken over? That is to address the very sensitive sectors of industry for undermining: the car trade, the banks, the notaries, the organizers of dance festivals, the lawyers, the brokers, those who facilitate much towards undermining. Finally, prevention, discouragement. Sorry I was so tall, Madam President. Maybe you'll never get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u99	Weability of neighbourhoods is indeed a point, especially when it comes to the long-term vision, which is definitely part of it. That is why I am taking over that point. Sensitive industries and that responsibility are issues on which we, as a cabinet, have not so far placed a great deal of emphasis. I admit that once in an interview I raised the question of whether we should have 1,100 festivals in the Netherlands, if a large number of these festivals require police deployment to check if someone has taken two or three pills. Policemen themselves ask me what this really makes sense and b whether they have become policemen for that. Vulnerable groups...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u100	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u101	Let the Minister answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u102	I had focused mainly on vulnerable groups to prevent them from getting involved in crime. But I hear Mr Rombouts clearly say in his motion that you should also focus on those vulnerable groups when it comes to health risks and the other risks associated with drugs. I'll take over those four elements from the motion. There is one element in the motion that stands with a capital D. I ask you whether I can read the motion in such a way that it is not 'Deltaplan' but 'broader offensive', regardless of the fact that one of the Members has already mentioned the dilution of the concept of 'Deltaplan'. I would like to explain my request. Stanley H.'s gang was called the Delta Gang. It's my bad trait to know all unnecessary facts. I have said at some point in the run-up that I find 'Deltaplan' very unfortunate. That's why we called it "wide offensive." I now qualify it as "widest possible" offensive. I would like to underline the four points raised by Mr Rombouts. I said I wanted to take those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u103	What's in the name? I think that when we talk about a Delta Plan, we think not so much about that Stanley, but about Zeeland. I think we're at least aware that that's gonna take a long time and ask for a lot of bets and money, which you're gonna have to keep up for years. In that sense, I would not like to see my word "Deltaplan" surrendered so quickly. But perhaps the minister wants to turn it into a master plan or a broad offensive. Eventually, it's about what you're gonna do. One of the four elements, prevention, is on your fellow minister's plate. He has spoken very well about it this evening. I would like to say one more thing with the Minister, which could shorten the second term. He says: the cabinet hasn't talked so much about these sensitive industries. I'm a little freaked out by that. The Netherlands is a polder country. We're very good at getting in touch with industries. At the climate tables this happened in a good way. You may be able to argue about the results, but industry has been asked: what can you do yourself? You can sit on top of that. I have also suggested that a Delta Commissioner should do so if it is too much work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u104	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u105	The question is: in the Delta Plan, would you really like to pay substantial attention to the responsibility of those sectors that I mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u106	In this block-plan, as I have just said, I would like to take up the point of pointing out the responsibility of the industry approach that is needed. About the form in which I'm going to send you a letter in the spring. I would like to say to Mr Rombouts that we have recently had a townhall meeting with entrepreneurs, but also with business associations, to share each other's criticisms and shortcomings when it comes to undermining crime and so on. But on behalf of the cabinet, I would like to say quite frankly that this is a point that we have not yet given much attention to in that office plan, which is yet another plan. So I will at least take that over, because I see it as constructive criticism from your Chamber. Then I guess I'm really done with my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u107	Thank you. That brings us to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a surprise. I actually thought that my fellow Maiden Speaker was Mr Van Wely's turn, but apparently he doesn't want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u109	Members may waive a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u110	Okay. All right, then I would just like to pass on very briefly a number of commitments that both ministers have made and which are important for the D66 Group in this second term. I have heard Minister Bruins clearly say that young people in institutions are explicitly included in the Trimbos Institute's investigations. That was an important commitment for my group. I have heard that the ministers have answered questions from Mr De Boer of GroenLinks that any date is actually possible for the entry into force of the law and all side-effects. That is also important for my group, because we do not want to waste any time. We want the preparatory phase to enter into force as soon as possible. Internationally, the experiment is discussed openly and transparently. We know that we have good diplomats and good officials who can do that. The Minister himself is also involved in this. This is important because there can always be political veiling, including from the other countries. Politicians often want to act against something because they think this is interesting for a particular constituency. But it's very good that facts are going to be presented, like what the experiment involves. I welcome the announcements on the measures to be taken by the police and the Public Prosecutor against organized crime in order to abuse the experiment or put it in a bad light. I have also noted that cultivation communities are really explicitly involved, including in the context of enforcement. A word about the report by Mr Tops and Mr Tromp. I keep wanting to say "Trump," but it's "Trump." That was indeed an opinion document, which was published after the report, after there was a lot of public discussion about the content of the report. So what I am trying to say is that we should not ignore the views of these two gentlemen simply because they have said in an opinion document that, on the basis of the information they have found, they believe that the direction of legalisation should be taken. I am not saying that the D66 group is promoting it here, because I really want to limit it to the bill we are discussing about cannabis and the ten municipalities. I have also heard that we are looking at Utrecht's involvement in relation to the Committee of Inquiry. That is also a point that is important for the D66 Group. I welcome the commitment that supervisory actors should exchange and coordinate data and that they should consider how to monitor and enforce it in a very good way. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the motion by Mr Rombouts and others. I have the motion here. The motion is very broad; the word "cannabis" is not in it. This is not a critical point, but it is a view of society that focuses on organised crime in the area of hard drugs. This concerns the examples given by the Minister, such as cocaine trafficking. I've also heard Colombia fall. These are, of course, all worrying developments. I do not think there is anyone in the Chamber who is opposed to countering the undermining of the rule of law. I have heard that the Minister says on a number of points that he sees fit to do so and that he accepts it. I conclude my second term with a question to Mr Rombouts: may I assume, as the Minister takes over this motion, that you withdraw the motion and that the debate ends without a motion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u111	I suggest that Mr Rombouts raise that point when he has the floor. Or do you want to respond to it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u112	It might save some reflections on this motion by all the speakers when I say that adopting the motion by the Minister actually means that that motion is not off the table and that we do not have to withdraw it either. The motion is part of the debate, but next week we will no longer have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u113	This means that you withdraw the motion and that you consider the Minister's answers to be a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u114	Yes, you're right. I withdraw the motion, but it is part of the debate so far. The motion is in the Acts and the Minister knows what it means. We don't have to vote on it again next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u115	Since the motion-Rombouts c.s. (' point ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u116	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Dittrich's time is still running, but... Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. It has turned out to be a bit of a debate that I was hoping wouldn't be, but... In response to the maiden speeches, the Minister indicated that he was looking forward to further debates. I do, too, in the sense that I really like debates in which you row against the current, because that gives muscle. Until it turns out that the boat is chained to shore, because then I'll stop. Next time, I think, we will have another real debate. Mr. Chairman. I have some points. Let me start with Mr Rombouts' point before I forget. The Minister said that he took over the scope of the motion, which means that that motion is now off the table. But I would like to ask the Minister the following. If he comes with his letter, will he not confine himself to the four points mentioned by Mr Rombouts? As far as we are concerned, they are not exhaustive. The experiment on which we are going to vote, for example, will have to be a part, or can be a part, let me put it this way, of what the Minister comes up with. It does not just have to be an effect on the four points that have not been mentioned exhaustively by Mr Rombouts. Let me add that to that. I would like to ask the Minister for his assurance that it will be wider than that. Mr. Chairman. Let me say that I have noticed that the word "science" is being used rather selectively in this debate. For example, I have referred to the report of Knottnerus myself a number of times.Knottnerus I and II, I say just for the sake of convenience but I noticed that it was also going to play a role in the THC level. Well, that's where science is leading again. Mrs Bikker also asked: yes, but ethically, isn't that normal scientific? On the other hand, the Minister says: yes, at Knottnerus it is scientific, but it can also be done in a slightly different way. I simply note that it was a rather selective use of the word'science', apart from the Minister's 'rabbits'. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the experiment is a means and not a purpose. This also applies to legalization. If legalisation proves to be a means of achieving the good results, legalisation is not an end in itself, but a means. That is why I have just asked for the measures contained in the letter that the Minister is going to make, because legalization may simply be a good means. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. I thank the ministers. I look forward to further debates and the last response I have asked of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u117	Thank you. I call Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their comprehensive reply. I will not list what I am all pleased with, but I can largely agree with Mr Dittrich in that regard. I would like to make two very brief points in connection with the debate. One is an observation of the various input and discussions that have taken place. That is why I think it is a little too often that the approach to hard drugs and soft drugs is being treated in the same way. That is what I think it is called. I hear things like "the discussion tilts," in which all kinds of people are quoted who say it has to go the other way. I myself have the impression that this is not so much the case with dealing with soft drugs as with dealing with hard drugs, including ecstasy. I regret that it will all be thrown into one heap in this debate, because I think that will cloud the debate. In that respect, I will mention one point by Mr Grapperhaus which I was pleased with. He said: no, it is precisely this experiment and the possibility of getting out of the criminal sphere of the supply of soft drugs that is an approach to undermining crime. I think that's very important to put first. There was also a lot of talk about normalising the use of soft drugs. I think: if we were to start in a situation where there is no soft drug use, that would be the issue, but we are not in that situation. Soft drug use has been standardized. At least it's normal. It is available in coffee shops. It's used by humans. And in doing so, we need to look for a pragmatic solution: how can we design it as safely as possible, without inviting people to use it and ensuring that criminal activities are limited? I see that I have requested a minute too little, but I hope the chairman will forgive me. I would like to say a few words about the international aspect. I am reassured that the government will continue to monitor international developments and remain in contact with other countries engaged in forms of regulation and decriminalisation. But I also heard Minister Bruins say that he does not attach value to developments in the international context. I find that a little disappointing, because that suggests that no position is taken, in the sense that international regulation should allow for responsible decriminalisation and regulation or at least not block it. I hope, however, that the government will take a little more position in this than merely following developments, and I should like to say that I shall be very careful in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u119	Thank you. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the two rulers for their input and their response this evening, also to what I have put forward. On many points, I feel the passion to look for what is good for this country, for the health of its inhabitants and most of all for their safety. At the same time, I also have a number of concerns about this experiment. I think that the President had already made that clear during the first period. Let me begin by saying that the broad commitment to prevention has been taken from my heart. The essence must be, as far as I am concerned, and that is different from Mrs De Boer, that drug use is not normal, that it is harmful and that it has risks. I have heard the Minister clearly say that the stakes are that the use of soft drugs will not increase. I'll put a line on that. He understands that from my point of view I say: reducing the Minister's office would be much more beautiful and much better, especially if we were to focus on that health. Because the implicit message of this experiment must never be that soft drug use is a good thing. It has to be that we map the risks well and find building blocks for a better soft drug policy. That is why I like the fact that the cabinet is working hard with all those concerned. With Secretary of State Blokhuis, too, there is a strong commitment to this Prevention Agreement, even when it comes to smoking, because that has some real connotations with this policy. I also hope that the cabinet will move forward courageously in the next two years. I have heard the Minister say that he will follow developments in other countries and not just the developments in countries that we, or at least a majority of progressive Netherlands, have always welcomed as example states in which legalisation is already in place. I am also concerned about the side effects that we all may not have intended or had estimated differently. I am also concerned about the consumption of other forms of cannabis, such as drugs that are being drunk. What health risks do they pose? What are the consequences? Let's face it honestly. I hope the Minister will include this in the evaluation. For my group has one thing to say: this must not be the path towards standardization. I heard Mr Meijer talking about regulation. That's really something other than normalizing. From my point of view, I also really hope that we will be able to convey this to the outside world, both from the cabinet and from the Chamber. Anyway, everyone's got their own way of thinking about that. You saw this, for example, in terms of the THC content and the appreciation of Mr Knottnerus's opinion. I asked my questions because I see more and more articles, also internationally in really respected magazines, in which people write: the stronger the weed, the greater the chance of a psychosis. And if we do enter into an experiment in which people use weed, then we also have an ethical assessment of what that means for the experiment. Mr. Chairman. The Minister and I did not agree, but perhaps he still wants to reflect very lightly on this. If he changes his mind, he will meet at least one Member of Parliament who is happy and knows who he is! I also said in that regard that prevention is a good thing, and please: let there be no policy moratorium on all other actions in the field of soft drugs policy. I have heard these two rulers clearly say that there is no such thing. This cabinet continues to face the problems. I'm happy about that. I keep my concerns about police strength, but if I listen carefully to the minister, he will accurately map them, along with the police. There may be a problem in the lead time that police strength is falling somewhat, but I understand that the Minister is going to map this so that a Chamber can act on this point. Did I get that correctly? I heard the Minister clearly about the emergency button. In the view of both ministers, this is first and foremost the case where something goes wrong in a municipality, but there is also the possibility that the minister or his successor, if there are any developments that do not actually contribute to finding the building blocks, but which do have an impact on public health or safety, I understand that they must be substantial, and that follows from the law, or use the button. There is no emergency button for any circumstance, but there is one and the cabinet can use it. Mr President, you have already heard in the first place that I have great concerns about growing drug crime. As far as I am concerned, this experiment is not the mercy blow. Unfortunately, that takes much and much more. That is why I signed the Rombouts motion with great agreement. I believe that the broad plan, in which all these facets are well understood, has the means to do so and has the courage to do so for a long time, an important one for society as a whole. I would like to thank the Minister for his generous commitment on this point, to take over this and to implement it in broad terms, both in terms of prevention, resilience and repression, structural and long-term. I'm sure I'll ask you a few questions. That is what we hear the Minister about, but I really want us to work together to ensure that this country becomes a healthy country and that young people learn to deal with soft drugs again. The moment the government launches this experiment, we must make it clear: the use of soft drugs remains wrong, do not start. I am different from some of the other speakers, but I would have liked to have said that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u121	Thank you. I call Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u122	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. We indicated this morning that we do not want to vote in favour of this bill, because in our opinion the spirit of time requires more, much more. I thank you and my fellow Members for giving me the opportunity to extend this debate beyond the means of experimentation. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security, but I really hope that this will apply to both ministers, namely that they will wholeheartedly accept the motion on the delta plan, in full width, with those four aspects, without excluding the aspects that others may wish to suggest. I am now going to discuss with my group what this means for our final assessment of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u123	Thank you. I call Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u124	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I may not be satisfied with every answer, but there is an intrinsic motivation to work on this subject, to tackle the back door problem and then to tackle the broader, undermining crime. There may have been little movement in the answers compared to the written change, but in terms of the extent of the experiment I noticed that there was something more generous about the position of the G4 and Utrecht than in the written change. I wrote that down for myself. I can tell you that the ministers have to do with the political containment of the coalition agreement when it comes to the extent of the experiment and the follow-up in the sense of: what happens after the experiment? The rulers always fall back on those texts. I said before: we are not bound by the coalition agreement here, but the VVD feels bound by it. I couldn't take that back in every contribution today. There is still a lot to figure out after the regulation. I think it is important what I said at the beginning: show partnership to the participating municipalities and to the participating coffeeshop holders if they encounter problems in the area of supervision and enforcement. The police force has been mentioned. I mentioned the trading stock. Let's pick that up together. I have the feeling that this feeling is present to everyone. Then there's the motion. It was my maiden speech, so I have a lot to learn, but I've noted some wonders today. The motion has nothing to do with the subject. The motion was granted in first time because it was requested, so that other Members could respond to it in second time. Before other members could respond to it in the second term, the Minister responded. Then the motion was taken over and withdrawn, so what shall I say about the motion, except that, of course, there are a lot of good things in it. As far as decision-making is concerned, I find it a little sloppy. I'll keep a sharper eye on it from now on. I also think it is a little sloppy towards the House of Representatives, which is going to debate this issue twice in the next few weeks with the Minister and is then confronted with a commitment in the First Chamber that structural multiannual money is available for a broad offensive, but perhaps not, because the rulers still have a term, and that has to be weighed against other points. I think that's the primacy of the Second and not of the First Chamber. That is what I wanted to say about the motion, with all due respect to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u125	Thank you. I call Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u126	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answers, which were satisfactory in almost all respects. There are always drugs in the Netherlands, always, no matter what we do, no matter what we say here. The Dutch tradition is then to look for a solution to regulate the harmful effects of these drugs as well as possible, in order to keep them as small as possible. It's looking for the optimal form and it's different per drug. We do this differently for alcohol, different for nicotine, different for heroin, different for xtc and therefore also different for cannabis. After all, there is a major problem with the sale of cannabis at the moment and actually for decades. I am pleased that this experiment is in line with the pragmatic solution we have here for the different types of drugs. We are continuing a tradition. The experiment, as we have seen in the endless written documents, is well thought out and detailed in some parts. I am also convinced that the participating municipalities and the growing communities will face surprises that will be resolved again. Sometimes I find it a little naive, too, I have to be honest. Those scooters just keep driving, even in the ten municipalities, but what is well investigated in the experiment, and that is the core of my group, is how you organize the legal, closed chain from seed to end product in the field of cannabis. We very much like to look at the results of the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u127	Thank you. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u128	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I have already made it clear that we are not going to support the legislative proposal. The bill takes a step towards normalising drug use, and this is not the responsibility of the SGP Group, not for hard drugs and not for soft drugs. Colleague De Boer I strongly recommend to dive into Jellinek's website. Then you'll soon find out why a hard separation between soft and hard drugs isn't the way she just did. We do not believe that with a very harsh enforcement we can solve the drug-related problem. At that point, I am a realist: like Minister Grapperhaus, I believe in original sin. I also have no need to put the SGP in a very tough position as a law-and-order party, because we are not buying anything for that either. Then what's the reason? We simply find it unacceptable to expose people, young or old, to drugs. In no way can a government accept this. On the contrary, a government that seeks the good for its citizens will go to extremes to curb drug trafficking and drug use. Therefore, regulation or legalisation of these resources is not acceptable to us because it promotes standardisation. The same goes for an experiment with that. It does not happen so often that the SGP calls on the government to follow the spirit of time, but it is precisely at this point that I feel that there is a shift in society towards tolerance towards drugs. The government's proposal is contrary to this, and that is not good. I would add that I find it really impossible for this experiment to lead to further deterioration of the scarce police capacity. If that cannot be ruled out, that should be enough reason not to start this experiment. Finally, to conclude positively: thank you for the commitment to continue to involve the organisation Brave Mothers in the experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u129	A few more questions have been asked. The question to the rulers is whether they are able to answer immediately. That's the case. I give the floor to Minister Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u130	Thank you. Thank you for today's debate. You know: it's always a bit more about the broad lines here than on the other side, but you're still curious which broad lines then jump out on such a day. It is interesting and also educational and it gives us the opportunity to place our own emphasis. In my first term, I have done so particularly in the area of prevention, because I think it is very important to emphasise this in this experiment. Two more questions were asked to me. One came from Mrs De Boer about continuing to monitor the international aspect and actively participating in the international debate on the experiment. Ms De Boer was a bit disappointed that I would not like to give a value assessment of developments in the international context. Maybe it's time we distinguished ourselves. I think it is important that we monitor developments in other countries during the experiment. That is what we have done, for example, with the experiences from Canada. If we can learn something from that, in this case on the way of packaging, I think we can use that kind of experience. With this you also immediately express a value judgment on some aspects, but not for all. I believe that the duration of the experiment is necessary to measure the effects now and to draw the political conclusion at the end of it. I would like to say to Mrs Bikker that the broad approach to prevention is indeed important. As far as these international effects are concerned, I want to map not only the upswing, but also the health consequences and unintended side effects. It's really about one thing at a time. Mrs Bikker asked to take a look at that THC level. I am not going to go any further than what I said in the first term. The scientific data on the effects and the risk of that THC content are not unambiguous. I tried to stress in the first term that, if there is a clear understanding of science, there is a hook through the AMvB to set a limit to the THC value. At the same time, I said: I honestly do not expect, in view of the discussions that I have had on this subject during the remainder of the period, that we will see so soon that this discussion will be concluded at that point, about capping, the maximum limit of that THC value. So I've been careful about that. The fact remains that the hook is in the AMvB. Mr President, thank you for the debate. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u131	Thank you, Mr Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u132	Mr. Chairman. I wrote down three questions. On Mr Janssen's question, I can promise that the letter sent in the spring will be broader than the points contained in the motion taken over. Let me give you the example of security and surveillance. I'll turn that off. That really is a point that affects our rule of law very much. The fact that we are now heavily guarded by prosecutors, judges and lawyers is something that is unheard of in my 35-year professional life in the rule of law. Mrs De Boer's question centred on tackling hard drugs and soft drugs and asked whether this would not be treated in the same way. I explained in my introduction, and I have come back to that a few times, that on the production and supply side are mainly those undermining serious criminals. In this respect, I would like to say to those of you who said 'yes, this has to do side by side with this subject and with the Rombouts motion'. It is, of course, precisely at that point, as has been said, linked to this undermining crime. I shall now come to the final point. Mr Meijer has rightly pointed out that the House of Representatives has the primacy of course when it comes to discussing budgetary law. I didn't want to suggest in any way that that broader offensive, that Deltaplan that I come up with, included structural money. Let us be very clear: this will not be discussed until spring. But I will also have written that to the House of Representatives, and I am going to extend that to the motion for a resolution, which is exactly what the broad offensive that we as a society need to deal with in the long term is. It is absolutely correct what Mr Meijer says: how it is then dealt with is primarily at the House of Representatives. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-11.u134	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. We shall then vote on it next week.
