ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue to deal with the budget of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Last year and the year before, my contribution to the Justice budget was focused on victim protection, and so on now. Fortunately, the cabinet feels the same way about the importance, hence also their vision "to do justice to victims." Unfortunately, the practice often shows a different way, as it turned out at a round table, in which it became clear that victims are still really lacking in criminal proceedings: there is too little attention for them. We are very concerned about that. We were totally shocked when we read that the cabinet was planning to do so. We had so nicely rigged it up with each other to suddenly take down the advance for victims in a legislative proposal. We also call that "the blimp." The chairman of Victim Aid Netherlands also raised the alarm about this. I know that we are going to deal with all these laws, but I really want to hear from the cabinet today that this advance payment is not being abolished and that it is not a case of a separate penal chamber going to look at those compensations, and then suddenly that assistance to victims is being removed. That is an important point for us. Victims occur in different degrees and in different forms, including victims of injury. That is a point that is very important to us. We are not alone in that. We have been working on it for a very long time, together with Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party and Mr Van Nispen of the SP. We have paid attention to this a number of times. What is the case? If you become a victim of, for example, a terrible accident, you're actually a little dependent on how the other side's insurance company is going to stand up for you. Unfortunately, our experience is that that is very often pitiful. We therefore have today a note to offer to the Chamber. Mr Van Nispen now presents that note to the Chamber through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u4	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u5	After all, we have come up with a way of dealing with a number of issues. What is it about? We have seen that insurers and lobbyists have often imposed certain rules of conduct on them. There is even a genuine code of conduct for insurers, but yes, they do not comply with it. Eventually, no one can hold them to that either, because it is totally unenforceable. We find that really unacceptable. People have nowhere to go. They can't go to a disciplinary court either, because there isn't one. These are all things that we say: shouldn't that change very quickly? Therefore, this note, to make sure that there are really a few things going differently. We always have short speaking time, so this was our trick of the day, because we really want to discuss it in detail. We know the Cabinet is conducting an investigation, but how independent is this? There are questions about that. We want to give a little more direction to where it is going, and this is very important to us. Therefore, this note, which we are offering to the Chamber today. We are already suggesting how victims can be treated better. We are also very concerned about the protection of privacy. We see that the data of victims and relatives in the media are sometimes widely measured. Then we're talking about Robert M., but then there might be victims. By the way, this is not the best example, because all the children who were victims in that case have received a number; but we see that all too often differently. About the case of Nicole van den Hurk, a cold case, in which a journalist had walked along, a book finally appeared. The next of kin had to go to court to get certain aspects out of it. We are very concerned about that. That is why Mrs Kuik and I wanted to put that on the agenda today; that will take shape in a "spoken" motion - a serious analysis by the Dutch Data Protection Authority: how do we improve victim protection in criminal law, how do we ensure that their privacy actually gets a place? I'd like to make a motion later to pronounce that. Mr. Chairman. Last week we talked about undermining. A number of important issues were raised at the time. I can largely endorse what my colleague in the VVD has said about this. Our commitment to making the money structural is equally fanatical and we think the same about information sharing. It is very important, I think, that we take some serious steps in that regard. The first steps have been taken by this cabinet. I had already said that we went to Palermo. I found it very refreshing to see how they deal with it there. It was also rather worrying: a mayor has been trying for 35 years to solve this problem. He succeeds well, but we will have to have a long time here with each other. What is particularly important is that they said there: you have to take it away and then give it back to society through a construction; you shouldn't just give it back a little bit, but really make it an organisation. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet to pick that up. We also talked in the AO about small municipalities that struggle very much with the approach of undermining. Mayor Depla has made a note at the request of the Home Office. Actually, I'd like a reaction to that. I also hear that municipalities are asking for a place where they can go. Couldn't that be the center for undermining that the Strategic Council is asking for? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr President, then drugs. I'll come back to that every time. A number of points are of great concern to us. We are told by the police that when drugs are sold to minors, they have not actually turned around or those who have sold drugs are already on the streets. With the guidelines and agreements we have on this subject, I thought that people were actually being hung up for a while and then went out again. So it's not. Insurance looks like a paper tiger. I would like to hear from the cabinet what it is going to do to prevent young people from being exposed to drugs. I want to hear that if someone makes it into their brains to sell drugs to a minor, they're going to have a serious time behind them. I think that's what needs to be done. Sometimes municipalities are very inventive to tackle drug use. So is Glaner Bridge. One day we pointed that out. In Glanerbrug it has been said: it is actually a bit of a schizophrenic policy; so you can apparently have drugs but not use them. They said: we are going to take a step in that for once; we are actually going to punish people who are using drugs, who are carrying drugs and then using them. That's also in the general police regulation. I think this is a good solution and I would like to hear from the cabinet how it will help other municipalities. If there's any major nuisance, we need to try and solve it. Drugs is actually the central issue when it comes to undermining. The Mayor of Rotterdam has also said something about this in recent days. We were recently in Rotterdam at an interesting conference. The Minister of Justice and Security was there, too. He's also heard how hard it is sometimes to get witness statements. The exhalers need to be tackled much more firmly, but what do we see: the people who eventually pick up those exhalers are called the rowers who see it happening, dare not actually indicate what is going on. Shouldn't we be doing something more with Witness Protection? My colleague Chris van Dam is already doing a lot of work on that. I ask the cabinet: should we not see how we can strengthen it even more with some sort of experimental article? I also heard that when a truck drives off the grounds, because of its privacy they are not allowed to look behind the curtain where the driver sleeps. Yeah, so you can hide everything when you're riding off a property like that. That can't be true! I heard the mayor from Rotterdam went to Colombia. Again, we were in Palermo. What turned out to be very important there is that prosecutors are at work in the Netherlands. They are actually our extended arm in Italy. Can't we do the same thing in Colombia? Is there anything like that? I didn't recognize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u6	I'm just coming over to the interrupting microphone. So don't be afraid. We have been to Colombia. They have a liaison. They've got one now and there's a second, and then a half with a little luck. I support this. There is a need for liaisons in more places in these kinds of countries. Is there going to be a concrete proposal, perhaps with some finances? We wholeheartedly support this, also on the basis of the experience we have gained as a chamber committee that has been to Colombia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u7	I understand that the form chosen in Colombia differs from what is happening in Italy. In Italy they are more focused on organisations that are active there and here. I understood that there is some light between the way Colombia does it and the way the Netherlands does it. I also hear, for example, that certain loads are always being filmed in Colombia, but that no one is watching those images, not even the prosecutors there. And if those images can go to the Netherlands via those officers, then you really make it a firmer relationship. So there's something there, maybe it's bigger than I realized, but what I've heard here is that it's not the same as in Italy and that there's a tooth to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u8	Please continue. Oh, Mrs. Chicken has another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u9	It's not so much that they don't want the same thing. The problem in Colombia was that they see a lot more, that they have a lot of drug networks in sight and can also potentially stop catches, but that there are no hands, that there is no manpower to actually detect them. So basically it's the same approach, but there's just a lack of human power to go on with it. I am not talking about the Colombian Government, which sometimes and sometimes does not cooperate. But most of all, it's the fact that more people are just needed to do it. That is why I repeat my appeal: if we take this very seriously, let us see how we can give it hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u10	Fine. Fortunately, this cabinet has now invested even more money in countering undermining. If a solution could be to give more resources to that, please. Because in the end, this is what's at stake. If you don't get those drugs to the Netherlands, you'll also see that these drug organizations have less to do with each other. And maybe we'll have less crime. So in the end, that's a little preemptive working through our D.A.'s office. We have already talked extensively about terrorism in an AO, so even if it is one of the most important issues, we have dealt with it extensively and we have received written answers. For the rest, I would like to endorse the comments made by my colleague in the VVD, except as regards the withdrawal of international treaties. I am very curious how things will end with the trial of the women who have come to the Netherlands. Then there is another very important item on the agenda, namely the area of Asylum and Migration. Maybe some people have heard about that this morning. I can never light my hair as beautiful as they can at WNL, so I enjoy that all day long. But I did get to say a few things there. I tried to explain there that I see the cabinet very eagerly organizing that asylum chain. We'll make sure we get common facilities. People who are competitive and people who have less chance, we try to distinguish between them. People with a high chance will be guided through the regions as soon as possible to integrate quickly, quickly to ensure that they are taught the language. And the people who don't stand a chance have to leave the country eventually. That's the thought. Not everyone can get out of the country right away. Lots of trouble. This cabinet wants to ensure that these people are given more help, even with the rural facilities. I also see the need for more agreements with countries of origin. When I was in Italy with Mr Jeroen van Wijngaarden and other colleagues, we were not only in Palermo, but also at Lampedusa. We have seen that there are very clear similarities, for example, between Italy and Tunisia. We hear there are many more bilateral contracts. I actually want us to get a better idea of who has a contract with through Europe. How are we gonna organize that? An important point. But even if you have contracts or agreements with certain countries, there's always people who don't cooperate. Then the cabinet wants to call in the IOM to help even better, to get people back. All fantastic, but at the end of the day it is still so that it is all voluntary. The report by the Van Zwol committee shows that anyone who wants to go back can finally get back. Then I think that the situation that has arisen at the moment is that we, really, do everything to facilitate someone's return, but that we end up stuck with a couple of guys who ruin it for everyone. They're ruining it for everyone by not leaving. Then they're gonna crack, they're gonna cause trouble, and they're gonna keep going. Then I stand here as a CDA with an image of where we should go in the future: I think we should create a situation in which we actually make non-co-work on departure a criminal offence. In doing so, we give people an additional motivation to accept everything this government offers them to eventually leave. I think that is very important and I realise that it is complicated to do so during this cabinet period. Maybe I'm just saying it quite honestly because we think differently about it. But let this clearly be a dot on the horizon that we as CDA support. How does the Secretary of State look at that now? Is it not very real to say that we offer almost everything to people who come here, even to people who come from safe countries? Look at those buses from Moldova. It may not be recognised as a safe country, because that is the subject of discussion, but we know that these people cannot claim our protection. Shouldn't we say to these people: you made a mistake coming here, perhaps with human traffickers or smugglers or whatever else they are, and now you're going back? We're even gonna help you. We'd even like to give you something to watch you build something back there. But if someone doesn't do anything at all and we also have a reason to put someone in jail, shouldn't you say, if you have them: if you don't cooperate now, will it become a criminal offence? We must make it as unattractive as possible to come to the Netherlands. We see, for example, that Sweden is making asylum seekers who are no longer allowed to stay increasingly difficult, and so fewer people are going to Sweden. Mr. Chairman. At Lampedusa, we found it quite unheard of to hear that they are now aware that there are even "no cure, no pay" situations with smugglers. You can try it three times, and if you get caught the third time, you're such a douchebag that you're gonna figure it out yourself. That's what they think in that world! People just pay for multiple attempts. Then I really think: then is the time there to think seriously about criminalisation. Finally, Mr President. We can try to solve something for communities that are really suffering from the influx of, in particular, economic migrants. They come with boats. Luckily, those boats are being impounded. On Lampedusa, we have some kind of wrecking field that you're thinking, "How is that possible?" We saw a steel boat lying there. It costs the local community four tons to dismantle that boat. As an international community, we really need to think about how we can support those local communities a little bit more in order to get rid of those wrecks, that those boats lying there are being dismantled. We really need to make sure that they can no longer be used. We must also ensure that the fishermen who work there still have a life. If the Navy has to sail, they should not first almost stumble over the wreckage left by the human smugglers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mr Emiel van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u12	I like it all and I like Mrs Van Toorenburg's input. Wasn't it the CDA who's responsible for this whole mess we're seeing coming at us? I call the buses with loads of Moldovans that they apparently want to put money into sending them back. I also mention all the illegal aliens we can't get out of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u13	I am absolutely happy that Mr Van Dijk says that it is a nice and nice input. That's the profit of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u14	It wasn't a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u15	Let's be. I have once again listened with some surprise to the input of the PVV today. We can say nothing more: no one is allowed to go to the Netherlands and we have to cancel everything, but that is not how it works. I am referring to other countries where governments might have called out a little more louder. Eventually, the influx hasn't diminished at all. It all sounds fun and it all sounds interesting to the audience, but eventually you don't dent in a pack of butter with your plans. In the end, we have to make sure that something really happens, and that is what this cabinet is doing. It's more than just yelling from the sidelines. It's actually trying to accomplish something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u16	If you'd back it up for once, it'd make a difference. But so far, you haven't come up with anything. Everything we've proposed has been rejected by you. Next time please: put your money where your mouth is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u17	I'm always laughing when the PVV says we have to raise boundaries. I lived in Limburg and now I live in Brabant. There I sometimes make beautiful walks over the moors. Next thing I know, I'm in Belgium. I only know that because my phone tells me that I arrived in Belgium. Then think, "Yeah, guys, we can be tough around here and say we're building boundaries, but they're talkers. That's not gonna do us any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u18	I think we're very sorry about the undermining part. I have a question about yesterday's broadcast where Mrs Van Toorenburg, together with the Christian Union, at EenVandaag, advocated maintaining the ban on the use of pills at festivals. She wants to bet on that. I think that Mrs Van Toorenburg, like myself, has had quite a few emails from many entrepreneurs and agents: it sounds nice, you shouldn't do it if you can't, but is this really focusing on the problem and where do we get the capacity from? How does Mrs Van Toorenburg view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u19	I often get wonderful invitations from all kinds of festivals. Many youngsters are jealous of the fact that I can go anywhere, including behind the scenes. I'll talk to the police about that. They're organizing laundromats there to guide people through. What's their great frustration? If people only have one pill on them, they have to say, "You can't have it," but keep walking. That's really something the police themselves say: we're in a mess here. We have a country where hard drugs are banned. The possession of hard drugs is forbidden, but we only take them and do not yet impose a fine. That's why I liked it so much that a community says it's all over the shoes there. They're already maintaining it anyway. All this trouble is already on the street. Then also give the police the power to actually pass fines if people have drugs on them to use themselves. I'm not saying that every agent in the Netherlands... Then Mr. Chris van Dam gets all mad at me. You may be tough sometimes, but then you don't know Mr. Chris van Dam when I'm gonna tell the police to do more things. However, if they are already present and tell me that they hate that they cannot perform, then I want to give them something extra in their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u20	I've been there a lot of times and I've seen it. I would like to invite Mrs Van Toorenburg to look at what entrepreneurs have sent us now, really a few minutes after yesterday's broadcast. And I'd like to invite her to look into what agents sent us. They say, boys, let's not shift that focus now to people who take a pill at a festival. Let's focus on those drug lords, on the fact that entrepreneurs can't share the information, on the fact that we can't help each other catch those big criminals. I also said to those people who take a pill at a festival: take responsibility, because your demand also maintains an offer. So I get the call, but let's not shift the focus from the drug lords to the festivalgoers. I'd like to send the e-mails I'm talking about to Mrs Van Toorenburg. This has caused a lot of unrest in people who say, "Boys, we gotta get those big bosses." They say: Surely that focus will not shift? I therefore hope that Mrs Van Toorenburg does not want to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u21	The more unrest, the better! Really: the more unrest, the better. I see that we live here in a country where we are all beginning to think that drug use is normal. So every day we can have this debate is profit. But it's true that we don't have to or-or do it. It has to en-and. On the one hand, we need to make sure that we share information. I am glad that this is finally settled by this cabinet, after eight years of drawing on it. We finally have a serious plan at the Council of State that we can deal with in this way, in order to be able to share the information effectively. That must be done. We need to help entrepreneurs. They've written us a report that says they need all that support. But I also think that we should not look away from the fact that individuals can just walk through a police car wash smiling because they only have one pill. And, yeah right, in this country, where everything is allowed, apparently so is it. Well, what the CDA doesn't, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to raise three points: firstly, the enforcement deficit, secondly, the police budget and its structure, and thirdly, culture or the situation in the Ministry of Justice and Security. I'm gonna start with the first one. The Annual Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year 2018 states that 28,000 cases with an investigative indication, i.e. cases where the principal provides information that could lead to an investigation, have not been picked up. On balance, they have been dismissed. I do not expect that to change substantially in 2019. Recently I got an e-mail from someone I know. He wrote, "Chris, I know you're busy, but I still have a question for you. My son was beaten up just before the summer by two known neighborhood boys. We went straight to the GP for stitches, among other things. After that, we filed a report. Two weeks ago, I called the police because we hadn't heard anything. I was told they're too busy with other, even more important things. My son has trouble sleeping. He's afraid those guys will come to see him again. What do you think, these unsubs are just gonna run away?" Mr. Chairman. Are such comments critical of policemen or prosecutors for not picking up these cases? No, we know how dedicated people are. Is it critical of the cabinet, of these ministers? No, it is precisely in this cabinet period that investments are being made for the first time in years in the police, prosecutors and the judiciary. As I said in the previous budget debate, our rule of law should ultimately be an umbrella in the hands of citizens, a shield for individual people such as yourself and myself. I note that this is not the case in a number of cases. So we're investing in this cabinet period. But can I give you an example of what has happened in recent years? There have been 140 million cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office in recent years and 100 million have come back for them in recent years. But that was all money for specific tasks: terror, money laundering, undermining, cybercrime, vice. So it is money with a label, but also money focused on a specific target. This means that there have been huge cuts on the base, on officers who have to deal with "ordinary" crime. This is no different with the police, it is no different with the case law and that is no different with all kinds of organisations. The enormous tension in the base teams of the police can be explained by this. Mr. Chairman. What's that got to do with me? Two things. Soon we're all gonna trump each other again with our election programs. Safety is always a popular subject. Everyone will want to invest heavily again. But what's the real point? Is the Cabinet prepared to examine the main elements of the enforcement chain. I am thinking of police, justice, justice, DJI and related organisations. What capacity will be needed in the coming years? I am not thinking of a vision of one cabinet period, but I am talking about a longer period of time, say until 2030. Because one of the main criticisms of these organisations is that we are rather erratic as politics in allocating or taking away budgets. More and more tasks have been created in recent years. I'm just thinking about cybersecurity. It will take enormous efforts to keep our country safe in the cyber field as well. Where does that capacity come from? At the expense of what tasks? How much extra money will that take in the coming years? So I ask for a task and capacity analysis that makes it clear how much capacity is really needed in the chain over the next few years. I hope that this analysis will be carried out before the next summer, so that we can also take our programmes into account. Mr. Chairman. A second point on this point... But maybe I should...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u24	Maybe just finish this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u25	Yeah, I'll finish this. A second point in terms of tasks is the task of the police. We expect a lot from the police in the near future and we know how it squeaks and cracks there. I want to make a move in that. I think we should see how we can invest certain tasks of the police elsewhere. I'd like to start small with that. I myself have resigned from my previous hesitation to give boas certain work. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to experiment in the area of traffic control, to give more boas a job there. We now know that boas are allowed to sign moving or still cars and just the other way around the still and moving not. That is a situation that is unnecessary and where, in fact, police work can be taken away. Those are my two requests on this point. I'll hold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u26	It is right for Mr Van Dam to explain how much has been saved by the VVD in the previous period and that we are now faced with an enforcement deficit. It is also right that Mr Van Dam should ask for a task discussion and it is right that he should ask for an investigation, although I hope that this investigation will not lead us to say: that is enough for this cabinet period, because we are almost there. I really hope that Mr Van Dam will say: the current occasional investments will have to become structural. We have received a letter from the joint police unions with a new cry for help; none of that lies about it. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. In the context of the task debate which Mr Van Dam is right to start, what should the police do and what should we expect from them? I should like to respond to Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal, which actually says: a festival user with a single pill must now be punished by the police. 'Cause it wasn't like the police said about the festival users, 'we're fucked up. No, the police are literally saying that Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal is absolutely unacceptable to policemen. We can barely catch the big bad guys, you're putting the police's trust on the line. That was the police response. Now I would like to hear a response from Mr Van Dam. So, by the way, very valid points, but I would like to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr Van Dam is from the same group as Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u28	Yeah, and he didn't go to WNL this morning to light his hair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u29	But you're looking pretty good, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u30	Yeah, is it okay? That's nice. Mr Van Nispen asks two questions. First of all, the question of whether this means a glimpse of whether, in the short term, we should leave the undermining teams and things like that for a moment, and that we should bring forward other investments, which may be necessary in the interim and which are quite rightly requested by society. No, it's not. When it comes to undermining, you have heard my colleague Van Toorenburg say all kinds of things. We wholeheartedly support all efforts in this area. It's now a movement that's being deployed and it can't be that if you help a team like that, in a while, it'll say, "Thank you, see you, that's it." That can't be the case. No, this really is a long-term story and also intended to prevent the wind blowing like this, including in the criminal justice chain. We can't do that to those people anymore. I do not think we can do it to them that we make the functioning of their organisations an election item. Of course, it will be an election item, but I'd like it to be based on facts, hard stuff. If we all call for a billion more policemen, can you train them? What is the training capacity? To what extent does it determine what you can grow in the coming time? These organizations are so valuable to me that I really want to use that movement in a structural way, hopefully with the support of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u32	Another point by Mr Van Nispen, about the maintenance. You've just heard my colleague say she had a fight with me in the first place. We want to move and that is: how do we look at the enforcement of rules? Of course, you have to put everything in its historical context, but I very much agree with my colleague, Mr Van Toorenburg, that we should seriously ask ourselves whether, if we have a law that says that drugs are prohibited, we should have the situation that everyone can have a certain amount of them. That could come from a time when maybe there was something to say for tolerance. But the serious question can be asked whether, now that it is so widespread, we should not break with it. This applies not only to drugs but also, for example, to traffic enforcement, to everything. In the past, in this country "your maintiendrai" was the slogan, "I will maintain," and now we have something like "I will look through my fingers." That's pretty much the slogan. I do not know exactly how to translate this into French, but I do know that such principles are always at the expense of the weakest in society. We certainly need to have a debate on this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u33	Briefly, Chairman, and thank you for the opportunity to interrupt. I have heard Mr Van Dam say: the functioning of organisations, he meant the police, we should not engage in election campaigns. Then he talked about the 100 billion-dollar plan for the police and he asked, "Who's going to train it?" That's just our election programme, that's what we're talking about. I find it a little faint that this is a bit morally wrapped up as if the CDA is superior to my group with its views on the police. We're being blamed for stomping feet, just like the tone. I like to stick to the content. Then do it in an interruption with me or my colleagues. I'm the spokesperson here, so it would be nice for me. But don't hide it like that. I think that's very cowardly. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, I'm thinking, if the shoe fits, put it on. But sometimes you also put down a shoe that is attracted by someone you didn't know was meant for him or her in advance. So I'm just gonna go back to my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u36	My second point is the police budget. I want the budget adjusted on the police front. Now there's one rule: there's over 6 billion going to the police. I would like that rule to be specified in the budget. The Minister is politically responsible for the management of the police and we as a parliament carry out democratic control of this. In a society like ours, democratic police control, especially the only government organisation allowed to apply violence, is a basic rule. The police themselves should be pleased with it and is also pleased, I think, because we are going to have a structural discussion about the means and try to get away from the incidents. At the moment, there is not much to read about the police in the budget. That is in the separate budget that is included. Now we cannot amend, but we must do something about motions. I've been calling that hammering with a saw for a long time. The Court of Auditors has been insisting on this for years, and the Council of State has advised on this at my request. This has led to a positive opinion in my view. The Minister has recently sent a letter to the Chamber stating that he does not intend, on balance, to follow this opinion and, at most, to make the budget more informative. But that does not, as far as I am concerned, reflect the role that we have as a chamber. I was going to table an amendment. This weekend I sat with my calculator to carry out endless calculations to fit an organization that has a benefit-cost system into JenV's budget and I thought: if I continue to do so, I don't know if I will make the world a better place. So that's why I'm not going to table an amendment. However, I do intend, should the Minister, which I think would be very consistent, to continue to make a motion on this matter, as he has said in the letter to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the Ministry's control. Recently, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber about the search for documents in connection with the criminal case against Mr Wilders. I read in it that the Minister has hired two external agencies: one agency to check if there are any forgotten documents, and the other agency to check if the first agency is doing its job properly. I understand the Minister is doing and must do this. On the one hand, therefore, there is the Chamber that responds to every incident in the media with a parliamentary question or a parliamentary debate request. On the other hand, the Minister has to do with a ministry and an official organisation on which he cannot always rely. Think of the WODC case, the Poch case, the resignation of Secretary of State Harbers, the previous ticket affair and other imaginative matters. You would want justice and security to be a beacon of calm and solidity, a place where "a man a man, a word a word" applies. This does not always seem to be the case. I'm really worried about that situation. This also affects the doctrine of ministerial responsibility. It is based on the premise that the Minister can adequately inform the Chamber when he is called to account. If that feeling disappears, fortunately, we are not yet at all. We have a big problem with each other. But in a broader sense there is a problem within the column JenV. What about the management culture within the Public Prosecutor's Office? Soon we will be talking about the report by Mr Fokkens. When you read that report, you wonder how that was possible. It also messes with justice. The chief of police is communicating with the minister through the newspaper these days. What about the inclusion and discrimination debate within the police? We're gonna talk about that in the Chamber soon. I believe that this is above all a leadership issue, with potentially disastrous consequences. Mr. Chairman. There are good initiatives. There are good people. There are a lot of good people in that ministry. I regularly see in a newspaper that the whole problem is hanged by one official and that it is assumed that it will be resolved once it has left. I really think that's a bullshit discussion. There is a lot of good will, but we also see a lot of fear, mistrust and incidents. There's not enough openness. I don't think this can go on like this. If we do not do something about it substantially, this will affect every next member of the government in this ministry, whatever his or her political colour is. Is it not time for a reset, a trend break, a change, not to mention the role of the Chamber and Members of Parliament? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. How does he intend to deal with this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u38	In a rule of law, everyone has the right to rights. The government must be there for you if you need it, for example, if you are a victim of a crime, or if you have a conflict and you need to be able to get justice. But we see how people are treated. Look at the people in Groningen who have to fight for their homes and for safety. Look at the victims of the child support scandal. All this has little to do with justice. People's interests are often out of the picture, often because it's money-leading. Not what is needed in our rule of law is leading, but our budgetary frameworks are determining. Too often I see the mentality of an accountant instead of a Minister of Justice or a Minister of Legal Protection. Mr. Chairman. My first question is addressed to the Minister of Justice and Security. It's a multi-choice question. What's he most upset about? Is that a) the state of the police and the rest of the criminal justice chain that the VVD has cut so hard that we are now dealing with the fried pears? Is that b) the difficult relations in his ministry? That is also a political legacy of the VVD. Or c) Does he most of his VVD colleague beside him who makes a mess of legal protection and social law? Doesn't that have to hurt the minister as an ex-lawyer? We've had a series of incidents at the Ministry. Are they still incidents? Think of receipts that are losing, independent research that is being manipulated, the figures on crimes committed by asylum seekers who led to Harbers' departure, the interference in the criminal case against Wilders, the lost crucial documents in the Poch case. And there's more like it. I'm really worried about the Ministry. The question is whether this Minister can put his house in order. If so, how is he going to do that? Shouldn't there be an external investigation to the State Department? The approach to crime is important to this minister, he emphasizes. He has a lot of good words for this, including in the media. Nor do I doubt the intentions of this minister, but I doubt the achievements. You cannot keep shouting for free that you think there should be structural extra money and then not arrange it. If you're a minister, you're in a position to do so. But the Minister didn't do that. Why not? Didn't he get this done in the cabinet? Was the Minister of Finance bothering you? Everyone now recognises that there is a major shortage of police capacity. This cabinet is saddled with that heavy legacy of the VVD. New agents need to be found and trained, but does the Minister think that the Police College has sufficient resources to cope with this fuss? Structurally extra money is needed to tackle crime. It was the minister himself who said in the debate last week that the rule of law is beginning to crack now that even a lawyer has been murdered. He said, what's gone in one year, it takes you four years to rebuild it. That's just an incredible sneak at the VVD's austerity policy. I think that's right. That self-appointed party of law-and-order must really dim. The minister always promises extra money and extra agents, but they always don't get there, not in 2018 and not this year either, in 2019. Meanwhile, the Minister counts the officers in training to polish the figures. What does this minister say to all those cops, all those mayors and all those people who can't go to the police in the next few years? That they're unlucky? That they'll have to wait a few more years? How is the minister gonna make sure district agents can just keep working in their neighborhoods, like we agreed? What can and cannot be done by the police in terms of tasks in the near future? Cops now, for example, often have to talk to confused people. That's poignant. Those people aren't supposed to be in jail, they're supposed to be in care. But ggz settings don't catch people. Does the Minister agree with me that this is wasted precious police capacity? What's he gonna do about this? I actually want two things from this minister. One. I want him to be honest about the numbers of cops and about what can and what can't be done. Two. I want him to do everything you can to solve the problems right now. That is, therefore, making structural additional money available. But he hasn't done either so far. The question is, in the end, what is the rule of law worth to us? I expect the Minister to act to resolve these problems as soon as possible. The Public Prosecutor's Office is also important, but it is forgotten too often, even now. Why does the D.A. barely get any money when it's really necessary? How can you bet extra on, for example, sex crimes and better deal with organised crime if you fail the prosecuting authority? Those hard cuts in the state's attorney's office have done a lot of damage, but I don't hear any plans to fix it. Why not? The probation period is 2.5 million euros short for next year. Why does the Minister not invest enough in the security of all of us? In the prison system, too, the money is leading. Prisons are closed, but now they're almost full again and there's a cell shortage. There are too few personnel on too many prisoners and too many insecurity. What is the Minister going to do to reduce the workload for prison staff and increase security? Mr. Chairman. What this minister really needs is the Minister of Finance to tackle crime money, but above all to tell him that he really needs to do something about letterbox companies and tax constructions. They are being exploited by criminals in a massive way to channel billions of euros away and launder them. Crime shouldn't pay off. We all agree on it, but we're barely getting anything taken away and money laundering is way too easy. Here too, the Minister promises a lot, but I do not yet see any concrete and tangible results. Mr. Chairman. Making crime possible is, of course, also extremely criminal. What happens to people and companies that facilitate crime? I think there's far too little going on right now. The SP is in favour of better enforcement of the anti-money laundering law, but now really. Those who knowingly pay too little attention to compliance with laws designed to prevent money laundering must be able to lose their licence as soon as possible. I am referring, for example, to the trust offices on the Zuidas. Whoever supports the underworld loses his right to operate freely in the upper world. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Justice also means, above all, that people can get their rights, because everyone has the right to the right to our rule of law. This certainly applies to the victims of injury, who really deserve better support. In this respect, I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA and the note we have written together. We've been talking a lot to victims and lawyers lately. Radar's black book is clear: people are now just being victimized for the second time. They are first victims of, for example, a traffic accident or a medical failure, and then of the insurer, who slows things down and does everything possible not to pay people what they deserve. That's poignant. That is why we are submitting proposals. We propose, among other things, that there should be more sanctions for training insurers and that disciplinary law should be introduced where people can complain about these insurers. I really hope that the Minister will work on these proposals quickly. In criminal law, we should use mediation more often. Everyone knows it's working. It helps the victims recover and there is less recidivism. Mediation in criminal law is a great success for society. The number of cases is expected to increase, but the budget is not rising, because of the limited resources available in the budget, according to the Minister. It may get a bit monotonous, but here too: do we always have to look only from the money and the short term? In this case, too, I think that would be very unwise. I would like to get a commitment that the budget can grow with limited growth in the number of cases, which are often successful, as the Minister knows. Achieving your right is fundamental in a rule of law, but for many people the judge is too expensive, too complicated and too far away. A long time ago, in the time of Napoleon, we still had 220 peace judges in the Netherlands. I'm not going through the whole history, but that number was falling. The scale increase has been particularly rapid over the last 20 years. 31 out of 64 locations are still open. So half of the jurisdictional sites have been closed for the past 20 years. Justice has disappeared from people's neighborhoods, while people need something nearby, where they can easily walk in and tell their stories, from person to person. We must re-establish the practice of the canton court in the coming years, but we must also continue to develop it. Socially accessible and accessible justice contributes to maintaining social peace. Better resolution of disputes can end deeper conflicts and benefit people's health. The SP wants the law and the judge to be accessible to everyone again. People need to be able to present their conflicts and problems to a judge, mediator, lawyer or, for example, municipal debt relief, affordable, accessible and nearby, for example in a municipal location. Recently, the National Ombudsman also supported that idea. There are already many initiatives, for example in The Hague, Rotterdam and Eindhoven. In Heerlen, the first House of Justice will actually be opened on 1 January. In Amsterdam, a proposal from the SP has recently been adopted for a House of Law. The judge must be reachable for everyone, so nearby, accessible, affordable and solution-oriented. What can and will the Minister himself actually do to contribute to this, so that people's confidence in the government will increase further? I wrote a note with the Christian Union, which I would like to spread. Then there's the subsidised legal aid. Access to justice is the foundation of our rule of law. While the government spends a lot of money for itself on expensive lawyers, affordable legal aid for a lot of people has come under heavy pressure due to years of austerity in social law. Access to justice should not depend on the thickness of your wallet, because if only people who have a lot of money can get their rights, then we get class justice. That also says more than half of the social lawyers in our survey. 70% is considering stopping this beautiful and important work. They gave the minister a 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 10. That is even lower than the 4.6 Minister Dekker received when he was still Secretary of State for Education. For two years there has been the report of the Van der Meer Committee, which states that there is now no fair remuneration for lawyers. The Minister still doesn't do anything about that. I think that's a real shame. The lawyers have demonstrated in gowns. Their clients told their harrowing and personal stories in the media. We have had fierce debates, where the lawyers even ran away angry and sad because of this minister's disinterest. Fire letters, petitions, they've really given everything. And now there is a first result. The SP congratulates the social attorneys on this first victory. They'll get 36 million euros next year. This is not because of a change in the Minister's understanding, because he maintained until the last time that extra money could not and was not necessary. But we forced this minister to act together. Action pays off. I am afraid that the Minister himself thinks this is a bad measure, but I think it was the absolute minimum that was needed. The Minister had no choice. It was a necessary first step, forced by the activists. The discontent may have been paid off with this, but the problems have not been solved. The intrusive question is: how to proceed? 'Cause this isn't gonna solve it. In fact, the Minister does initiate a controversial change in the system, but does not do anything structural for the remuneration of social lawyers. Finally, the report of the Van der Meer Committee must of course be followed: a fair number of points and a fee per case. If it is up to this minister, this will not happen for a total of four years. That's unacceptable. So let us say today that this must be the starting point in the interests of our rule of law and the preservation of social law. Finally, Mr President, I have a proposal. That is actually more for the following period: would it not be a good idea for us to appoint a Minister for Legal Protection for the next period, but a real one, someone who has a heart for the rule of law, who stands up in the Cabinet for this important fundamental right and who respects and appreciates the important role of social lawyers? If only we had such a Minister for Legal Protection; perhaps that would be something for the next period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. "The Secretary of State wants to look up the boundaries." I read that in the Volkskrant this morning, because "you're getting shit all over this post." Clear language, interesting interview. The SP represents a realistic migration policy. People in need deserve protection. People who are not entitled to asylum will have to return. Above all, it is important to remove the causes of migration, such as war and violence. The vast majority of refugees around the world are being received in the region. That also makes sense, because people are looking for protection close to home. However, the shelter is not often literally hopeless. That is why many decide to move further towards Europe. They fall into the hands of unscrupulous human smugglers. Thousands have already drowned in the Mediterranean. If these refugees had been helped on the ground, that deadly crossing would not have had to take place. During our work visit to Lampedusa I was strengthened in that thought. I was also strengthened in that thought when I read on the NOS website what the Greek Government intends to do on the Greek islands with the closed centres. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Governments need to do much more to support refugees in the region, not only humanitarian aid but also socio-economic aid: to provide a perspective in the form of work and education. This concept is developed in the book Refuge by Paul Collier and Alexander Betts. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to that book. At the same time, the Netherlands will also have to take its fair share. There's a lot of support for that. More than three quarters of the Dutch want to provide shelter to people fleeing war and violence. We have to be careful about that. This means, however, that we must make a clear distinction between political refugees and economic migrants, because it is under pressure from the problems with the so-called'safekeepers'. Among them are boys who know very well that they don't stand a chance of asylum but who try anyway. They put pressure on the system and carry out all kinds of rottenness: theft, violence, nuisance. Read the revealing article in yesterday's NRC. In fact, the troublemakers say, if you don't take us down real hard, we're gonna go on and we're gonna laugh at you, too. In Ter Apel they are quite tired: 95% of the thefts are carried out by safelanders. Tough talk from the VVD isn't worth much, because the police station has been wiped out. Take a look in the mirror first. Will the Secretary of State ensure that the police in Ter Apel return to full strength, including a fully-fledged police station? Because of all the trouble, municipalities are not eager to open a new azc. Do you understand? And do you understand that the mayor of Ter Apel, of Westerwolde, is no longer in the mood for more safelanders? To reduce the nuisance, he asks for a separate registration center for this group. How's that going? And he's not the only one. Amsterdam and Hoogeveen are no longer participating. The so-called aso-azc's failed. The King's Commissioner in Brabant, Wim van de Donk, did his best to find shelters. In the meantime, he taps out of a whole different vessel. He is right to ask for an adequate approach to the safety of the people. The Secretary of State has a real problem here. I don't see a solution from the Ministry in the short term. In this context, of course, it is also important to return. The Secretary of State really needs to negotiate with the countries of origin much more firmly. Look closely at all diplomatic possibilities, but also at trade relations and visa policy. Would you like to list the possibilities? In this morning's Volkskrant interview, the Secretary of State says: if there is another person in front of me who cannot be sent back, then I call on the ambassador and then it turns out to be possible. Then I thought: well, that's interesting, because if you can do that more often, you'll solve this problem. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Those huge waiting times and the shortage of shelters are not natural phenomena. They are the result of short-sighted policies led by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr Van Dijk called on the Secretary of State to work on return, and rightly so, and felt that measures should be taken to this end. Does he also support the call of the VVD to put people from certain groups who we know are leaving patterns at some point with unknown destination and from being out of control, into detention earlier, until we are sure that they are actually out of the country? Can the SP support that idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u42	Well, I was just asking what's going on with a possible second registration center, as the mayor of Westerwolde also asked the Secretary of State. We're talking about safe-lords, trouble-makers, safe-lords, to be precise. I do share the concern of all those mayors and all those residents who are tired of the thefts and the violence. Do you have to imprison them all, as I taste a little bit in your question? I would like to be very cautious about that, because nuisance is something other than crime. However, we must examine all possibilities, such as detention, placing them in semi-closed institutions, or in a second registration centre, as proposed by the mayor. I'd love to. Take a good look at that, because I too believe that the nuisance needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u43	So I think the short answer is no. The SP in itself wants to tackle the troublemakers. But the fact that, in the end, half of all the people from safe countries that we could deport, simply disappears prematurely and so can go asylum shopping and thus cause nuisance without being able to deport them, he doesn't really want to address the source by saying: we're going to put people in detention faster, even before they've caused nuisance, just if they're a risk of evading supervision, and if we have eyes on expulsion, put people in detention faster, until they've been deported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u44	Now Mrs Becker says: even before they cause trouble. I think that's gonna be very difficult. I don't know any judges who would want to do that. That is what the COA itself says. The judge still decides in the Netherlands whether someone can be imprisoned. I would like a response from the Minister to these proposals from the VVD. And I'll ask the VVD to reflect, too. The problem of the returners, and that of the nuisance, is serious, absolutely. But why don't you think about how that happened? We are now facing enormous waiting times within the asylum chain. That was, of course, caused by the cuts led by all those VVD cabinets. We've talked about it before. That makes a lot of people wandering the streets right now. The return and the procedures take far too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u46	Hurry up with that. It's not a natural phenomenon. That mop policy comes from political choices. It's not because of complex asylum issues, as the Secretary of State at Nieuwsuur claimed, and what she didn't have to swallow for nothing a few days later. It's a giant slipper. Mr. Chairman. It is getting worse, because these cuts led by various Rutte Cabinets lead to waiting times and the IND is now faced with periodic penalty payments worth as much as EUR 17 million. What a waste! We could have used that money for shelter. The opposite is the case if you are wondering whether there would really be any improvement now, because now the Secretary of State also wants to abolish legal aid, totally contrary to the opinion of the Van Zwol committee, which spoke wisely about this. Why did you set up this committee if you did throw her advice in the trash? The disadvantages are obvious. It will lead to more work for the IND while the service is already overflowing. There is also an increase in the risk of appeal cases. What a waste of human strength. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the shadowiness surrounding the resignation of former Secretary of State Harbers. The figures on crime among asylum seekers appear to have been muffled away not unintentionally but consciously. What is the new Secretary of State doing against these practices in its ministry? Please respond to the broadcast of Reporter Radio last Sunday about identity fraud. The IND refuses to open up the numbers. I'd like a complete overview. Mr. Chairman. Then the Minister of Justice, Minister Grapperhaus. Please respond to my motion 35300, No. 14, on the approach to racism at the football stadium that I submitted to the legislative consultation on integration last Monday. I ask the government, in consultation with the KNVB, to consider how the criminal prosecution of racism can be improved. I also ask for better detection with the help of special cameras and microphones, because racism must be eradicated by root and branch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I understand that this motion was tabled during a debate with Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yes, and then Minister Koolmees said, please discuss that with Minister Grapperhaus. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u49	You've done that now. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you. Chairman. After years of austerity, there are cautious signs of recovery, which is urgently needed, because the core institutions of our rule of law are struggling. The Ministry itself is certainly not the beacon of peace and stability that it should be. That is why it is a good thing that the cabinet is implementing a motion by D66 and the Christian Union to solve the acute problems of legal aid, but we are far from there. Social attorneys have been struggling with years of late maintenance. That is problematic, because our system is based on power and counterpower, and a strong lawyer provides that counterpower. My first questions are about that. In this context, how does the Minister for Legal Protection see the occasional solution to a structural problem? What are his plans in the short and medium term now that the lawyer is back at the table? I'd like an extensive response. Mr. Chairman. Then there's justice. I'll wait, because I see Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u51	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think this is a very fair question from Mr Grothuizen of D66 to this government. Some lawyers are happy with this occasional solution, they see it as a good first step, but a lot of people are right to say: we are still going to strike, we are still not going to take it anymore. I believe that this is also perfectly understandable, because the report of the Van der Meer Committee has been on the Minister's desk for two years. If we are not careful, I will also say to Mr Groothuizen, then two years later it is still in his desk drawer without anything having happened to it. Are we going to hand this problem over to another cabinet? Then this minister left his ministry and then there is a next cabinet that has to cough up 154 million structurally. How does Mr Groothuizen see that? What does he think, what does D66 think, what still needs to be done in this cabinet period in order to maintain and guarantee the social legal profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u53	I can see it along two lines. We come from a period in which for five or six years only savings have been made. That's Mr. Van Nispen and I once. We're taking three steps now, I think. We have some sort of plan to revise, we have indexed again for the first time, we have put a fence around the budget and we are now drawing money out. That is not enough. In my view, what we need to do now is to work very hard with these two years in order to work with these pilots and see what we can actually do and how much that will ultimately lead to putting them back into legal aid. Then we have to do the analysis of what we need. I think we should have the first signs of this in a year and a half or two. And then I think the question is how much extra money we need. I see it as a task of D66 to start pleading for this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u54	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr President, justice. Independent and high-quality justice provides legal certainty and guarantees freedoms. This also includes the possibility of the government being corrected. And luckily, that's what's happening. Recent examples include judgements on important issues such as climate, nitrogen and euthanasia. However, judges are concerned about the implementation of their decisions. A survey showed that 25% of judges have doubts as to whether decisions they take against government are being implemented. I find that worrying, because the government is bound by its own rules and justice is in favour of guarding that. But if the government ignores nasty court rulings, the task of justice threatens to come under pressure. Does the Minister of Justice understand those doubts of judges? Does the Cabinet, the Minister of Justice, agree with me that the government is always obliged to carry out judicial judgements? And if so, what role does he see for himself to ensure that this actually happens? I would also like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, I identified three key problems in the justice system: the financial deficits, the advanced product financing and the discussion on the governance structure. Today we can see that progress has been made. The extra money that the cabinet spends on justice solves the deficit and even gives a little room for innovation. And the financing model has been adapted. But money is a means, not a goal. D66 welcomes these steps, but there is still a lot of work to be done. The visitation of justice shows that there are considerable challenges. The workload must be reduced, the diversity of judges can be improved and the lead times must be shorter, because good law is also fast law. The Minister agreed with the Justice Council to eliminate all delays until 2022, but is that realistic, I ask the Minister for Legal Protection. And how do judges and support staff look at that ambition? I'd like a realistic assessment. Mr. Chairman. Despite the great task ahead of the justice system, D66 has confidence in our judges. There's a lot of work going on. The quality and commitment are great and the people in the justice system deserve respect. I am therefore annoyed with green and yellow when I hear Members of Parliament speak denigratingly about the case law or about judges. You may, of course, disagree with a statement and you may think that rules need to be changed, but if the members of one state power are submissive or derogatory about members of the other, both powers will eventually be damaged. Mr. Chairman. So progress on two issues, but the governance structure in the case law remains a problem. So far, ministers have not interfered in the appointment of members of the Council for justice, but it is not entirely excluded. A number of articles in the Law on the Judicial Organisation are potentially vulnerable. I read in the Minister's letter that he wants to limit his role in the appointment procedure of the members of this council, and I welcome that. But if that's enough, I'll ask him. Is it not better to remove the role of the Minister altogether? How does the Minister for Legal Protection view his role in the light of the trias politicians? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the Public Prosecutor, the key player in the criminal enforcement of our legal order. This organisation too has had a turbulent time. The substantial cuts made by the Rutte II cabinet are partly responsible for this. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet reverses the remaining cuts on the prosecution, following a motion of D66 and the CDA. But we're not here yet. The other big issue this year was the Foks Commission, which strongly ruled on the lack of self-cleaning capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Summit. The crux isn't in the habit of people crossing the line sometimes. It's like that everywhere. The crux is that the top of the public prosecutor's office did not respond adequately and set different standards: one for ordinary officers and employees, and one for the top. For an organization that has to take others' measure, measuring with double standards for its own personnel is devastating. You could still hope it was an incident, but recently there were several more problems at the D.A.'s office. My question to the Minister of Justice is therefore: can the institution which is meant to carry the broom through society actually clean up its sidewalk itself? And what is the Minister going to do to restore confidence in, but also in, the D.A.'s office? 'Cause that's what it takes. Mr. Chairman. I also see a state's attorney looking for new avenues. I welcome that. Criminal law is dynamic and you have to keep thinking, for example, about trial and judgment agreements, but with a solid legal basis and it is not there at the moment. Then there are consequences, as we recently saw in a Zwolse money-laundering shop. It is therefore high time that the Minister of Justice started working and presented a thorough analysis, so that we can also answer the question of whether this type of judgment and procedure does not marginalize the role of the judge too much. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister of Justice when this thorough analysis will come about, because we need to talk about this as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We must also think about the fight against wrong money. Wrong money corrupts the upper world and is detrimental to the most important ingredient in a society, namely trust. I am therefore very interested in the concept of non-conviction-based confiscation. However, I think that the Minister's plans on this point are too limited. I also believe that there should be good guarantees: no powers without guarantees. That is why, with Mr Van Nispen, I have written an extensive note on non-conviction-based confiscation. I shall hand it over to the Commissioner, at least that is what Mr Van Nispen is doing. I would ask the Minister to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u56	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr. Chairman. Then the Justice Department itself. After a quieter period, the weather rains incidents: the pressure on the WODC and on the whistleblower that brought it out, the constantly new information about the Wilders case, a outgoing top official who played for private investigator and a outgoing regiment who stepped up after very crazy figures came out, and then a kind of mudfight in which the former executive and civil servants in question didn't agree on what exactly happened via the media. In each of these issues fear seems to reign: fear of bad news, and fear of just admitting that things go wrong and that simple solutions do not exist. Mr. Chairman. Apart from those examples, I also see other things as MPs: three times have to ask before you get a real answer, answers that sometimes don't go far, and in important, large and complex files like legal aid and DNA I notice that we get tons of thick reports from external agencies with beautiful names. I have the following questions to the Minister of Justice. Why are we getting those external reports? Doesn't the department have that knowledge anymore? And if so, isn't that problematic for a Justice Department? And more generally, when is the Minister taking the helm again to turn fear culture into a culture of trust, a culture in which it can also be admitted that reality is sometimes unmanageable? Mr. Chairman. This budget shows signs of recovery: justice, public prosecutors and social lawyers get some air, not least insisting from the Chamber. But the question is whether it is enough and whether it was wise to intervene so hard with organizations whose biggest capital is the people who work there, and the knowledge and experience they have. More sustainable financing is needed.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the Minister of Justice agree with me? And how is he going to shape that? How does he look at the various forms of product financing that we still have? Does such funding really fit in with the value of our rule of law? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This point brings me seamlessly to another theme: asylum and migration. Looking at the domestic situation, the problems with the IND are particularly striking. The waiting times are huge, and that has great consequences for people. People with a good chance at asylum are waiting a long time for a decision. In the meantime, they're frustrated along the way. That's not good for them and it's not good for us. The Secretary of State rightly acknowledges that the problems were mainly caused by a strange financing model and the dismissal of staff in 2017. As a result, the IND is in fact following the facts. But my question to the Secretary of State is the following. How is it possible that her party, the VVD, who has been responsible for this file for a long time, has allowed this to happen? How can you apply such a grocery approach to such a complex and politically sensitive dossier? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there are also small points of light. The coalition released a lot of money early this year to solve the problems. The financing model is on the move. But here again, money is a means and not an end. D66 is only satisfied when most decisions are made in time, when promising asylum seekers are given priority so that they are no longer on the sidelines for a long time and when our asylum system has become more flexible, in order to avoid endless relocations and to respond to changing circumstances. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State writes about her ambitions, but I doubt they're realistic. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to send it to the Chamber quarterly reports on progress so that we as a Chamber can also adjust if necessary. I'd like a commitment. Mr. Chairman. Where I see national lights, I am less optimistic internationally. Whether it is about the common European asylum policy, about return or about legal migration routes, the key lies in international cooperation, preferably at European level. However, the European migration debate is a dead end, and the Netherlands does not play an active or constructive role. The number of people coming to Europe has fallen considerably and is in fact easily accessible. But it seems that with that decrease, the sense of urgency has also diminished. And that is unwise, because international reality does not take account of the discussions in The Hague. I mention exciting fighting in Libya, unrest in South America, Erdogan's threat to send Syrian refugees to the EU and the persistently poor conditions on the Greek islands. We will have to work together internationally, but in this respect the cabinet is doing moderate work. The progress report on the Integrated Migration Agenda speaks volumes. I quote: coordination and cooperation in the EU are inadequate. A euphemism! What is the cabinet going to do? Is the cabinet going to be united in this? If you really want good agreements with a country about for example return, you will also have to offer something. But what does the Cabinet have to offer? With what offer does the Secretary of State go exactly to which countries to make this happen? Mr President, I will conclude. In a rapidly changing society, our rule of law deserves constant attention and maintenance. A number of steps have been taken, but there is still an enormous amount of work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u58	I have another question about abolishing legal aid in the asylum procedure. Does Mr Groothuizen share my view that this can be counterproductive? As the lawyers also say, as RefugeeWork also says, it will lead to more work for the IND, it will cause longer lead times and the procedure will become less efficient. Do you share that view? And perhaps you'd like to see how we can get rid of that measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, I share that view. This wasn't a wish from D66. The VVD wanted to go much further in limiting legal aid. This is a compromise. I think it is an unwise choice, but it is the agreement we made in a package in which, as you know, many difficult things on the right and left had to be united. So, unfortunately, this is reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, D66 presented the Digital Revolution pamphlet. I would like to offer it to the directors present in this House as well. The subject of the pamphlet is power. And that power is shifting through digitalization. Yesterday, in relation to the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, I discussed the power of companies, of the big technologists. Today I focus on the power of the government. First of all, digitisation has brought us a lot, including in the field of security, from camera surveillance in entertainment areas to device hacking. More and more is possible. But we also need to ensure that we do not slip through, otherwise we lose sight of basic constitutional values. There has been a clear trend towards data greed in recent years. Governments are collecting, linking and analysing data more and more, more and more personal data. Let's talk about collecting the data itself. Over the past decades, more and more databases with information about people have been digitized. Identity data, tax data, address data, employment data, educational data, police databases, CVK data, etc. In total, there are over 5,000 databases of personal data. 5,000! There are so many databases that they don't even record exactly how many there are anymore. If we want to keep a grip on the power of the government, then we need to keep a grip on the amount of data, because data is power and we need to limit that power of the government. This starts with an overview of all databases with personal data of governments. I ask the Minister for Legal Affairs if he can send an overview of this to the Chamber. In addition, governments are increasingly using new data sources. Smart cities full of sensors, satellites, all kinds of scan cars, environmental cameras. More and more sensors are being used and data collected to use them for a particular purpose, but they are later used for a very different purpose. This goes against the important principle of goal-binding. In addition to the fact that the government collects, it also connects more and more data and is also increasingly analysed. For example, data about where you are. We've been talking about facial recognition for a while, but it's also about data about who you're in contact with and what you're spending your money on. A fairly accurate picture of our lives is gradually being built up. The police can access a lot of that data, provided someone's suspicious. But what we see now is that there are also numerous databases linked and analyzed to detect misbehavior from innocent people. Innocent people! Baking data from people who aren't suspected of anything are analyzed to see if they've done anything wrong without cause. That sounds efficient, which sounds useful for detection, but it has a wrong effect on our society. In fact, it's just a step too far! With this we step over the basis of our rule of law and gradually move towards a Chinese situation, in which people are constantly monitored with data analyses, with cameras and with facial recognition: a surveillance state. One of our fundamental rights is that the government has no business in our private lives unless we are suspected of anything. This fundamental right is reversed with all these data analyses. We are now suspects in advance, unless the computer clears us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u62	I would like to ask Mr Verhoeven whether there is a particular priority in the rights of people whom I think D66 regards as very important. Is the right to privacy more important than, for example, the right to life? Does he think it is more important that we keep our privacy in order than that liquidations are being fought, quite specifically? I think that a very one-sided approach is being taken here, and I know Mr Verhoeven as a very versatile man, so I cannot imagine him limiting himself to this one-sided approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you for that question. Fundamental rights, civil rights, but let me focus above all on fundamental rights. That is always stressed. For example, you can choose to reduce the privacy of someone when it is necessary for state security. Everyone knows that different fundamental rights must be balanced. My argument is precisely that this balance has been lost in recent years and that we have moved ever further towards some sort of search thinking, using all the means to sanctify a particular goal. That is not the right path. So I'm always looking for a good balance. It is not that I think it is more important than anything else, but I do think that one interest is now undersnowing from the other because there is no prior thought about the different fundamental rights and different interests in a society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thinking in advance, Mr Verhoeven finds me by his side. We have talked extensively here today about the undermining approach. There are two problems with the undermining approach. On the one hand, that's capacity. We've talked about that a lot. The other problem is the exchange of information. That comes up again and again and again. Whether it's public-public, public-private or private-private, that's the theme. In the D66 approach, I hear that this importance, the importance of combating crime, the fight against undermining, that kind of aspect, is very small in relation to the privacy that is very great. Of course, that also fits the profile of that party. But how do you deal with this aspect in relation to the fight against crime? Don't people have the right to keep their property, keep their lives and stuff like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u65	This has nothing to do with my political party's profile. This has to do with a free and democratic rule of law. This has to do with a number of constitutional principles, for example the principle that you are not guilty until proven otherwise. I have just argued that this is reversed by all these data collections and analyses. In doing so, we are undermining the rule of law. That should incredibly scare the CDA, but also the VVD and, in fact, all parties in the Chamber. This has nothing to do with a party that wants to profile on privacy. This has to do with defending the fundamental rights of all people in society. You're innocent until proven guilty. You don't have to prove that you're not wrong because a computer happened to collect some data after which it's said on the basis of a pattern analysis: this group, these people might start to behave wrongly. That is a reversal of our fundamental rights. That has nothing to do with a political profile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u66	Finally, because I understand that we only have 18 interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u67	Eighteen? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u68	You'd make more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u69	Anyway, we're about to have a separate debate on this. I hope in the presence of both ministers. Mr Verhoeven is presenting a pamphlet these days. At the end of this week we present a pamphlet that is really different from tone. It is not just about protecting privacy, but also about other rights that people have. That complaint of rights is what makes the rule of law, to my taste. The one-sidedness of this debate is a great danger to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u70	I will read the pamphlet of the CDA Group which will be released on Friday with great pleasure and appreciation. That's what I'm saying. I have deliberately chosen the one-sidedness that Mr Van Dam is talking about, because over the last 20 years there has been another one-sidedness, namely the pattern that we are increasingly going to make on the basis of data, that governments and companies are getting more and more control over, power over and control over people. We need to break that trend at some point. We let this go on and on and on and on and on: in the interests of safety this must be possible, and in the interests of safety it must be possible. In the interests of security, much can be done, but in the interests of the rule of law and innocence, the idea that you are innocent until proven otherwise must also be very much possible. That is now the importance that D66 is putting forward. The other interests are also great, but there has to be a balance. I was just about to say that the right to privacy is not absolute. But too one-sided technology-based security thinking is not healthy. So what we need is a careful balance between the principle of innocence, the fundamental right to privacy and the importance of public security. Words like "privacy is the shield of criminals" do not help. According to that logic, people have to share all their data with the government otherwise they help criminals. I hope the Minister will also reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u71	I thought it was a sensible contribution from the CDA, although he has me a little confused. Because yesterday on the radio and in the newspaper...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u72	The CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u73	Yeah, I'm making a bridge. I'm just gonna take everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u74	Oh, you mean Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr Van Dam joined RTL Nieuws yesterday, with BNR, in various media with D66...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u76	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u77	... and said: to here and no further, for example with facial recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u78	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u79	So I couldn't quite follow that twist. But let me focus on Mr Verhoeven. His party has always been very clear about this. We are talking today about the budget of Justice and Security, and D66 is still able to come here with a whole story about security and how we arranged it. Well, actually, D66 comes up with a caricature of our rule of law. Mr Verhoeven referred to the 'Chinese situation'. Like we're all being followed here on the street by the government, and that government is interested in what you ate yesterday and what you're going to buy tomorrow. This cabinet is working hard to prevent jihadists from coming to our country to prevent terrorists from coming here to track down drug lords. That is precisely why we need all these instruments and this technology. When will we finally find D66 on our side when it comes to keeping our country safe? And when will D66 stop creating a false contradiction between security and privacy? We have a rule of law in this country, we have rules here. It's nice to have better rules with new technology. But to say, along with the CDA: up to here and no further and a brake on it? You can't do that, can you? There are mega-big threats at the door!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'm sure you can. First of all, I am very pleased that I have found Mr Van Dam and the CDA by my side to ensure, at least in the case of facial recognition, one of the most far-reaching technologies, that we first have constitutional principles and clear frameworks, before we proceed with them. We shouldn't do that without someone knowing exactly how exactly, where exactly, when exactly and by whom exactly. So I'm glad. Mrs Yeşilgöz talks about caricature and a false contradiction. They're from her party, from the VVD. It has been forgotten that safety is a very important principle and that there are a lot of opportunities to improve safety, but that you should not do so at all costs. And that's exactly what the VVD always does. One pretends that safety is all that matters. This means that we are completely losing sight of privacy, autonomy, equality of people. So I think the contradiction the VVD mentions is not the right one. We need to find a balance together. By always pretending there is a contradiction between privacy and security, we do not get to that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u81	Maybe we can make it a little more concrete. Recently we had a report from Hoekstra on a number of very serious, well-known situations. In his last monitor, Mr Hoekstra says the following. Anne Faber, Joost Wolters, Els Borst, Loïs: all kinds of information and risks that were known were not shared and that has had dramatic, tragic consequences. Does the D66 also think that such a signal should really be taken seriously, and that something really needs to be improved in the sharing and exchange of information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u82	Now I'm gonna have to make sure we don't start throwing two things together. D66 has always advocated the targeted exchange of information between investigation services and intelligence services. D66 has always said: not just more, more, more data collection. No, we want to collect targeted data and then exchange information between different services and organisations within Europe, in the world, much better. This is quite different from creating 5,000 databases that contain information about innocent people who have never done anything wrong, and drawing conclusions about people who are not suspects. These are two totally different methods. So don't come to me with: child pornography, terrorism, the murder of Els Borst, it's all because D66 doesn't want to exchange data. We do want targeted data on suspects to be properly and efficiently exchanged between investigation services and intelligence services. I never said anything else about that. This is about databases of data that are collected for a particular reason and are suddenly used for completely different things. Such an investigation is then unleashed on large groups of innocent people, and then leads to conclusions about innocent people. That's what I'm talking about here. That is something completely different from where Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u84	No, yeah, I know that name.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u85	Oh, you mean Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yeah, excuse me. Mr. Hoekstra. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u87	I recognize that it is a broad debate and that it can have very different faces. But I actually responded to what Mr Verhoeven said: we should not pretend that privacy and security bite each other. And he said it shouldn't be a problem. We can see that sometimes it is just a problem that we need to focus on, because it needs to be addressed. But I understand that D66 also says: yes, that is a very different subject than what I am concerned about right now. If there are obstacles and problems, the D66 Group also believes that more and easier sharing and exchange is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u88	We have always been in favour of targeted exchange over unfocused data collection. That has been the position of the D66 Group for many years. I have put this forward, for example, in various laws on this subject. Once again, very briefly, this is a serious point. It is not that we have to make a kind of political battle here of privacy versus security, it is about security versus security. This is about the freedom of many people who have never done anything wrong, who may happen to live in a particular neighbourhood, who may have a certain profile on the basis of their education or income and who are said to be: so, they might have a little more chance of fraud in certain cases. They are then put against the wall by the government, based on computer systems and data files. They're gonna have to face the fact that they have to prove they're innocent. Mr Van der Staaij, but also Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mrs Becker, Mr Krol and Mr Van Dijk should not be in favour of it. That's why I'm raising that point. I have an eye for every balance, but the balance has been lost lately. That is why I come here with a cry for help, which I hope will be taken seriously and not just drawn into a political frame, as Mrs Yeşilgöz, for example, seemed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u90	The possibilities of technology, now and in the near future, are almost unlimited. We're just at the beginning. And it's still going on. That is why we need to start a good, nuanced and social debate with the aim of getting good guidelines, legal guarantees and control before we apply these new technologies. Is the Minister prepared to stop the use of technologies such as SyRI and facial recognition until such a discussion has taken place and safeguards and controls have been designed? Finally, on this point. All these developments, initiatives, pilots and experiments in municipalities, in implementing agencies and in all kinds of places in society without knowing, create invisible wild growth. As far as D66 is concerned, the Minister for Legal Protection must be given a monitoring role and keep an overview of the level of surveillance in the Netherlands and publish a monitor every year. Is the Minister prepared to publish that survey? My colleague Monica den Boer, who is here, is not speaking today, because she has done the BZK budget. But on her behalf, I'm bringing in a number of police cases. D66 gives a compliment to police officers who work every day. In doing so, we agree with a number of speakers in this debate. But we also have concerns about the police organization. Reports of discrimination, sexism and racism prevail. However, the diversity programme The Power of Difference will be phased out in 2020. Isn't that too soon? Has it been independently evaluated? What were the results? Mr. Chairman. International police cooperation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u91	I hear Mr Verhoeven say: sexual harassment, discrimination and anything more ugly in the police. Is he saying there's a structural problem with the police? If so, can he back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u92	Well, I said what I said, that there are reports of discrimination, sexism and racism, and that that is problematic. I don't know what you mean by a structural problem. The fact that there are reports of discrimination, sexism and racism is a structural problem if that does not change, and we need to change it. It is a problem that we must ensure is not structural in the future. That is precisely why I think that diversity programme is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u94	International police cooperation. D66 wants a permanent European Border Regional Investigation Team to tackle serious cross-border crime. My colleagues from VVD and CDA never want to work together across borders, because then they fear that this will be at the expense of national sovereignty. I find that a false contradiction, but that aside. So a European approach to tackling serious cross-border crime. The minister was supposed to discuss this with the state's attorney's office. What's the outcome of this conversation? Is he going to make an effort for permanent search teams now? In addition, D66 also wants a joint crime image analysis between the Netherlands and its neighbouring countries. The Minister spoke to Belgium and Germany about this. When can we expect this analysis so that we can really use it to tackle international crime? Through the esteemed colleagues of the messenger service, I would like to offer this pamphlet to the cabinet. By the way, it is available to all Members of Parliament and I highly recommend it because it is a fundamental problem in our society. Of course, the Secretary of State will get one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u95	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u96	I think I should write a pamphlet too...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u97	You do a lot of other very important things for our democracy, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u98	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u99	I have just heard that there is a need for another copy, I say to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr Verhoeven certainly has that in stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u101	I'm going to start, Mr. Chairman, because time is precious. You can hardly comprehend it: 8-year-old kids who are already being recruited for drug crime. If we're very honest, we know when they're 2, 3 or 4 years old that the chances of them getting into crime are high. Because mothers are not present, there is great poverty and fathers are not present at all. Because the work perspective is low. Because the perspective of the future is very limited. Because with a bit of bad luck, their intellectual abilities are also limited. This is, of course, a recipe for misery, especially if you live in a neighborhood that is susceptible to crime and where drug runners like no other know which boys and girls are vulnerable and who to catch. Even if you don't end up in crime yourself, with a little bit of bad luck, you have a great chance of being confronted with the consequences of that crime. It's because the neighborhood is getting worse. Because you see how a misdemeanor takes place. Because you see friends and friends getting sucked up in that same circuit. Mr. Chairman. That almost calls for an operation school square, so that the school square is again a safe haven where children can grow up safely. So that children get a chance to get the best out of themselves despite their home situation. That therefore requires a very preventive approach. This may be a bit of a weird start to this Justice and Security budget, but I know the Cabinet wants this too. In this case, I would like to know from Minister Grapperhaus how we are going to shape this. How are we gonna shape that operation schoolyard together? How much budget can we make for that? What tasks and powers does he need to ensure that he can make agreements with police, prosecutors, judiciary, youth work, youth aid and protection? What does he need to get the noses in our cabinet the same way? In other words, how can we help? How much money can we pay for that, I already asked. But also: how can we do this for the longer term? We have seen a national programme in Rotterdam-Zuid that can be successful, for example by spending ten hours more per child on education. But that also takes a long time. That's what they've spent 20 years on. What perspective does the cabinet see? How does the Cabinet ensure that we can take this with us, regardless of which cabinet there is, this or any other? That is important, if we really want to be able to make a fist against this undermining crime. That's what I care about. Mr. Chairman. I see that the cabinet takes the fight against undermining seriously by spending extra money on it and looking for new legal instruments. But there are a number of concerns. Firstly, it takes a long time for legal instruments to become available. We've been working for five years to get a legal information sharing position. Everyone in this house has asked for it. I know it's in consultation right now, but it's taking a really long time. Every time, more wishes are actually added. I'm asking the Cabinet to make haste, please. Make sure our mayors, our law enforcement officers, can do their job. Mr. Chairman. My second point is money and capacity. I see the cabinet is investing extra money. That deserves a compliment, but I think it is a matter of concern and also of criticism that it is a one-off money. How can you rig up a drug control unit where 333 people have to go if you don't guarantee that money structurally, if you know that that capacity is now being drawn from other regions? There are 500 people in Rotterdam and 120 people in Enschede. Valkenswaard has to turn in three district agents and now he has no district agents at all. So I repeat again: why has the cabinet not chosen simply to make structural money available, starting with the 52 million that the new anti-drug unit should cost? Given the surplus that the cabinet now has, I think that is feasible. I will also table an amendment on this. It can, there is money available, technically it can, then why waste time? I would really like to ask the Minister that. It also plays a role in this respect that, at least until 1 March, the cabinet has worked out how to deal with the large deficits and the capacity problems that exist. If you only have clarity as of 1 March about how to release extra money, you will be at least six months further before you can actually start planning. That's taking way too long. For that long you cannot deny all those municipalities and all those cities the capacity they themselves need. There are major shortages in emergency aid. Neighborhood cop standards aren't being reached anywhere. Traffic checks haven't been carried out in a long time. Declarations take a very long time because there is no capacity available for them. In short, we have a big problem. But even if the money weren't a problem, it's still the question where we're gonna get all these people from. What solutions does the Minister see? After all, we know that the police academy can't handle the influx, even if we could find a lot of people right now. Also within the Corps there are not enough people at the moment. What radical measures will the cabinet take? Are we gonna seduce people who left the force to come back? How are we going to promote side-influx? Are we going to shorten the training so we can spare the police academy? Mr. Chairman. I also want to know from the Minister what tasks we are not going to do anymore. Last week I asked the Minister during the debate: what are we not doing anymore? He said: yes, but we have to do everything. I always want to do everything, but that's not how it works. In times of tightness, you'll have to make choices. So I ask Minister Grapperhaus this question again. I'd like to ask him another question. We've been a year since he said he's asked for an external audit to look at the bureaucracy within the police. I should now like to know from him in concrete terms what ten measures this has taken to reduce bureaucracy within the police. One point that also relates to the capacity of the police is the approach of confused persons. We are all very sorry, but at the same time the number of incidents involving confused persons is increasing. There are long waiting lists at the youth care and at the ggz. We've had the Thijs H case, the case of the unfortunately shot woman in Alkmaar and the case of Joost Wolters. We can see that this is a big problem. And that's just what we see from the people who are now confused on the street. It is not necessarily the competence of these ministers, it lies partly with Secretary of State Blokhuis, but I find this a little frightening. Shouldn't it be pulled harder, because it also affects the capacity of the police? Shouldn't we make a much harder deal on that? And shouldn't we just make it measurable, so that we can see that the number of incidents involving confused persons is falling? Because then you really do something fundamental, which you also do something about the high workload that the police feel. Mr. Chairman. I have two separate points I would like to put to Minister Grapperhaus. My first point concerns the stadium bans that the KNVB can impose at the time when there has been wrong conduct. I am not talking about a criminal route, but simply about the KNVB's own jurisdiction. Can they also impose a reporting obligation? Is that going to be maintained? Or are those really two separate worlds? That's what I'd like to know. Mr. Chairman. A justified point already raised by my colleague Van Toorenburg concerns the privacy of victims in the broad sense and the privacy of relatives. I do not need to repeat this, but I would like to join in seamlessly. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. After a sip of water I go to Minister Dekker; this was not entrapment. I'll start with a compliment. Last week we had a very nasty debate on social law. $5 million the minister wanted to offer. It's going to be 70 million now. This is one-off, but it means that the emergency fund will be filled for two years and that the talks with the social lawyer can start again. But this can never be the end point, because more will have to be done. I also think more needs to be done. Mr Van Nispen has said a few things about this. Let it be a start to something that is going to be fundamentally better. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the questions about the injury. As far as I am concerned, we have made a fine note. The need has been clearly defined by my colleagues. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A point that also lies with Minister Dekker is mediation. We tabled an amendment with D66 in 2017 to cover the budget deficit. I am sure that Mrs Van der Graaf will also pay attention to this in her contribution. But I just wish we could solve that shortage. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to do so. I have an amendment, but I do not think that this should be necessary if we are to reduce justice and ensure that citizens, residents, can achieve their rights in a different way. Mediation seems to me to be an excellent example of this. I'd like a response. Finally, I would like to turn to Minister Dekker's approach to sexual abuse, paedophiles. He has today announced in a very short note that he wants to follow up on the initiative, or at least on a request that we have also made, for an approach within the framework of the passport of people who wish to travel to other countries. This is, among other things, the case of Hans V., who was able to go into homes in Kenya and thus create new victims. I welcome the fact that this is being addressed. I think I'd like to move on myself, but I'm positive. I would like to ask the Minister how he is going to measure whether this is enough. Is he willing, for example, to look after a year to see if this will produce the desired effect? It is very positive that he is going to take steps in this after we have explicitly asked for this as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the Secretary of State on asylum. As has already been demonstrated by my interruption with Mrs Becker, I am extremely critical. I think the cabinet is constantly shooting itself in the foot here. By not ensuring that there are enough people to deal with asylum procedures, we have the worst of both worlds. People who do not belong here stay here much longer than is necessary and we hardly get the country deported. People who we know are very likely to have the right to asylum, wait a year or years in an asylum centre before they can focus on their future in the Netherlands. And then expecting them to integrate properly seems almost vain to me. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have the following question to the Secretary of State. She sees that there is a problem with the IND and that the waiting times are increasing. But why do you have to do your own investigation again? We know what the problems are, don't we? We can get to work now, can't we? You really don't need an external investigation for that. If that were necessary, it would have been done five months ago and not now. Mr. Chairman. What does the Secretary of State think of the criticism she receives from her own coalition partners? Mrs Van Toorenburg was very critical. It is not my words, but Mr Grothuizen said: sit behind your desk and get to work. Those are very harsh words. Does the Secretary of State recognise this and understand where this criticism comes from? Mr. Chairman. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is wrong to conclude that the removal of legal aid will make it easier for IND employees? Because the Van Zwol committee says: don't do that, because that only makes it more difficult for the IND. Secondly, it is likely that all kinds of additional procedures will have to be launched afterwards. There will also be additional tasks for the IND, because they now have to give more hands and feet to these types of procedures themselves. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State if she would withdraw this statement which she made in the Volkskrant this morning. Mr. Chairman. Two final questions. Why didn't the Secretary of State consult with the social lawyer himself? Isn't that a little inappropriate? And is she willing to have that conversation after all? I'm asking through you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Madam President. It is a long day together, but I hope that we all have energy for the continuation of this debate. Also 2019 We're still in the middle of this is a major year for our safety. I am thinking of the terrible attack in Utrecht in March, the possible return of caliphates, which we were talking about yesterday, and the increasing drug violence in vulnerable neighbourhoods. But with our rule of law, too, much is happening. There were attacks on lawyers, the Machiavelli Prize went to an threatened mayor and over the last few months there has been a lot of unrest within the social lawyer. Mr. Chairman. Peace and justice in our society are simply not self-evident. We need to invest in that. That's what this cabinet does. There will be more money for justice in this budget. There's gonna be more money for the police. There's gonna be more money for the D.A.'s office and more money for tackling undermining. The Christian Union welcomes that. It is incredibly important that we strengthen our rule of law. I also see we're not here yet. I therefore agree with Mr Van Dam's plea to ask the cabinet what is possible or to identify what is needed in the longer term criminal justice chain. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Legal Affairs. We've been talking to each other for a long time, and we've been asking for attention to be paid to the needs of the social attorneys. They are so important for the system of funded legal aid, in order to allow access to justice for people with a small grant. We welcome the extra money and see it as recognition for the work they are doing. Mr. Chairman. In last week's debate, I drew attention to the intensification of Guards and Security and its consequences for the base teams throughout the country. The Christian Union asks the Minister of Justice to make every effort to put these base teams in order. He has indicated that he will come back to us in February with his plan, but I really hope that the Minister will make a commitment to this. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u104	Many of Mrs Van der Graaf's investments are one-off investments. I wonder what this cabinet will leave behind in the run-up to the next election. But I would like to talk very specifically about that question about social law. Has Mrs Van der Graaf gone into this cabinet with the idea: you know what, we're going to put the Van der Meer Committee's report in a drawer for four years and nothing really happens to it? Or does Mrs Van der Graaf think that something should be done about this cabinet period? So I am not just talking about an occasional emergency fund, with which rates can be raised a little bit, but also, for example, about tackling the huge distortions in personal and family law. There should be a fair number of points equal to the number of hours of work. That's all gotten all crooked now. Does she at least want to do something about it? I cannot imagine that the Christian Union and, for example, D66 say: "Dear lawyers, this is what it is; you should be happy about that and we will see for ourselves at the next elections. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u105	It is important that we have now taken a step and that extra money has been made for the social lawyer, because it was very urgent. I also see a lot of reactions from lawyers who are happy about that and see that money as recognition for the work they do. I also indicated in last week's debate that the coalition agreement not only provides a budgetary framework, but also a substantive task, and that we must look at the challenges that lie ahead. I indicated last week in the debate that I think we should look at the way in which those points are being allocated at the moment. We completed the debate last week. I would also like to see what further steps we could take in the direction of the VAO on this point. I see problems there. That's what the lawyers see. We need to see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr. Chairman. Then there's justice and the district judge. Justice is not only about dispute resolution or a legal conflict, but also about restoring relations or resolving underlying problems. Access to a court in the vicinity and a quick solution to a conflict are important. I saw that myself when I once went out with a judge in the North of the Netherlands. People had a problem: they had bought a custom cupboard, which was made by a carpenter in their home. They had it all in their head how it was supposed to be. The carpenter had made the cupboard, but the material turned out not to be suitable. It was an expensive closet. People had paid a lot for it, but at some point the closet couldn't open. People were awake from that. That's a nasty conflict. The carpenter also thought: I prefer a satisfied customer. Such a conflict has to get out of the world quickly, otherwise the frustrations will get worse. In that case, the judge of the court succeeded in finding a solution: a settlement that both parties were happy with, a solution at the kitchen table, just one morning; not a long and costly process, but peace rather than litigation. This is also what the Christian Union sees in mind. Earlier, we proposed to investigate whether it would be feasible to give the example of the Belgian peace court a place in the Netherlands as well and to return the judge to districts, villages and cities. The researchers' response to this is positive. With the SP and D66 we would like to see that proximity judge, as those researchers have called him, become a more full-fledged option. Is the Minister for Legal Protection prepared to identify how this can be achieved? Mr President, then there is the right of recovery. Recently, I attended a conversation between a victim and a suspect in the context of mediation in a criminal case. I have seen that such a conversation, accompanied by good mediators, can lead to greater understanding and understanding of each other's actions and can also contribute to a better handling of the situation that has occurred between those involved. The money that was available for this year was already up in October. Luckily, the Minister wants to add to this. But next year we'll see this coming at us again. Is the Minister prepared to allow next year's budget to grow with the number of mediations that will be higher than is currently planned? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. And then drugs; colleagues have already mentioned this. "I'm afraid of how drugs are spoken of, as if everyone is using it and as if it's just part of it." That's something I could have said myself, but it's a quote from an addiction worker. More and more young people between 18 and 25 party on weekends with a pill on. The Trimbos also says that the use of xtc has increased. Most young people encounter hard drugs when they go to a festival. That's where I care. I am therefore pleased that a social debate has finally begun and that the Minister of Justice says that he wants to use public campaigns to make people aware of the consequences and to prevent the normalisation of drug use. That supports the Christian Union, but we also have a law, the Opium Act, which simply states that possession of hard drugs is punishable. I ask the Minister how often the Opium Act has been enforced in the last year in relation to drug possession of one to ten units of consumption. Does he believe with the Christian Union that there is still a world to be won here? For let us be, the law is clear: possession is punishable. The D.A.'s guidelines are also clear: if you have one pill or half a gram of coke with you, it will be taken away. If you have more, you risk a fine of a few hundred euros or even community service or a prison sentence if you get caught with it more often. Let's keep that in mind, I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. I also ask the Minister to respond to the situation in Glanerbrug, in the municipality of Enschede. I talked to the mayor about that this morning. This is an example in which the municipality acted to address the nuisance by maintaining it. How does the Minister feel about that? And is the Minister prepared to share this example as best practice for other municipalities in this country? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a proposal to the Minister on another point that brought to my attention the mayor, namely festivals and drug enforcement. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the municipalities to see if we can use a deposit as an instrument through the authorisation of events? You then call in the help of the festival organizers and remind them of their responsibility and appeal to them accordingly. The festival organizers would then have to pay bail and comply with the law. If an infringement of the Opium Act is found, then that guarantee will not be returned. It's an extra administrative sanction, a stick behind the door. Is the Minister prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u108	I have a question about drugs to the Christian Union. When it says 'public campaigns, information', I say: fine, I'm all for that. But the Christian Union also wants to criminalise the use of drugs far and wide. I wonder then, looking at how big the undermining problem is and looking at the capacity shortages in the police, whether that is the most sensible way to use our scarce police capacity. Or should we say: no, should we use the police capacity above all to tackle the serious drug criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u109	The plea I make here is based on the following view. I refuse to accept that it has become completely normal to possess hard drugs. That's the standard we all agreed to meet here in the Chamber. It's our law. The Opium Act makes it criminal to own hard drugs, to make them and to trade them. It's just a crime. It's not normal. I refuse to accept that the new will become normal. That is why I am making this plea to look at it with all the means we have. Maintaining is complicated. And yes, I see that the police are struggling with a large capacity shortage. I have an eye for that. I also believe that she should be able to act crediblely. But I also want to give them the opportunity to feel, when they are at those festivals and they see it coming by their eyes, that we as a government are sending out a double signal. That's what I'm fighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u110	I don't think anyone's arguing for the normalization of drug use, including me. But we have heard all the spokesmen today about the capacity problems in the police and also about the extent of the undermining problem. My question to the Christian Union is simply a very simple one: if we have to choose "that choice" we will have to make between criminalising the individual user and tackling the major drug criminals, who recruit vulnerable young people, what is the Christian Union's choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u111	The choice of the Christian Union is that we must stand by our police and do so as legislators, that we must keep our backs straight. I can see the tension. I just said that. I think you should use police capacity in a good way, smart and strategically. That doesn't mean we have to maintain everywhere, in all places. But see if you can do it in the places you know there's a lot of use. I am surprised at the position of GroenLinks. I just heard the GroenLinks spokesperson make a fantastic plea in his speech to pay attention to young people who are vulnerable. There's such a low threshold to get into that criminalized world. I thought it was going the right way with GroenLinks. We talk to people about where the food comes from, on whom the clothes have been made, on which child labour may have come into play, or on what the consequences for the environment are if you take the plane. Is GroenLinks therefore prepared to consider the consequences for our society, for our health and for peace and security in our country and to see if we can also address users on their responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u112	You may not be allowed anymore, Mr. Van den Berge, but you may respond briefly, otherwise it will be such a... Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u113	We are always prepared to reflect on the individual responsibility of people, whether they are climate issues, world trade or drug use. But we do not think that we should continue the debate in this respect. We need a comprehensive approach: prevention, repression and information. I think we should really look at it carefully and not under the guise of "otherwise we're going to normalize it" make the wrong choices. That's what GroenLinks stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u114	I think it is a point of profit that GroenLinks sees that the user also has a responsibility. How you then give that a place and start maintaining, is two. But I think it is a point of profit that GroenLinks also sees the point we are making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u115	Still at this point. I think it's too easy. You can be on the other side of an ideological discussion, but the fact is that maintaining more on one pill costs more police capacity. I would like to know from Mrs Van der Graaf what we are not going to do. Because that makes this story so weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u116	I also said that enforcement is not easy. It's complicated. So I see that tension field, too, but I don't think we should close our eyes to it. I'm asking the Minister to clarify. The Minister is coming up with awareness campaigns. That's one. But it's just criminal. I am surprised that parties here in this Chamber do not really want to see that possession of hard drugs is simply criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u117	Use is not punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u118	The possession is punishable; use is not punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u119	Are you going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u120	The punishments don't lie either. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als er ...]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u121	Please continue, Mrs. Van der Graaf. You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u122	If on drug websites that advise to go to festivals it is simply said 'it is not maintained', I think that is such bad advice. The government just needs to give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union wants to get rid of the nuisance and the reputation of the Netherlands as a drug country. There are tourists coming here to do drugs. They lead to nuisances. I notice that even in Amsterdam it is no longer taboo to talk about this. The researchers Tops and Tromp also say that it is good to maintain the resident criterion in more places, including in Amsterdam. I would like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to consult with municipalities on the introduction of the resident criterion. Since the introduction of the criterion in 2013, it has been included in the policy in 86 of the 102 coffeeshop municipalities. I ask for a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then human trafficking. We very much welcome the implementation of a motion by the Christian Union and the Labour Party on the use of the extra EUR 10 million to deal with trafficking in human beings, an important priority in our security agenda. The investment in cyberexperts and extra detectives specialising in dealing with trafficking in human beings is urgently needed. Mr. Chairman. There has been a pilot in tackling undermining, in order to be able to identify exploitation early through bank data. I know that researchers would like to carry out a follow-up study on all forms of exploitation, trafficking in human beings, money laundering and corruption. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to offer opportunities for that. Mr President, two more points. I'm calling attention to anti-Semitism. We should never think that's normal. I am thinking of the family in Hippolytushoef, which has been plagued for years by anti-Semitic bullying and violence. With the VVD, the Christian Union has also prepared an amendment to allocate the additional resources for the fight against anti-Semitism in line with the initiative paper of our two parties. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a motion to the Kingdom Relations budget, and I have held it, on child abuse in the Caribbean Netherlands. I would like a response from the Minister of Justice. I will conclude with one more comment, if you will allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u125	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u126	I agree with the questions raised by colleagues who have expressed their concerns about culture within the Ministry of Justice and Security. I too am concerned about that. I would ask for a reflection from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u127	We wholeheartedly support the efforts to combat anti-Semitism. I noticed from the amendment that it was covered by money already earmarked for a campaign against anti-Semitism but apparently not used. Does Mrs Van der Graaf also know why this is the case? I am simply curious about this, because I often miss the momentum in the execution. So why is it that concrete money that was lying there has not so far been used for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u128	I do not really have the answer to that, but we found the same thing. There's money; we have to bet it. That is why we have tabled an amendment to indicate a practical use so that we can quickly make use of the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u129	Of course, all these anti-Semitism plans are great, but how can you open the borders to all new anti-Semites coming in? Of course, that's the real big problem. You can blow money towards it and make plans, with national coordinators and whatever is in it, but as long as you and your party cooperate in importing new hatred of Jews, that's not gonna get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u130	I believe that, as the Netherlands, we should also be aware of the fight against anti-Semitism. We should not pretend it only occurs among the people who enter our country from outside. It's also in our society itself. I have just set the example of the family in Hippolytushoef that has been plagued for decades. Their children suffer from this and the family is now ready to leave their own home. We can't allow that. We always have to stand up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My questions will be addressed to the Secretary of State, since I am going to talk about asylum. In the Volkskrant, but also in the last debate, the Secretary of State has actually set out her ambition again. The Commission believes that the procedure should be speeded up and that the policy of expulsion should be improved. At the same time, I would like to tell her that the influx must also be controlled. I know that the Secretary of State has said a few things about this in the last broadcast of Newsuur, but it does not seem to be getting off the ground. The buses from Moldova show that once again. At the same time, it must come from Europe. The Secretary of State also said that we should actually establish European registration centres, because that is where we need to select the people in terms of probability and low probability. That is where we need to make the fair distribution across Europe happen. Here's what I'm gonna ask her. We can wait a long time until we have that coalition, but is it not time to take a first step with a coalition of the willing, with the people of Europe who are willing to do so? Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if you can get such a group of countries together, a group of countries that say: maybe we should try to make a first selection together with Greece and Italy? We just need to get to European registration centres. The group of Malta, I believe, is now seven countries which have, of course, already taken first steps. The Secretary of State has been there once and then said: I am not in. We think that is a missed opportunity, because the Secretary of State could have continued to talk about this fair distribution of Europe and about such a possible European approach. Why doesn't the Secretary of State move in after all? I understand from the Volkskrant that the Secretary of State is talking about 1,500 invited asylum seekers because of UNHCR quotas. Maybe that was a mistake from the Secretary of State. If that's not the case, we've got 1,000 more. Is the Secretary of State not prepared to examine with the Malta Group whether we can participate in and co-operate with the invitation policy and UNHCR quotas on the Malta plus meeting, as I would like to mention? Mr President, I would like to deal with two other issues very quickly. First, the conversions. D66 and the Christian Union have previously tabled a motion on this matter. We can see that very little is actually going to happen. The re-evaluations do not come off the ground, despite the new working instructions. Can the Secretary of State tell me if there has been any re-evaluation? The recommendations of the WODC on this subject are largely ignored. Even at the pilot in Den Bosch, we can't watch. I hope the Secretary of State will be able to promise that now. Can't we work smarter by the IND? We saw Monday's letter. It says that the target group approach is being adopted. Is it not possible for the Secretary of State to obtain such a target group approach in relation to the Ihbtis and the converts? Mr President, finally, the Van Zwol Committee. The Committee finds it very disappointing that legal aid is not maintained in the initial phase. This goes against the Van Zwol Committee. This goes against not imposing additional burdens on the IND, because the IND staff will have to take over the role of asylum lawyers. Wouldn't the Secretary of State want to revise that? Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that at least the number of removals on which the Chamber has adopted various motions is going to decrease, also for the benefit of the children. I've spoken to children who have had to go through seven or eight primary schools. So that's a profit. However, I would ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to use the case manager not only for complex cases and at the end of the journey, namely if the laissez-passers have already been issued, but also for non-complex cases and therefore at the front. I'd like to hear her response to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u134	I've been in trouble for a second now, I see. Mr. Chairman. With the turnaround of the words Security and Justice, now with Justice first, a bright future for the rule of law was suggested. But it's waiting for it. The water is on the lips of police, prosecutors and the judiciary. Years of austerity have had their impact. Too few staff, too many cases, and there's only work to be done. From all the reports and revelations of recent years, an image of a ministry appears as an Augias stable. Now the Minister for Legal Protection is cutting legal aid and coming forward with a temporary sum just a few days before this debate. On the same day, the Secretary of State for Asylum announced a reduction in legal aid for asylum seekers. So what comes to one bee goes off to the other. Mr. Chairman. I compared the Department of Justice to an Augias barn. Whatever qualities I attach to the Minister of Justice, I do not see in him any Hercules who unorthodoxly cleans up the place. On the contrary, the Minister is being consulted by the wrong advisors. As an example, I would like to mention the way in which the Minister bows to the implementation of the new Arms Act. Then I'm looking at the e-screener. This is a test developed by the Trimbos Institute, TNO and Ipsos, to check whether the applicant or user of a firearm is suitable. If there is little doubt, that test shall give a negative opinion. That is the intention, because the bar must be high. On September 20th, the Supreme Court confirmed that. In his letter of 7 October, the Minister was right behind that: if in doubt, do not catch up, because it concerns firearms. The hunting club came to get foamy story, because many hunters stumble over the test. It is not for me to make statements about the spiritual condition of hunters. I'll leave that to the e-screener. But if one in five gun owners doesn't pass the test, I find that worrying. What I find even more worrying is that the Minister bows immediately. Instead of standing behind the e-screener, which was tested with great care and has been introduced with Kamerwide support, the Minister now joins in the lamentation of the hunters, because only new applicants now have to do the test. I want to know what's going on with the Secretary of State. Why didn't he wait for the law to be reviewed? What was the advice of Trimbos and TNO when the Minister proposed to delete the test for existing cases? Or were the hunters his main advisors? And, very importantly, is the deletion of that test at all in line with the European Firearms Directive? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the undermining crime and, as a result, animal abuse. Organizers of dog fights are tough criminals with ties in the underworld. This often goes hand in hand with drug trafficking, trafficking in women and arms trafficking. Nevertheless, the opportunities for dealing with them remain unused. In 2016, a gang was rolled up that organized dog fights. The surviving dogs were impounded. A few weeks later, the suspects had already purchased new dogs. That's impossible, isn't it? I put questions to the House in August. Why has the Minister not answered them now, three months later? Animal suffering could have been avoided if the perpetrators had immediately been restrained. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, this scum must never keep animals again. But where's the bill that's supposed to settle this? Every time, we get a new delay message. Where is it? The infamous pig farmer who burned down a stable with 20,000 animals in the Netherlands in 2017 and who was recently sentenced to a prison sentence for serious animal abuse in Germany, on top of his professional ban in that country, can still go ahead in the Netherlands. The Party for Animals wants him stopped. I would like to know whether a restraining or self-employed ban on cattle farmers of this calibre, but also on malicious dog dealers, can be included. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you. I call Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you, Mr President. There's a lot of trouble with the Justice Department. It starts with the administration itself, where integrity scandals follow each other. On top of that came the message of a crisis within the National Unity. Can the Justice Department carry out its duties if so much goes wrong internally? Is a big cleaning possible? In any case, I believe that an independent review, as already proposed today, is necessary. Because of time, I have to limit myself. Maybe drug crime is the biggest problem. More and more rural communities fall prey to drug criminals, after southern Netherlands now also Twente. There is a façade economy of money laundering companies. The money is made from drugs. We do not want to live in such a society, with as new lows the shelling of lawyers and even a terrible murder. The Minister responded extensively this month to the twelve-point plan against drug crime. Thank you for examining some of our proposals. I missed a comment on the bodycam for Rotterdam customs officers, a measure of which great impact is to be expected. Unfortunately, the Minister rejects the drug money collection fund, but I will table a motion for this in second term together with the VVD. Luckily, we have judgments that impose severe penalties on drug criminals, but it's not always going well. This summer, a Zaandammer was arrested with seven tons of cash. It's not unthinkable that this was drug money. A settlement of €70,000 was reached by the Public Prosecutor's Office. A 10% payoff. Many entrepreneurs would like to pay such a tax rate. What signal does this send to drug criminals? It has often been mentioned by colleagues today. We were in Sicily, where the mob finally got stuck. And that was done by taking money and possessions earlier. Only if a suspect can explain what he or she has earned fairly, will it be returned. If that fails, the spoils will benefit the community through a special foundation. For example, cars go to the police; I brought a picture of this fine example for the minister. Isn't that what makes you jealous? Houses become neighbourhood centers or schools, and the money is spent on things that are visible to the population. In this way, you will ensure that the citizen no longer stands shoulder-to-shoulder on the sidelines, but becomes enthusiastically fellow explorer. I'd like a response. The 50PLUS Group is pleased that the taser we have advocated is finally coming. The use of the service gun can now be reduced and stress among agents is also expected to decrease. The 50PLUS group argued more than once for at least one police station or police counter per municipality, especially in Ter Apel. We think that is the absolute minimum, but it is only getting worse. The country's gonna be policeless. Is it true that 150 agents from the East Netherlands have recently been deployed to secure judges, officers and lawyers? Is it true that police cells are being shut down in Tiel, Ede, Doetinchem and Deventer for lack of personnel? There will be more vigilantes because there are no police. The vigilante in Lower Betuwe is equipped with all kinds of heavy equipment and even a private command room. Is there any kind of surveillance? How do these developments fit in with the government's vision of the rule of law? The operational strength of the police has increased almost everywhere, with the exception of Zeeland and West Brabant. Does that translate into more blue on the street? Is that measured? Then the appreciation of the police. Is there at last a view of the medal ceremony we advocated to brave agents? It's been promised a lot, but I've never heard of it again. In 2002, the city Marine was initiated in Rotterdam. Meanwhile, the idea has been copied by other municipalities. This is because it has a demonstrable impact on safety, especially compared to the investment. How many municipalities have appointed such a city Marine or city Marines? What role can the government play in encouraging municipalities to appoint such a super official? As far as social law is concerned, I agree with the previous speakers for the sake of clarity. My group supports the amendment. The Minister made a plea for review cases at the Congress of Innocence Europe in Amsterdam. Has there been an amount of €100,000 for review cases? If not, my group, together with the SP, will still be tabling an amendment to that effect. Does the Minister for Legal Protection have any reaction to the 50PLUS proposal to allow the independent Security Research Council to play a role in review cases? The asylum policy. When this Secretary of State took office, she said that, as far as she was concerned, there was an effort obligation on asylum policy, but not an obligation on results. However, before taking office, a motion of 50PLUS had been adopted to ensure that the Marrakesh Pact would reduce irregular migration. The previous Secretary of State assured us that the pact would all be better. It doesn't look like it worked. I'd like a response. However, a sincere compliment on the measure to delete the free lawyer for the first application, but many other questions remain. Is it true that asylum seekers waiting in Ter Apel for their case to be dealt with go on a raid in Amsterdam? Do the rulers agree with the 50PLUS group that this is an unprecedented failure that must be brought to an immediate end? An asylum seeker we receive here under the Refugee Convention, who we give shelter, food and living money and who then picks up here, who, in our opinion, loses the right to asylum. This is important if we want to maintain the support for genuine refugees. This will immediately benefit the lead time. After all, we also have to pay compensation if it takes too long. Madam President. How this asylum policy has gotten so out of hand, I don't know. In Italy, we are dealing with the same European rules as we are, and yet the rule there is: once rejected, remains rejected, unless. Here the rule seems the other way around: you've only been rejected when you've been unsuccessful until the last judge. Why doesn't it work like it does in Italy? I'd like a response. In the district Buitenveldert in Amsterdam, a stay is set up for 70 processed asylum seekers. Many older residents are afraid of the rape by an elderly woman's asylum seeker. She even died of the consequences. The residents will not be heard by the municipal council. My group believes that this is a distressing matter, and it can never be the intention of asylum policy. Can the Secretary of State mean anything here? I agree with what Mrs Van Toorenburg said about sending back faster. That's what I do for short notice. The declaration will form the basis of the rule of law. What is the position with regard to the measures taken by the Minister for Legal Protection to increase the willingness to make a declaration and have the results been achieved? I will come back to the proposal of 50PLUS for a picket service for victim lawyers. Victims who come to report a serious crime are entitled to an attorney, but that is not common knowledge. Last year, the Minister for Legal Protection in the budget said that he would look into whether a picket report would be useful for victims. Can he tell us what's going on now? And then the recurring jihadists, a distressing and extra topical problem. A majority of the Dutch population wants jihadists to be denied access to the Netherlands. Nor does the government want jihadists to come back and not try them here either. Still, it turns out that weirdly enough that's going to happen. Can the Minister explain that? And what is true of the news that the Dutch government would have entered into an agreement with Erdogan about taking back jihadists? The Minister of Justice and Security's letter on returning jihadists does not mention such an agreement. However, we do read about the approach with regard to jihadists, namely border detention, criminal proceedings and expulsion process. That's where I deduce that the trial is going to take place. How many more jihadists can we expect? If it is true that jihadists are brought to justice here, the 50PLUS group states that the process must therefore become a process where justice prevails. Don't believe in the personal approach! Then the unsub's too central. We want the victim to be central. Don't believe in withdrawing the Dutchmanship alone. That's gonna be a legal joust. Don't move into the Netherlands until after the punishment. Make them pay! Do not believe in deradicalisation with a toolkit evidence-based works. There's no evidence that deradicalization works. There's evidence that it doesn't work. Our approach would be at odds with the government's policy. If we do not get out of court in the Netherlands, we want a monster trial, a national war tribunal. It is often said that evidence is difficult to provide because it happened so far away or because the evidence has been destroyed. My group is convinced that these proofs do exist. There are camps full of victims. Those victims were enslaved. They've been raped, they've been resold, their family has been murdered and so on. What do you mean, no evidence? There are countless witnesses who have fallen victim to jihadists. Look them up actively with a team on the scene. The victims must be given the opportunity to testify, even if they come from a long way, and even if it costs a lot of money. It can't be explained that we'll bring the perpetrators here, but not the victims. Find the escaped and liberated jihadists actively. Find them in every hole in the ground. Pick them up and put them in custody. If jihadists are to be tried here, it must be a matter of honor to do it right. If there are war crimes, crimes against humanity or even genocide, they must be investigated to the full. It is evidently important that these terrible crimes should not be swept under the carpet. The spotlight must be on it, so that the world sees what terrible injustice has happened and so that the perpetrators do not go free. If we do the trial in the Netherlands, we must also guarantee the rights of victims. Victims should be entitled to compensation. The unsub's resocialization sometimes gets more attention than the victim's suffering. That must not happen in the trial of potential war criminals. My group will therefore table a motion in the second term requesting that, when the trial takes place here, a plan be drawn up and a budget made available for a large-scale trial in which jihadists are spared no costs or effort to collect evidence and question witnesses. (NL) Mr President, all in all. You weren't in the preliminaries last night. Your colleague did. The Minister of Justice had valuable tips on bullying there. I listened very carefully today to the bullying between the coalition parties. Perhaps the Minister can repeat those tips again tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u138	Madam President, when you see what topics are coming along today, you realize that it is an extremely extensive and complicated ministry. There is such a diversity of subjects, and with core tasks of the government. Enforcement of the law is very much affecting the security of many citizens. I therefore need first of all to express my great appreciation for all the work done by so many employees, but also by these rulers, who are not on their hands and who are able to make progress on all these issues day and sometimes night. At the same time, we also understand the feeling that the department is very large and complicated. What about the controllability of such a large organization? In years to come, there have been some internal problems. Of course, there is another fine annex 'JenV changes' in this budget. But I would like to hear in plain language what, in the opinion of the rulers, has really improved. Mr. Chairman. I often hear the rulers of Justice and Security talking about care. That is right and proper. But I would like to put the spotlight on speed today, so to speak. Very often slowness is not a result of care, but sometimes of too little capacity, too little priority, too little steering at speed. In that case, certain themes are likely to become children. Of course, I'm not referring to the speed of the weed experiment. Unfortunately, the pace has been made. It's an experiment we're not excited about. In July, a delegation from the Dutch police went to Canada to see what experience has been gained with the cultivation and sale of cannabis under government supervision. That report didn't cheer us up. What lessons does the Minister draw from this critical report? Mr. Chairman. We welcome the firm tone of the Minister for Justice and Security in the search for a drug-free society. Those words now need to be translated into action vigorously: tackling drug crime, firmly discouraging drug use, putting an end to the weak culture of tolerance, consistent and firm action against all drug crime that is so acutely and seriously threatening and undermining our rule of law. My question to the Minister is therefore: how do you keep pace with the implementation of all plans? That came back a lot in that look back. Then there was a lot of swell for a while, but after that everything went a little drab again. How do we keep up the pace? Mr. Chairman. We are also missing speed on three issues on which legislation has been announced a long time ago. It's very slow. I am thinking, first of all, of tackling illegal prostitution, where women are being exploited in a horrible way. I say right away that recent steps have been taken. We've talked to the Secretary of State about that before. Very well, but here again the question: how do we keep the finger on the wrist, so that it does not slow down again? Again we see forces at work saying that it is not necessary to make strict rules. I would like to encourage you to keep your back straight and now really quickly come up with new legislation. Mr. Chairman. There is also a lack of speed in the area of family law. I am not referring to the regulation on more parenthood and surrogacy, which is being speeded up and on which I have recently outlined the fundamental concerns of the SGP in general consultation. I call on the Minister not only to put children's interests first with words, but also with deeds and not the wishes of adults. Slowness I can see around the regulations on adoption. More than ten years ago, it was announced that there would be more safeguards in the procedure, such as powers for the Central Authority. Why is this taking so long? The last milestone achieved after about ten years is a policy paper with starting points, I saw. That should really go faster. A good thing is that a committee of inquiry has been set up to investigate what has gone wrong in the past on adoptions. If there are abuses in countries other than those in the commissioning of the Commission, such as recently when Nieuwsuur is broadcast, can I assume that this will also be taken into account by that committee? Mr. Chairman. A third example of legislation that, in our opinion, is too slow is the long-standing bill for the removal of notary costs if spouses want the overall community of goods. When will this bill actually be submitted? Mr. Chairman. I want to put speed in the spotlight today, because it is not a side issue, but an important feature of a good task exercise, to quickly identify, identify, resolve and correct bottlenecks. In this context, we also have concerns about the consequences of privacy rules. Think of the approach to trafficking in human beings. The alarm bells must start ringing if the number of registered victims halves in a few years. What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms to ensure that there is again room for reporting? Privacy considerations also often hinder the proper exchange of information between justice and healthcare institutions, for example around confused persons. In the interrupting debate, I referred to the monitoring report of the Hoekstra Committee. What is going to happen in this respect in concrete terms? I would like to join Mrs Yeşilgöz's questions on privacy rules that stand in the way of the strong fight against organised crime. Mr. Chairman. Anyone reporting a crime or a violation expects quick action. You're right. Why does it often take so long in practice for clarity to come? Even in not too complicated cases, you can see that sometimes it may take a year before it is clear what happens to that report. What do the rulers actually think is a reasonable period of time? For years we have been calling for a firmer approach to anti-Semitism. For example, it is incredibly important that this horrible Hitler greeting, which regularly reappears, is absolutely not tolerated and severely persecuted. Is that really practice now? If citizens are to be prepared to make a declaration, they must be able to rely on the fact that something is actually happening with these declarations. However, there are still countless issues that are eventually dismissed, because they have remained for too long. This is extremely undesirable, especially in cases of sexual harassment, for example, where victims and their surroundings are deeply affected. What possibilities does the Minister see for cleaning up and ensuring sufficient human resources in the Public Prosecutor's Office? Of course, the problems of justice are also known: delays, waiting times. All hands on deck are needed to ensure that the justice system really works at good speed, precisely because that is the quality of law enforcement. Often a long breath is needed to really move forward. Many years ago, the SGP has drawn attention to the approach of virtual child pornography and violent games. Yesterday, the Rathenau Institute presented a report on the evil aspects of virtual reality. They rightly ask that politics does not look away, but provides better protection for society. Is the Minister prepared to take that glove down? Mr. Chairman. I had a bit of tempo as a thread in my contribution. In that context, I also went to see which legislative proposals are pending for a long time in the field of Justice and Security. First of all, I noticed that there were a lot of proposals for initiatives. I think we should look at ourselves as a room. There were also very old legislative proposals from all kinds of parties. What exactly do we do with that? Do we really want to get on with that? Retract it differently. The oldest proposal still pending in this Chamber is in the area of security and justice. This was submitted by Secretary of State Kosto in November 1992. It concerns a simplified bankruptcy procedure. In 2010 another mysterious letter came. An announcement of a withdrawal was then revoked for legal reasons. I don't know what the legal technical reason could be for a pending bill that doesn't happen to anything hanging over the market endlessly. Perhaps that is something that can be carried forward or withdrawn within the framework of pace. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you. I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that the words that the chairman of the SGP Group has just said have been expressed on behalf of the entire group. I see the relief of the rulers and I can imagine. Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise two issues: asylum and migration and the police. I would like to go into the most detailed aspects of the asylum procedure. It appears that in the coming years, the IND will have to pay millions of periodic penalty payments to asylum seekers who are in the process for too long. In 2017, €700,000 in periodic penalty payments were paid. Next year, it's estimated at 17 million. We think that's completely bizarre, completely bizarre. There is no other country in Europe that pays periodic penalty payments to asylum seekers in this way. That's why I have a set of questions. How could that have gone up so fast? How many asylum seekers are we talking about? How much money per asylum seeker is it? And is my information correct that the amount could amount to tens of thousands of euros per asylum seeker? What role do asylum attorneys play in significantly increasing costs? Does the Secretary of State expect further high periodic penalty payments after 2021? And can we not arrange as soon as possible that the Penalty and Appeals Act does not apply to decisions taken under the Foreigner's Act in the event of a failure to decide in time? Then there's another point. How do we ensure that people who are not entitled to asylum leave the Netherlands as soon as possible? A merciful and, at the same time, fair migration policy stands or falls under a well-functioning return practice. I'm glad the Secretary of State is gonna be a little more threatening with forced expulsion. Hopefully that'll encourage voluntary departure. At present, an expulsion must be announced at least two days in advance. It'll be reduced to 36 hours. But why wouldn't you take it back to 24 hours? There is no European obligation or treaty obligation that obliges us to 36 hours. Obtrusive asylum seekers are transferred from hot to hot. That's how you lose track of them. We from the group were recently on a working visit in Kampen. In Kampen, of all places. We had a conversation there about troublesome asylum seekers. Their question? "Can't you make sure that asylum seekers who cause nuisance in that asylum centre near Dronten stay there? 'Cause then we'll have them in the poll. We make deals with local shopkeepers. We know our pappenheimers and we know exactly what will happen if they come in Kampen." There's some kind of neighborhood app there, so to speak, that's gonna alert them. That way, you'll be on their heels, and you'll prevent them from causing any trouble. What does the Secretary of State think of such an approach? Just lick-on-piece, with a solid pedagogical, educational component in it. This is our manners and we would like to pass them on to the guests who are staying in the asylum-seekers' centres. Then there is my final point in the area of migration and asylum. What lessons does the Secretary of State draw from the sturdy inspection report on Lili and Howick? That report states that the Secretary of State wishes to clarify the role of the Return and Departure Service and Nidos. But is the role of these two organisations really so unclear? Or were the tasks actually klip-and-ready, but was it simply not acted upon? Shouldn't the conversation be about that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the police. Given the time I'll limit myself to one big question. The signals from the mayor of Rotterdam about the tasks package, but also about adjacent rural communities, all point in the same direction: there are too few people to be able to carry out the tasks properly. So the point of the police, sufficient police, is a big problem. I know that everything is being done to promote the influx, but we also get the signal that the outflux is running just as fast, even with the new arrivals, because there are all kinds of bumps that make it less attractive to work with the police. What's the Minister gonna do about it? For this is given an enormous urgency, not only in the cities, but also in the countryside. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u141	Thank you. I call Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that, at the start of this cabinet, all rulers were given strict instructions. I think it contains six steps. Step one: If a problem arises in your policy area, do not act. Step two: If MPs ask questions, give as many evasive answers as possible. Step three: if they persist, appoint a committee, preferably with a former minister or a former top official. Step four: come up with new policies that have no connection to the problem identified, in order to create confusion. Step five: Always embrace the results verbally, but do not follow them all up and indicate that a cultural change is needed if necessary. Finally, if all this does not work, use the occasional dysfunction of the Prime Minister's memory. Mr. Chairman. Ignoring is forward-looking when I sometimes look at how this cabinet handles the plans. In the meantime, farmers, citizens, outsiders and builders can cook in their own soup or occupy the Malieveld, where some of the same politicians who caused the problems also confirm them in their anger. Whether it's dealing with nitrogen, the scandalous threat of reductions in pensions, the bankruptcy of hospitals or the illegal and unlawful action of the Tax Administration and even the moral leadership in the black-and-white debate, it's all the same way of working. We're also seeing this in Justice and Security. Problems with justice. The squeezed, subsidised legal aid. The dreary approach of IS fighters and their children. The hopeless backwardness of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The manipulation by WODC officials. And the understaffing and thus redistribution of poverty in police capacity. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the committees are working like mushrooms: Donner Committee, Van Zwol Committee, Van der Meer Committee, Remkes Committee, Van Rijn Committee, Fokkens Committee. Luckily, not everyone steals this M.O. The calendar for demonstrations on the Malieveld is already running up nicely. Lawyers and doctors are already eager and I think we have far from satisfied the farmers and the builders. Mr. Chairman. That a cabinet makes difficult choices, I understand that, and certainly in times of economic headwinds. But we have had money on the budget for years now. There are billions of euros coming into the government's wallet more than budgeting and so they're just wrong choices. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction to my work, which is quite optimistic, I will deal with a number of important issues raised by the Ministry of Justice and Security. I start with the children, because they have the future. It's an historic day today. Thirty years ago, on 20 November 1989, world leaders concluded the Convention on the Rights of the Child, unanimously adopted by the United Nations and ratified by 196 countries. What's in it? It recognises the civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of children, is legally binding and has helped to change children's lives around the world. If we know that, then the contrast with how we deal with children of IS travellers is very large. So much so that a Dutch judge explained to the cabinet that children are not responsible for the behaviour of their parents, however serious they may be, and that the Netherlands should therefore endeavour to retrieve 56 young Dutch children from IS supporters from Syrian camps, where they eat moldy bread, if that is already available, and where they suffer from diseases. Mr. Chairman. These children are all under 12 and some are only a few months old. I must honestly say that the VVD was there when the chickens were there to greedy with the statement: we do not want these toddlers; their parents are wrong, then so are they. Some kind of original sin. That's the hard line of the VVD. That populist sound fits perfectly with popular sentiment and is perfectly expressed by the MPs. Honestly, rarely see someone with so much ease and flexibility dehumanize IS babies and suckers by constantly identifying them with their parents' atrocities. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before and I repeat the words of Kees van den Bos of Utrecht University, who said the following at a hearing on terrorism: we must stop saying 'we do not want them so they do not come' and 'we do not want them, but they come and we see them coming'. How does the Minister deal with the judge's ruling and what efforts is he going to make to bring back the 56 children? Mr. Chairman. The national police. Let me begin by expressing my gratitude, as so often, to all the agents, but also to people working in the police office, who sometimes do their utmost every day at risk for their own lives to keep our country safe. With the enormous task and responsibility for the safety of Dutch citizens, it is important that this body receives the attention and resources it deserves. The police are crying out to the Chamber about the limited police capacity. At the end of last month, we saw twelve mayors in a letter of parliament saying the alarm clock about the under-staffing of the police, the prosecution and the justice system. They begged for structural measures to deal with human trafficking and cybercrime, among other things. Agents who are supposed to guarantee the security of citizens on a daily basis are now being deployed to tackle organised crime. Actually, as some of those mayors say, the minister is redistributing poverty. 'Cause is there really gonna be capacity? Or is it about less blue coming on the streets, as the Mayor of Rotterdam writes? Last week, the Minister replied that extra capacity cannot be regulated, I understand that too, and that, as a result, uncomfortable choices have to be made. I ask the Minister: where is this going? How many uncomfortable choices will follow? Does the Minister see that the problem begins with the recruitment and selection of police officers at the Police Academy? Are there enough places to train these people? Did enough start on time? Mr. Chairman. A downside of the police is that we also see abuses, such as sexual harassment, discrimination and exclusion. Research has shown that the Dutch police use disproportionately the right to stop and search for members of minority groups, so-called ethnic profiling. It was said that that problem would be solved using the MEOS app. According to the police, that's the way to stop it. But the effectiveness of this method is far from satisfactory. Not only are the violent uses not yet clearly recorded by all units, but also the collection and analysis of data is very complicated. I note that up to now there is no instrument of measurement that can map the extent of ethnic profiling. I have already said it a few times: how can this minister make policy, how can this minister claim that it is going in the right direction if he cannot measure, not measure, and therefore does not know at all how effective the measuring instrument is? Mr. Chairman. It's 11:58 a.m. when the NRC reports last Monday about the crisis of confidence in the National Unity. Cops complain about boyfriend politics, look-away behavior, abuse of power, cheating with declarations and discrimination. That's another low point. Like the police unions, the DENK Group wants the Security Research Council or the Justice and Security Inspectorate to lead an investigation. Mr. Chairman. Then something about the power surge weapon. In the letter, the Minister states that the power surge weapon can cause people to back off. The minister talks about filling the hole between the bat and the pepper spray. Despite putting the security of both the agent and the citizen first, I do not see it as a solution at the moment to add another dangerous substance to the agent's equipment. Because this weapon is just dangerous. The electrical wiring drills into the body, grabs, causes burns and may only be removed by a medical expert. It is a violent procedure that can cause not only a lot of psychological, but also physical stress. The Minister refers in his letter to an investigation full of contradictions. That study was based on studies that looked primarily at cardiac and arrhythmias. It was therefore not an examination of all the consequences of taser use. The health effects are not all well mapped. In addition, the studies were conducted on healthy subjects in small samples in a controlled setting with people who were frequently trained before entering the trial. The taser that will be used has not been tested, because in a few years there will be a new version. I also note that the Minister's commitment to share the research results of the deployment of the power surge weapon in the regions of Amersfoort, Zwolle and Rotterdam is not met with me. I asked because I wanted to know if there was a correlation between using a power surge weapon in a pilot and reducing the violence against cops. I can't get an answer to that. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mrs Broekers-Knol, had already prepared for her retirement, but decided to accept this difficult task. I think in all honesty, double loss. The Secretary of State turns it into a game with the IND and misses her pension awarded by everyone. At the moment 11,000 asylum seekers are waiting for an asylum procedure. With a large shortage of asylum seekers' centres and staff, the problems do not seem to be getting any bigger. But I think it could be worse. Despite the fact that the Van Zwol Committee advised one of those committees that I came up with at the beginning, the Secretary of State strongly advised not to interfere with legal aid, the Secretary of State still does so. Why is she ignoring the advice of that committee? In this way, the VVD deliberately destroys an asylum procedure that many countries can take as an example. Because the asylum procedure is the fastest in the Netherlands, and that is because of the integrated legal aid that these asylum seekers have been receiving from the very beginning. There is no adequate justification and no justification for the recasting of the procedure. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to reconsider her plans, despite the fact that the only reason for implementing them is that they are in the government agreement, given the extremely disastrous consequences for asylum policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u143	I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr. Chairman. There was plenty of time to think about how this house looks at the state of the country, how the state of law is with the country. I'd like to say a few words about that. But the things that citizens have to deal with in practice are persistent crime and asylum issues. Not a word of enlightenment has been said about that. It is noted that it does not work as it had been hoped that it would. And that is also the undercurrent, for the time being it will not happen that there will be any relief in those areas. Here and there the hours are filled with debates about where the bag of money X can best end up, and how it is done with bag of Y and how it should be spent. This is how the ritual takes place and from this house in this composition nothing will change for the better. I'll start with a few perhaps grumpy notes. Although, the explanatory memorandum in the budgetary states is read as a textbook on ethical behaviour and job satisfaction; true. When you read that memo, you get the impression that every day on the work floor at the Justice Department the sun rises. And damn, here comes Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u145	I'd like to know from Mr. Hiddema what we can expect from him. 'Cause if it's just gonna be a grumpy repertoire, I'm gonna do something else. 'Cause we're not sitting here just to be beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u146	That will be for the rest of the composition of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u147	No, but there's a pattern in it. Every time Mr Hiddema speaks here, he starts with: it's all nonsense here, I don't like it, I'm just wasting my time here, there's no relief. I want a serious debate with serious suggestions. Shall we start with that instead of with all sorts of grumpy considerations and presumptuous behavior? That would be very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u148	It is beginning to seem that Mrs. Kuik has a lot to do outside this house, because I have barely a minute left. I'd be very sorry if she of all people disappeared from my vision. Because I started merry lyrics, but with her appearance went all the way up the sun. Ma'am looks so bright...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u149	Look, that's a compliment. With a nice red dress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u150	That's what it's meant to be. Please don't leave. I'll look more in that direction, too. In any case, I say to you: if I read that statement, then every day on the floor of the Ministry of Justice the sun rises; one goes whistling to his work, one works for the good, it is a meaningful daily use. On the work floor, as I understand from the pleading, it goes hand in hand. That's what you get to hear. Everything that is viewed, all processes: everything is inclusive. One always works proactively, without exception. Every once in a while, that word comes out. Proactive! People are also very satisfied with the working relationship between them. At the back of the pleading are enthusiastic employee reports. Without exception, they inspire each other there that it has a nature. It's really expensive to read all this. However, the krona is still very proud of the particular degree of transparency that is being exercised on this ministry day in and day out. I've tried to tarnish how often that word occurs. It's "transparent" here and "transparent" there. It goes from somewhere to nowhere, but when the word "transparent" falls, it seems to fall into good ground. That word passes through in the midst of all this woeful policy jargon so often, you'd think it had to cover something up. Perhaps a lack of transparency, because nowhere in these reports do you find that openness in this ministry has been forced to do so because of the WOB and because of the threat of interim measures. That's what opened the doors. The past year was not characterised by spontaneous transparent behaviour and the expression of frankness, also towards this house, on the part of this ministry. But in any case, transparency is a priority. However, I would like to give some clarification on this transparency. I think it's time for a state-of-the-art moment. We must also look at the situation with regard to the rule of law in the Netherlands, especially where politics can be held responsible for certain matters. I call it the Wilders Process. I'd like to have an update on that from the D.A.'s office. Because the Ministry's involvement in the course of that process has proved to be rather obvious, and that is something that the government and the Minister of Justice have to look at. I'd say it's time to get rid of some dirt. This has proved to be a political process. It deserves our attention in this house. We must be able to confront the Minister with the course of this matter, as it is now taking place. There's still time, because the trial's still going on. This has clearly proved to be a political process. This is the biggest miscarriage, one of the biggest miscarriages, you can say, in the modern Dutch criminal history. It is unworthy of a defenceable rule of law. I'm giving an update on my side. The declarations had already been set up and facilitated by the public authorities. The parade: in columns. Rulers first, wallowing in self-esteem. Declaration offices were open until late hours. Pre-printed declaration paper ashes were already ready. The ordinary citizen who wants to go to the police station with his broken car window looks out his eyes when he reads this report. The desks were open until extra late in the evening. Well, why don't you get over that? It was lacking that Claudia de Breij accompanied the parades musically. The choice of persecution has also proved to be clearly political. The PvdA politicians of any stature Spekman and Samsom have escaped the dance. While Wilders merely demographically expressed a wish, "less, less," "more, more," it was Mr Spekman who said that you should humiliate Moroccans, because that would be the only thing that helps in that particular, Moroccan, environment. Mr. Samsom made it even furier. He said that the Moroccans by their genes, their genetic build-up, are simply destined to end up higher on the crime ladder. That's a big deal. Those are really racist insulting remarks. That's a lot different than "more, more" and "less, less." This is why I would remind you that the Ministry of Justice has indeed acted as a driving force in this prosecution. That M.O. didn't come out. This has not come out in the way of spontaneous transparency. RTL documents were responsible for this. What happened from the Ministry? That's for sure now. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's If you now look back on that ongoing process from the point of view of the situation, you have to include this. Those documents contain a document dated 16 September 2014. In it, ministry officials discuss the conduct of the process. They're discussing the possible defense defense defense defense defenses. Then one official says to another: I will pass on the points you mention to the colleague of the prosecution. Straight from the Ministry to the D.A.'s office. Then Minister Opstelten receives a notice of office from the D.A. which also mentions the names Spekman and Samsom. For they already see the mood hanging: if Samsom or Spekman is called from the side of the defense, that is not pleasant. In that draft notice from the D.A.'s office, those names do appear. And then what happens? Those names are brushed away after consultation of Bolhaar and an official of the Ministry. The official doesn't think it's useful to leave it in there, because that's what the defense is up to. Well, what else do you want? Then it goes on with ministry officials e-mailing each other. And what do they say? They say they'd like to see the officer's requisition in the Wilders trial in advance. They'd like it in advance. Because, they say, "then you and X can" "that will also be an official; you don't know "fleetmen and where useful comments pass" to the state attorney, of course. How do you want it? I know the trial's still going on. The judge can do anything with it. But what I would be so happy about is if this minister, with this information, with which he can work, and with the understanding that he can obtain this data, could come to the understanding that it can no longer be done and that he must do something about it. I'll make an appeal to the Minister. He's got clean hands. He has nothing to do with this conspiracy, to put it that way. They're his predecessors. He can be dragged into it if there is a lot to cover up again.You never know that and then he has become responsible. But with the conspiracy I'm talking about, this minister has nothing to do with it. I'd say brush away this shame stain. This persecution does not serve any purpose, is totally inappropriate. So what can the Minister do? That's the question. Now to the D.A., to his D.A., to the attorney general in question, say, "Stop this. Pray your own inadmissibility. Then we will see what the judge does with it, but at least an act of satisfaction has been made from this government: the matter as it was at the time does not deserve a beauty prize."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u151	At the close of this long day I would like to ask Mr Hiddema to give me a hand. We have had an arrangement of work here on several occasions. I do not think that a request for a debate is allowed here at the end of the day. There have been letters about it before. Where do you want to go in this regard? It is almost reminiscent of a question in the scheme to debate it. Can you give me some perspective by indicating what this is going to lead to, also in connection with our presence here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u152	I have nothing to do with it other than to give consideration to the Minister, by means of a question addressed to him, in order to ensure that in his power he holds that the prosecution of Mr Wilders is still stopped by an instruction to the Public Prosecutor because of the fact that it is a political process. That was it in the beginning; all the signals pointed to it. That's it because of the Ministry's involvement along the way of the three points I mentioned to you. But there are others, because the charge was finally brought by the input of officials from the Justice Department. Those savages have added to the "less, less": "we will arrange that." But I'm gonna leave that out of the question. Here's what's settled. So from the Ministry has been steering towards the D.A.'s office. That's not appropriate. The persecution that is taking place now does not serve any reasonable purpose. It's a piece of legal inequality. There, in box K, is the Minister with clean hands; finally we have one. It can still save what's to be saved and order the case to be stopped. What are we supposed to do with general consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u153	I know from the courtroom the technique of "repeated is the power of our message." If I understand you correctly, the point is that you would like to call on the Minister to put an end to this right now. That's your call. At least I mean 'an end to the persecution of Mr Wilders', not 'the Minister puts an end to it'. Is that the issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u154	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u155	Then it's clear to me. Then I don't have to interrupt any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u156	The Minister can give the D.A. a lead. In this case, it contains an instruction on what your former colleagues will be in The Hague to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u157	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u158	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u159	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u160	Yes, I will. I think that was one moment in the state of law, which also refers to this budget. Then there's a matter, a very special one, and that's Mr. Harbers' issue. He sent us a letter, which we almost received at the time of his resignation. It has become clear in this case that thanks to a conspiracy of silence, he was sent into the woods by his own officials. That's as ready as a whistle. They did not want this categorization to have "attempted murder," "kill" and "six cases" because it would lead to questions and comments. The worst cases have been muffled away. Mr. Harbers still wanted to protect his officials then, you don't know it, and then here at the hearing, on the day he resigned, said that it didn't happen with any deliberate intent. That was, of course, the case. That's already apparent from Mr. Harbers' own answer. But he thought, "I don't want those officials anymore. I'm getting out of here. I never want to have anything to do with that again." But what happened is that Mr. Harbers was deceived by his own officials, by a conspiracy of silence. Once again there was talk of civil servants who are self-sufficient in politics. That's what they did here. Now I would like to ask the Minister: what happens to officials like this? If it costs a ruler the head, the deception is obvious and the intention is to mislead us, the country and the representatives of the people, by burying serious cases of abuse by asylum seekers at the bottom of the list of 'other', what happens then? Does that have any human consequences? Anybody notice anything about that? I'm always surprised about that. You'll never hear from me again. But it's a big deal. I always see transparency from here to gunter. Then I can also ask what happens on the work floor, where it is so pleasant to stay, with people of this calibre, who have delivered these areas? Do we ever notice that again? Then we're going to the asylum industry, to put it that way. That's a hopeless thing, too. Failure. No one is talking anymore about the ideas of the peaceful, peaceful and organized people, let me just call him that, Mr President, and appropriate citizens about what an appropriate asylum policy should be. The appropriate, orderly citizen, who has to pay for everything, simply wants an asylum seeker who has fled. He doesn't have to have the shrapnel on his neck at the IND, or bullet holes in his overcoat, but he has to come up here with a good flight story. The fact that you're such a person's protection and cherishment does a man's good. You'd like that. Far journeys are made here in the Chamber, such as to Italy or even to Bolivia. I didn't notice. How much does it cost? Orienting yourself in the workplace can be easy, you know. Go to an azc. Talk to people from refugee aid. Why don't you talk to the IND guys? They don't want their names out in the open too often. You hear what you can expect. Most of the flight stories are ruse and deception. We're being taken by the nose. They're not real refugees. They're economic refugees. Why don't people want to hear that? Everyone who came here used to be called "refugee." If that sauce went over, you could separate the "refugee" from the "refugee" with all the misbehaviour that it brought about as well, because he was "refugee." That's gonna take a little bit off. The fact that the economic motives now play a role and are decisive is also generally recognised. But why don't you go talk to the people in the field? You're being taken by the nose, we're all being taken by the nose. That's just the core business. I'd probably do it in those circumstances, too. You're buying everything. Once you get here, you'll be fine. You get a roof over your head and you get a fee. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Well, I guess we'll just have to see how you're going to process your time around here. Because that's what happens. It is now six months since Mrs Broekers-Knol was appointed Secretary of State for Justice and Security, with one of our party's priorities: asylum and immigration policy. When the new Secretary of State took office, we asked her the shirt of the body about how she intended to tackle the failing asylum policy. To our surprise, according to the Secretary of State, there was no question of a failing asylum policy at all. The asylum policy was called "solid"............................................................................................................................................................................................. In the first half of 2019, the number of immigrants increased to nearly 113,000. Population growth is disturbing. Without migration, the population of the Netherlands would shrink, but immigration will give us a city the size of Leiden every year. How long can our welfare state handle that? How long can our social cohesion endure all this? Those are legitimate questions, aren't they? We'll be back here next year. Then we've got another town like Leiden. And then we're fighting each other over procedures again and over bags of money. However, there is no sign of measures that will ensure that, in three years' time, we will finally have a solution that has vision behind it, and to which you can see that there will be an end to the progress that is now leading us to destruction. While the indigenous population is shrinking due to the low birth rate, the population from non-Western countries is growing explosively. According to the United Nations forecasts, our country will have 24 million inhabitants at the end of the century if policies remain unchanged. The government is way too lax about this. What is the government's long-term view of this? Well, there isn't; we're done with that. Last week it was announced that the maximum speed would be reduced because this would save the nature of the Netherlands. But what good is such a short-sighted measure if the population has grown by 50%? Don't newcomers all want to live somewhere else and also drive? The housing shortage is already enormous, the cost of care is rising to unprecedented levels, the classes in education are growing and in all sectors there is screaming murder and fire. Such fundamental problems do not call for short-sighted measures but for a vision and a fundamental solution, which is now completely lacking. Just one more detail. Our society, including the composition of our population, is changing dramatically as a result of mass immigration. Islamisation is progressing at a rapid rate, which is in line with immigration. It is visible everywhere and it has the effect of saying that it is not getting any more pleasant in this country. Let me put it simply. It is a culture of complaining and claiming, demanding more and more space for one's own supposed cultural and religious dignity. And that requires adaptation and submission, one considers. So it's not gonna be any more fun. I don't know if this finding is sociologically justified, but this is what it is. The asylum chain is completely clogged. Due to the growing number of asylum seekers from Syria in particular and their follow-up family members, the asylum seekers' centres are crowded. The COA is eager to find new shelters. The waiting times at the IND are so high that the service will have to pay an estimated €17 million in periodic penalty payments next year. Do you really have to do that? In the Ministry, they've already gotten very used to rowing against the current. A lot of things can't happen, you're tied up and you have coalition agreements. But when you read this, you think: over my corpse; that will not happen; I invent a trick; they do not get it? You're being taken by the nose, because most of where that 17 million goes is trickery and deception. And then they get the money. Then you're gonna try everything to make sure that party doesn't happen, right? If anyone comes up with a claim, I'm gonna take a quick look at his file. If it turns out he's completely out of the question or comes up with a story, then I'll tell him he's chasing an illusion and that those pennies aren't coming to him. Looks like it to me. There's got to be something to come up with. You can't sell this to the people, can you? In a situation of force majeure, you are forced by the procedures they stack and prolong themselves, and then there is a tap on it and there is money leaking out of it. You can't digest that, can you? Obtrusive and criminal asylum seekers are hardly addressed. Almost a quarter of asylum seekers from Libya, Morocco and Algeria are in contact with the police. The employees of the azc's have sounded the alarm clock. They don't feel safe at work anymore. The police are suffering from major shortages and are no longer able to cope with the pressure. The rack's completely out. We have the report from the Van Zwol Committee and we have a report from Mrs Rhodia Maas. That's the former headmistress of the Service Return and Departure. I read both of them. A lot of comments have been made by Mr Van Zwol about how difficult it is and how it could be improved. But they both say in an almost lost moment: if those asylum seekers want to go back, then nothing is wrong. They notice that. They didn't think so. Then we say to the Secretary of State: that is very simple. Then you have to lock up the asylum seekers in question, if they cause nuisance and go criminally wrong. It's simple, because they'd want to leave voluntarily. Then they have a choice. Van Zwol says they'll leave if they have a choice. And so does Mrs. Rhodia Maas. That's what I'd do. Do I have to sit under lock and key here in the Netherlands or can I go to Morocco when I say I want to leave? Then you have a choice to make. Now the choice is offered. Then they say "thank you" and nothing happens. I call it a failure of the rule of law. A lot of people are foaming the streets in Amsterdam. They all commit crimes: all destruction, all threats and all theft. Those are all facts on which remand is made. It's got real pre-trial custody on it. They'll never get it. Why not? Because they are never addressed as individuals on their individual offences. They are always placed here and there as a group and taken away to turn away from the emmer. But they'll never be addressed, like you and me and everyone else here, on their own responsibility as soon as they commit a crime. That's not gonna happen. And that's the way to get them to leave, because then they'll be locked up. It's possible. They can be in remand, because all those facts I mentioned to you are all ripe for remand. The judge can impose that. Mr. Voordewind, he's not there anymore. I've told you that before in this room. He thought it was a good plan and he filed a motion. In that motion, he asked whether the Minister or the Secretary of State would be able to ensure that the prosecution was more often required to be remanded. Then you have to prosecute someone first. That hardly happens, but well, then but the provisional attachment. Madam Secretary of State will remember that Mr Voordewind tabled that motion. He liked my plan so much that he put a motion on it himself. I was so honored that I even signed the motion. That motion has become known to the Secretary of State and Mr Voordewind asked again during a general consultation: what do you think of my motion to apply provisional custody? Then, on 1 July 2019, the State Secretary's answer was a jewel of simplicity. Let me just call it that. She writes: "In the event of a serious suspicion that the defendant has committed a criminal offence which is punishable by law for four years or more, the prosecution may request the defendant's remand from the court commissioner." Gee, that's what the law says. She also writes: "The judge-supervisor checks, among other things, whether there is a flight risk, a recurrent risk or any other ground for pre-trial detention. The claim and assignment of pre-trial detention are tasks legally assigned to the prosecution and the court commissioner respectively." That's a whole school message, but it fits like a sore finger. But we all knew that. But now it is, because the Secretary of State says: "In this way, using these resources is an existing part of tackling criminal asylum seekers." No, that doesn't promote it. It's a cure. It's in the law, but it's not being applied. The Secretary of State is asked to ensure that it is applied. And what does the Secretary of State do? She gets a law book and gives a whole schoolly explanation of what can be done. It's already in the law that this can be done. And then she says, "This has been carried out on the motion of Mr Voordewind." So no! The Secretary of State has only agreed that Mr. Voordewind in my wake has not sold any nonsense and that remand would indeed be possible under the law. But there is no answer to Mr Voordewind's question as to whether that can be applied, please. Hence my question again to the Secretary of State. Does she now understand what Mr Voordewind meant by his motion, what is in it and what is in it? And then my question just one more time: doesn't she think that it can be a very accurate way of getting people out of here with the Code of Criminal Law in its hand, forcing them to choose and making them disappear? Isn't that ideal? I'm sure judges would like to go along with that. There's got to be a ground for remand. Mrs. Secretary of State wrote the same thing. Danger of repetition is a ground. Well, that's very big for these types, because they have no business other than just stealing and hobbling, stealing. So the danger of repetition is enormous. Well, then leave it alone until the danger of repetition drops and disappears, because the suspect, the asylum seeker in question, says: the danger is gone, because I'm leaving. Well, then you've got him gone. Madam President, are they talking to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u161	Yeah, but you don't have to respond, otherwise they're gonna have to stand here on the interrupting microphone. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u162	Well, it was just a simple question. I'll split it up in threes. Is the scope of the motion clear? Is the content clear? And does the Secretary of State see any possibility of instructing the State's Attorney's Office in such a way that with those possibilities in his hand it locks people up and sends them away? They have to make their own choices, of course. And then there's another question. What is the situation with regard to the treatment, amendment or revision of the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees? An old, totally out-of-date treaty, which we are still stuck with and which is being taken into account in refugee procedures. According to the Rutte III coalition agreement, it would be considered whether this could be revised. But the journalist Syp Wynia, who, as you may know, has called the Ministry to see how progress has been with this case, writes that it is expanding along the path of all kinds of research angles and holes. It could take a while. So that's why I'm asking: how's it going? Does the government see any possibility of revising that refugee treaty? Because that still looks at refugees who were wandering through Europe at the time, after the war, and certainly not at the current flows coming towards us from Africa and Asia. Now let's talk about undermining. It's become a phenomenon of awesome since a few months ago. Undermining here, undermining there. The concept didn't mean much to me. It has also become a public defender on the part of the authorities. Anyone who represents something in crimefighting the Netherlands is now in a talk program with his most manly uniform, looks straight ahead and has discovered a new monster called undermining, a criminal monster, with all tentacles, yes. That looks very threatening. That's how it's brought to people. Non-desecrated people can think: hey, undermining, since when does that exist? They've never heard of it either. The Netherlands hopes: if these people, what we talk to them a little bit anxiously, think that undermining is something very bad and that it is only recently emerging, and see that we are dealing with this undermining very powerfully, then perhaps the classic malheur associated with our classic detection methods, which are not very successful, will disappear a bit out of sight. Maybe people are thinking, "Well, if we have that octopus by the head and the tentacles are off, we're done with everything." I sometimes think this is the idea. It's a new phenomenon, but it doesn't exist. No one gets word from the judge: sir, you're going to jail for ten years because of undermining. It doesn't exist at all! If you want to fight that octopus, that snake or that undermining ghost or monster, you'll encounter the same types that have been hunted for years and you can't get them. You have to do the exact same thing. This method only works for a while, but it's nothing at all. And then the tentacles in the upper world. Where? I've never seen one. In Amsterdam, an alderman seems to have had contacts. That's it. That was a long time ago. Do we ever meet a driver who's been infiltrated in our circles along the way of the undermining, with our kind of people? I'll look around, too. You won't see them. That's bullshit! It's just money laundering, that's what it is. It is diverting attention from the failing search policy that has been pursued so far. It's a ghostly form of introduction, a strawboard doll and then all look very solemnly, in the most beautiful suit or martial uniform, who can kick it hardest. People are being taken by the nose again. That's it. Tentacles in the upper world: may I hear from the minister if he knows one? Then the billions of assets. I've never seen them before. And then the threatened mayors, then we have pretty much had the practical examples. Yeah, I've heard mayors say they've been threatened. But I've never seen anyone in court convicted of threatening the mayor. A few simple souls in a small village may have done that, but not a type from the undermining world. Never seen it! That is only brought among the people and everyone nods along with it and looks at the guardian of authority who says "paal and perk" and "new measures." Oh, it's going the right way, I guess. If we're in control of that monster, we've got them! No, you never had them, and that's not how you get them. 'Cause there's no crime undermining at all. There's no such thing. So you will have to go further in the classic way and you will have to say with classic arguments why the search is not progressing. And that all the millions for undermining and whatever do not contribute at all to the detection of a new kind of crime. Because there isn't. People get freaked out by undermining. And the fate of my poor colleague has contributed to that. Something had to be done, something had to be done manly. Rightly so, but do not say that this is an example of the continuing undermining. That's bullshit. People in the world of drugs, because that's what we're talking about, pulling the strings, don't need government servants at all. No need at all. They don't look for investments that make them friends with mayors or people who have a leading position within the circle of our kind of people. They don't even have the patience for that. They can't even write a letter. You don't have to. It's all taking way too long. If you want to know where the ghost money is, where all the billions are, you should go on a mission. I'd like to come with you. I've already missed Bolivia and Italy's been drilled through my nose. No one's telling me anything either. I want to go to Morocco with the Minister. Take a few people from the landlady. Look what's in there. But don't come up with stories that we're on the right track once we've turned the undermining types upside down. Nonsense. Undermining types? They are the classic types: drug traffickers, violent bombers, behaviors and money launderers. That's it. Us, your talk about the importance of combating undermining is intelligence and money laundering. It diverts attention from failing policies against real money launderers, because that has never been possible. That doesn't get anywhere along the classic road. Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u163	Still, if you want to fight the undermining, you have to fight criminal organizations. It is still the case that four out of five organisations are not even prosecuted. Read the police reports. They don't have any resources. They won't. A mer à boire of criminal offences and investigations can be drawn from that. I told the Minister, at least look for weapons. I interrupted the minister once and told him: you don't have to investigate those four criminal cases that are on the shelf by magicalizing all the suspects, because then you'll be busy for months. In no time at all, you'll be in a hellish trial with ten lawyers, 20 witnesses and 15 suspects. Such a process drags on. At least Hark through it to see if there's a weapons license. That was at the time of the liquidations. It's full of guns, and you'll find them in those files. Hark through it. What did the Minister say? Every file on the shelf is first snooped by an army officer. I cannot ask Mr Van Dam anything, but I would like to ask the Minister again on this occasion whether he still supports that statement. All right, that's the undermining so far. How will the undermining be combated? With 100 million incidentals. I'm talking to people from this environment who are in charge of tracking, and mayors who are calling me. Yeah, yeah, They say, "Mr. Hiddema, that's nothing." If it's not structural, it's nothing. We can't do anything with it. I say I don't have the money. There's not much else I can do with it. But in the circles where this money should bring relief, the opinion is that it doesn't solve anything. That is the Minister's prize rabbit, the 100 million and the 10 million over it. But it's nothing! And it goes to a goal that doesn't exist. You give the money, Minister, just to fight against crimes that have been fought for a long time and in the hope that it will happen. The mayor can shut down buildings, I read. And then what? Is that a measure whereby the bad guy thinks shudderingly: I'm sorry; I'm never gonna do this again, because my property is closing down. Oh, come on. Nonsense. Just in front of the stage. And what about those people sitting in the same building with that crook? After all, this crook may be in that building too, or there has been a shot at the building, because then it may be closed as well, according to the Minister. Where are these people supposed to go? Is there going to be a detention camp for all those people being evicted from their homes? They gotta have houses, right? What's the point? It's not gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr. Hiddema, you have two minutes to speak, unless you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u165	Two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u166	Yes, you've given up 40 minutes. But before you proceed, Mr Van Dam has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u167	What does Mr Hiddema have to say about the term "undermining"? I was thinking, what have I had that with before? In fact, I have also mentioned the term 'party cartel'. That is also one of those concepts that is stuck up somewhere, but which actually has no substance. At the same time, I believe that this means something else. Perhaps the term 'undermining' also refers to a certain movement. Because I have a problem with how Mr Hiddema points out, for example, that attack on that lawyer. He says there's no such thing as undermining.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u168	I wouldn't risk it at all. I don't know about the fork.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u169	I'm experiencing such an attack on a lawyer as more than just an assassination attempt. That's more than that, isn't it? That is an attack on our rule of law, and that concept of 'undermining' also indicates a bit. Does he want to put that into perspective? Isn't there? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u170	I don't even think it's appropriate to make gradations in murders that are committed. Every human life is precious to me, and if anyone gets slaughtered just like that, even a lawyer, that's hideous. Simple as that! Then when you confront people with "what do you think about that?', You've come to the wrong place with me. Then you have to do your best to show enough that you hate it, because otherwise it is not good again. Then you've come to the wrong place with me, because of course that's terrible. Of course that's bizarre. Of course that's bizarre, but I don't know how the fork is. You should know that, too. I'm not going to speculate on the possible cause of my former colleague's death. I'm not gonna do that! The fact that it undermines trust in the rule of law and that it affects fellow lawyers who are now also under protection does indeed undermine the minds of all those who touch it. Absolutely! Absolutely, but that's a lot different from the undermining ghost. We are faced with money launderers, perpetrators of violence, benefactors and so on. With tentacles in the upper world, that has nothing to do with this assassination attempt, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u171	I suggest you go to a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u172	Yeah, I'm gonna do that. But I can't be entirely of service to Mr. Van Dam, because then I'm tempted to speculate on the cause of a colleague's murder. I don't think about it; I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u173	No, you made that clear. Mr. Van Dam, you're standing there, but I'm getting all kinds of signals that everyone is actually over the number of interruptions. If I allow this, others want to interrupt again. I would ask Mr Hiddema to continue his speech. Tomorrow's the second term. Then perhaps you could ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u174	In any case, from a government perspective...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u175	Mr. Van Dam. You're not asking any more questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u176	No, I won't ask a question to meet you, but I think this is a very important point. Almost all parties in the Chamber and in society see this undermining and Mr. Hiddema has every right to do so in relation to the point of undermining. That is why I would like to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u177	Yes, but this was somehow a comment to Mr Hiddema. Tomorrow you'll have fewer interruptions, agreed upon. Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u178	There you go again. That's the way it's going, and that's as fake as the pimps. I am now being put on the spot that, by way of derogation from the rest of the honourable Members of Parliament, I would take the murder of a colleague less seriously. So that's not true, Mr. Van Dam, no way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u179	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u180	I also do not use that murder to scare people with ghost stories, to hide the fact that the people you want to fight, who are behind those ghost stories, could have been fought long ago and that the failing detection might have led to it, and now I'm being fake that these kinds of undermining attacks are taking place. That's a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u182	Then, of course, the image will tilt for a while. Well, in any case, the government is acting against undermining. How? 100 million against it. The mayor can shut down buildings. Useless. And a ban on the outlaw motorgangs also seems to bring a lot of good. It's a hell of a prestige battle that's been raging on the criminal court and on the civilian court. Finally, we managed to get a few clubs banned by the civil courts along the way. Now there's another administrative ban coming from the motorcycle clubs. How to unpack, then the judge has to decide again. He gets a handful of work, which he's not waiting for at all. And you don't have to. I've suggested to the minister before... "Be smart with those guys." You want to get the rotten pears out of that club. They're all on a motorcycle. If you give the judge the opportunity to deny their license, outside the Halt Penalty for drug trafficking, for trafficking in women, for violence, they will lose their bike and their entire status. They'll have no business at the club anymore. Then they have to ride a bike to the clubhouse. Then you hit them and then you take the rotten pears out easy. It doesn't cost anything. Now the minister's been suing for seven years to get those motorcycle clubs banned. I would like to know what the national attorney charged for these proceedings during those seven years. It's not helping. If they take off the jacket of the Hells Angels, that turns out already the club is disbanded and then they start a new club with a new name. And then there's an administrative ban on that, you better hope. Then they start a new club. Don't you see? You need to get them where their criminal instincts come from. That's their connection, love, sick bonding maybe, or obsession with that bike thing at that club. Take their bikes away! They'll go fishing. I want to know what the country's attorney charged for those seven years with this prestige hit that was delivered. The result is nil. As it now stands, the Minister continues with this type of procedure, because it is one of the three battle points against undermining. Banning the outlaw motorcycle clubs is pointless, pointless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u183	How far along are you, Mr. Hiddema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u184	I'm almost done. What does have to be done is as ready as a whistle. There's gotta be a lot more money. There's gotta be a lot more detectives. Whatever you need to do is put an end to the dismantling of the police force in the rural areas. The Minister must ensure that the police are recognizable, between the citizens, as police. More than 200 police posts in rural areas have been dismantled. Does the minister know that Mexican cooks that are flown in to make crystal meth go to Groningen? To the country, they've never been there. In the cornfields is now being boiled that it has a nature. All the police stations are out of there. Everyone with a little sense goes to those parts. The police stations are gone. And now the people who live there have to report the police having an hour's lead time. You can't, because the desk's gone. No, then there is a multifunctional meeting centre on the outskirts of a village, where during office hours a balque leopard does that kind of registrations of people who come by to complain to the police. He doesn't know anything! He doesn't know his pappenheimers. He doesn't know what's going on in the region. People don't go there. That's why all your numbers and your numbers are totally unreliable. When it comes to registered crime, when it comes to tracking rates, it's all fake. It's all meant to throw people in the eyes, that people feel safer and that crime is falling. What makes you say that? Nonsense. It is time for the Netherlands to know a new Reveil. We're not gonna let them take us by the nose. Everyone walks to Malieveld. Everyone's waking up, it looks like. But here, when it comes to asylum and the fight against crime, everyone still settles for the ritual, where one gets sand in the eyes. That's incomprehensible, but well, time will tell. I would like to know what my final question is about these figures. We don't know the willingness to report it. What we do know is that a lot of things are still untraceable and a lot of facts don't end up in court. I would like to know about the year 2018-2019. How many Article 12 criminal proceedings have been brought before the Court? Then you can see whether or not the citizen will accept that his charge has ended up in the trash can. If there's an increase in that, you can see that there's something wrong with the flow and that there's something wrong with the leadership of the D.A., the direction of the D.A.'s office, and the willingness of the people in the lower floor to really take the case. This can be seen in the course of Article 12 procedures. And there are complaints from the court that so many of these proceedings are being instituted. So that's because the citizen in the police department doesn't hear his charges and the officer dismisses. It's really special. I just read another one of those articles, was it in Ter Apel? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I saw it in the paper this week, I believe yesterday. The complaint is: the police do nothing and if they do anything, the officer dismisses. That is why we want the principle of legality. It's about time. I would ask the Minister to have an investigation conducted by the WODC to see whether there could be an improvement in the detection rates and the trial rates by introducing the principle of legality. We know that in Germany. Then what you get is a State Anwalt who has to prosecute. You have to! That's gonna bring pressure down. If there's a baseball bat downstairs, he might think without that obligation and the officer's hot breath: I don't feel like it, here's the trash can; that's going fast, because I want to go home. You do! We can all be proud of the quality of police personnel and the best intentions. It's gonna happen. But there are also a lot of people stuck in positions who think: I don't feel like it at all. And when a prosecutor is charged with whether or not he prosecutes, he makes sure that he doesn't make any mistakes and that the people who record the reports make sure that that stuff ends up with him. That's what we need. It's so simple, it doesn't cost anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr. Hiddema, you said you'd finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u186	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u187	You've run out of 45 minutes. I don't know if you still have time for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u188	The best solution is the next, but that's an illusion of madness. After the end of this session, these ministers and Secretary of State should look at how things can and will proceed as we continue to do, go to the Council of Ministers and say: boys, stop, there are billions of you going to that anointed environment and I am in distress with a people and I am getting 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u189	You're starting again. You said you'd finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u190	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u191	Otherwise, you won't have time for tomorrow. Then the government comes in and you must also have time to respond to it. Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u192	Thank you, Mr President. A cop who can do his or her best work is indispensable to your sense of safety and is vital. Anyone who has ever needed the police to protect themselves, another or an animal knows that this is true. Then you don't want to have to look for an internet form or a so-called pop-up police station, which is a name that disappeared as suddenly as it had come, but then you seek the familiarity of the familiar face of the district agent. Then you do not want to report it at a so-called 3D declaration counter, in an abandoned building or at your municipality with very limited opening hours. Then you really want to connect with a physical person, from person to person, that reassures you, listens to you and protects you. The president of the ACP police union says: we see that the problems are acute and that there are far too few agents in the streets, in the neighbourhood and in the neighbourhood; there are also too few people in the police department to solve criminal offences, and in society the need and expectation is that they will succeed. Mr. Chairman. This isn't new. After all the cuts, the minister had to be packed in efficiency strokes, and the transformation into a log national police force, the ageing population and the huge outflow within the police and the much too limited influx into the academy for many years, no, should have foreseen this. Even now, it's sticking patches. Already, the consequences of far too few agents are fully felt in society. But what does the Minister do? To really solve the many problems within the police, 75 to 100 million is needed, among other things for 17,000 new agents. This was argued by the ACP police union in May. How far do the police and the security of our society have to sink through the ice before the minister starts investing structurally in the police? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The shortage of capacity creates problems everywhere. In society, citizens try to solve the capacity problems and the disappearance of the district agent themselves and keep their neighborhood safe by setting up WhatsApp groups, deploying civilian searches and by civilian surveillance in the neighborhood, armed with just a flashlight. Such initiatives are the result of a lack of peace on the part of the police and of delays in driving, particularly in rural areas. Does the Minister consider it his responsibility to end the need for such citizens' initiatives? Does the Minister agree with me that one district agent out of 5,000 citizens is far too little and that the breeding ground for even more violent incidents in which people or groups take the law into their own hands because they do not feel heard or because they see that no action is being taken against injustice and suffering can only be taken away if the police can do their job fully again and the citizens can rely on it? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of citizen's confidence, there are still expensive 0900 forwarding numbers that appear high on the internet search "no urgency, but police" and which, unlike the free number 0900-8844, cost a lot of money. How is it possible that this is still possible? Years ago, Parliament questions were asked about it. The Authority's Consumer & Market referred to the website as "unwanted but not illegal'. Can't the Minister put an end to this? Mr. Chairman. For the police, the consequences of undercapacity are not easy either: enormous workload, hectic in roasting, disease breakdown, burn-outs, tensions within the corps, PTSD, insecurity for agents and citizens, reports and declarations that remain, animal welfare, environment and youth tasks that no longer need time because we need to maintain emergency aid with man and power, because we also need resuscitation. The basic team chiefs set priorities and the task holders no longer belong to their specialties. How can there be more attention to issues such as violence against Ibti's people when all energy is needed for emergency aid? How can more effective action be taken against child abuse, children who grow up in an unsafe home situation? How can there be more violence against animals if there is no longer time for task holders to tackle this issue? Now it is up to the Member to take over. It has been given many new tasks, while it also lacks capacity. How's the Minister gonna solve all this? Mr. Chairman. All kinds of unorthodox measures are being taken by the Minister. No proposal is really too crazy to continue to function more or less with less capacity, far too few agents. I would like to join with all the questions that have been asked about the extended powers of police and security services, about algorithms, additional camera surveillance including facial recognition, the drag law and privacy, and the civil rights of innocent citizens, which are seriously at risk. Mr. Chairman. Then the taser. We got a letter of inquiry. Does the Minister agree with me that resting agents with this taser is not a solution to the capacity problem either? You can't count on that to arrest fewer cops. At my request, the Minister took note of the advice of the UN Committee on Torture, for which he thanked. But can the Minister please go into the proportionality of the power-bulb weapon again? In the United Kingdom, 18 people have died since the arms were imported after it was used against them. Can the Minister respond to the risks clearly described in an analysis in the NRC last Saturday? There is no provision for studies to work in a controlled setting. The Minister wants to exempt weaker groups from using the taser. But how does a cop see if a woman is, for example, four months pregnant? And why aren't the elderly excluded? Mr. Chairman. We need an emergency plan for the police. Yesterday we received a letter of fire from the trade unions stating that in the very short term, now, choices must be made by this cabinet, by this minister. The only concrete plan available concerns the length of training of agents. Probably getting shorter, more practice, more on the street. Does the Minister agree with me that training is precisely the most valuable basis for a police force that has confidence in itself on the one hand and gives citizens confidence on the other? Does the Minister agree with me that the solution to the problems of capacity, the ageing population, the massive outflow of agents and the hole that creates this outflow should not be sought in the reduction of training? An organisation in charge of the monopoly of violence is in charge of the essential and not to be underestimated important task of keeping this country safe must seek the solution not in reducing training, but in investing in the educational organisation. It's already beeping and cracking in this organization, because it has to grow from 2,000 students to 2,700 students a year. Can the Minister reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. The trade unions have now decided to come up with their own contingency plan to deal with the problems. Shouldn't the minister have taken the lead here proactively? This is in view of the importance of an optimally functioning police force, for which the Minister is responsible. Instead, the Minister writes, a little ominous, that "uncomfortable choices" must be made in the coming years. What exactly does the Minister mean? Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u193	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow at 1:45 p.m., the rulers will respond for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-7.u194	I shall suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m. Thank you.
