ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Bundling and adaptation of rules on the registers relating to participants in education (34878), i.e. the Education Participants' Register Act. I would like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media to the Upper House. We'll start with the first term of office. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I am allowed to speak not only on behalf of the VVD Group, but also on behalf of the Labour Party Group. The legislative proposal we are discussing today seems to be of a technical nature, but is practically relevant to the educational participants and the educational institutions. The data of all pupils, students and graduates are managed on behalf of the Minister by the Executive Agency for Education, abbreviated DUO. This is done in the Basic Register of Educational Participants, abbreviated Source. Source was one of the first large-scale automated systems to support policy implementation in the Netherlands. It came there 17 years ago. In the meantime, educational registers have been added, such as on absenteeism and diplomas, and thus new and other legal frameworks. The data are now in at least four different registers, namely SOURCE, the reporting register relative failure, the diploma register and the register exemptions and replacement compulsory education. This data is necessary for general policy-making and funding of institutions and for specific policies relating to matters such as school absenteeism and drop-out. In addition, the exchange of data between DUO and educational institutions is important for the examination and certification of educational participants. Despite the many similarities in the intended use of the data, there are so far different laws for these registers. All this means that the total number of educational registers has become complex and unclear. With the legislative proposal we are discussing today, the government wants to allow more simplicity and logic in the system and more possibilities for implementation. The registers shall be bundled, without any changes to their content. In addition, this bill makes it possible for the birthplace of an educational participant to be entered in the register, which is necessary for the issue of a diploma. It reduces administrative work and errors. It is also intended that educational participants will eventually have their own insight into all their data. Due to its integral nature, the new register legislation will provide a better picture of what is involved in education information. There is a more complete picture of the data collected by the Ministry of Education on educational participants and the use of such data. At the same time, the comprehensive design of the new legislation provides a better basis for monitoring the coherence of the education sectors in the information field. The new registry legislation will also be more flexible and appropriate to support innovations in the field of digitisation and re-use of data. Mr. Chairman. The starting point of this law, the compilation of registers for the sake of simplicity and logic, is warmly supported by the members of the groups of the VVD and the Labour Party. However, we would ask the Minister to address the security and privacy aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u3	I hear Mr Bruijn say a few times that this is about a bundling of registers. I have read it in such a way that it is a combination of the legal frameworks for those registers and not the registers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u4	That is right: it is about pooling the frameworks. In fact, the registers already exist, and that doesn't change anything. Following a question from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the government writes in the reply that the bill does not lead to the construction of a new register in a technical sense. Data will be stored in the systems underlying the current four registers. In the Developing Source programme, these systems are modernised, but data on educational participants remain stored in different systems. But if the amount of data per registry increases, what does that mean for the risks associated with unauthorised use? Then don't take them accordingly, so I ask the Minister. Third party access to data is in principle no different or wider than at present, according to the government. That may be so for authorized access, but what about the risks of unauthorized access? Do the systems themselves remain separate in the sense that unauthorized access to one of the systems in the future will not facilitate unauthorized access in another system? How exactly is DUO prepared for these changes in general and any burglaries in particular? What additional security measures have been taken? Would the Minister also comment on the maximum retention period necessary for the purpose of these registers? Mr. Chairman. During the written discussion, members of the VVD Group asked a question about the use of the flow information. The letter of amendment provides for a supplement to Article 20, which transmits flow information from the learning years 1 to 3 of the vo to primary education, the p.o. The p.o. use this information to improve the school advice it gives. It also benefits from receiving flow information from further education. With this information, it can further improve the quality of career orientation and career guidance programmes, at least as the VO Council states. And we've asked if the government has considered analog to the p.o. This proposal also makes it possible to make flow information available from MBO, HBO and WE. One example is a proposal that allows students' data on education and the academic year to be traced back from Source to Vo. That might require a separate bill. The government states in the reply that the supply of the flow information to the vo is not in the government's opinion to align itself with the supply of flow information to the p.o. In the p.o. the flow of information is a means of improving the evaluation of school advice. Primary schools should provide each pupil with school advice on follow-up education. That school advice has a great significance for the further school career. This calls for proper information to be provided to the primary school. Here also belongs to the feedback of data at individual level via the registry, as made possible by the letter of amendment. The programme concludes with a diploma where orientation to study and occupation is part of the programme. What a student is going to do with it, for example, whether or not to do a follow-up study and which study is to the student. In addition to the activities carried out by the student in the context of career orientation, many other factors can, of course, influence his final choice. This means that flow-through information about an individual pupil in itself says relatively little about the quality of the career orientation programme offered by the school, the government argues. Career orientation also does not determine the possibilities of subsequent education and it should be borne in mind that providing information about the further education career to a school affects the former pupil's privacy. According to the government, this means that there must be sufficient serious reasons for such a provision. The Minister does not see these reasons for the feedback to the vote. Therefore, it has not been chosen to regulate the supply of flow information to the vo at an individual level by law. This is without prejudice to the possibility for schools to have flow data at an aggregated non-personalised level. This is addressed by the national cohort research education, the NCO, which makes a report available to schools. In addition, the Expertise Point LOB vo-mbo supports an improvement in career orientation and guidance in vo and mbo, so that study choices lead to less dropout and change of training in further education. The LOB vo-mbo Expertise Point will have a monitor run in 2018 and 2019 to monitor the state of play. Mr. Chairman. That may be the case, and I understand that the Minister weighs the burden of proportionality, but that argument is not quite convincing. Is the argument that providing information about the further education career to a school affects the former pupil's privacy, not just for providing follow-up information to the p.o., which is now being made possible? With regard to the usefulness of the information, it itself indicates, through the VO-Council, that it does indeed benefit from receiving flow information from further education. Conversely, we hear from higher education that feedback of information to vo and mbo is now very difficult and does not meet what vo and mbo want. While people often get this question about feedback in higher education. So there's obviously a need. This information can further improve the quality of career orientation and career guidance programmes. Can the Minister indicate what stands in the way of feedback? What is the opposition to the request of the MBO and MBO, which are part of it, to provide this information? Mbo is of course in a double role here, because she is both recipient of information from HBO and supplier of information to vo. That's why I'm taking the MBO. The fact that many other factors can influence the follow-up course applies equally to the transition p.o.-vo, where in addition to the school advice other factors influence the choice of school. The Minister refers to the aforementioned NCO, but the question is whether it is used by schools and whether schools see added value in the NCO, especially in this context. We are receiving signals that they are not. Can the Minister say anything about that? Is the Minister prepared to discuss the desirability and possibility of feedback of flow into data with the VO Council and possibly with the MBO Council again and to inform this Chamber of its outcome? Is the Minister prepared to inform this Chamber about the progress of the implementation of this bill? Mr. Chairman. Members of the PvdA and VVD groups are looking forward to the answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. Mr Ganzevoort has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Socialist Party colleagues today. For both our groups it is important to find a good balance between optimising care for pupils, their influx and flow, guidance, etc., and protecting privacy. The latter becomes all the more important where the government is increasingly able to generate and integrate data. The present law is in itself positive to appreciate. It contributes to ensuring that the different registers of participants in education fall within the same legal framework, thus creating more uniformity in the registers and making it clearer what data may be used for. This would serve, for example, the careful exchange of information between primary school and secondary education. A good intention, because clear legislation is a valuable thing. The law also as such does not change the content of the registers or link them together. That too is positive, but the government states in its answer to the questions that this bill does not exclude the merging of data either. The core message of the government is essentially this: we do not change the way we work, we do not change the storage, this is just a legal improvement by making the framework more unambiguous. In other words, don't worry. But that does not alter the fact that the principle of goal-binding is equally valid here. And that is exactly where our first question lies. Precisely when it comes to privacy-sensitive data, such as special personal data of health, criminal law, religious and cultural background of people, race and so on, existing ways of working must also be kept under review. In our time, the linking of data files is the order of the day with all the consequences of that. And the government too, let us be honest about this, appears eagerly to explore and use the possibilities of such links in many areas. That is why, as far as we are concerned, it is not satisfactory for the Minister to say that this link is not being settled here. We would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to prevent such links and aggregation of data or, if they arise, that they are carefully guaranteed when it comes to privacy. Indeed, the personal data that may be of interest for a specific purpose and should therefore be processed by a particular body are not at all for another purpose. Can the Minister indicate how he is proactively countering interconnection and can he promise that changes will not take place on this point without parliamentary consent? In this context, we welcome the amendments that lead to the AMBs being submitted to Parliament under Articles 15 to 24 before they enter into force. But why isn't that just settled by law? Are the effects in these AMvBs so variable that they need to be adapted each time? Can the Minister explain why and give examples? Shouldn't at least a target binding and data minimisation framework have been established? It is not so difficult to think of an extra application or an extra connection every time on an ad hoc basis that is quite convenient. But the starting point when using personal data is not what is useful but what is necessary. And there, for example, Article 24 is generously vague, precisely because other administrative bodies can also be added there. And then the door opens wide, it seems. How, for example, has cooperation arrangements been established for appropriate education? I didn't see it in the treatment or in the text. And does a juvenile suspect also have access to the entire file, including special personal data? These questions are all dealt with side by side in Article 24, but they are not answered. To be honest, our groups do not see at the moment how function creep and unwanted data linking are adequately blocked by the frameworks that this law lays down. We like to be reassured on this point, especially because this law offers the coat rack, but not the effect that follows in the AMvBs. There is a good description in law of the types of data, the types of processors and the different purposes that exist. But what is missing is a matrix that indicates which user may use which data at which level of aggregation, with what purposes and with what safeguards. And that is precisely the crux of the appropriate guarantee that is addressed, among other things, by the GDPR, which is supposed to be a framework. For example, it stipulates that the authorisation for processing will be subject to a ministerial regulation, but only to those under the authority of this minister and not to others. These are all risks to privacy, which you can tackle, but the question is why it is not more strictly defined at the level of the law itself. We'd like to hear an explanation. Furthermore, the Minister responds to our questions about the use of data for policy preparation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is also one of the objectives that is made possible or regulated by means of "developing, defining and evaluating policies." Not surprising. In fact, we could have figured that out ourselves. But what's needed for that is in the AMvB. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about this, because this remains very vague? Is data profiles used, for example, in which anonymised personal data is used but which can contain so much data that they can be traced back to person or at least group? How then can it be prevented that the government or publicly engaged companies do undesirable things with this data? For example, by checking whether a student fits a certain profile and is therefore treated in a certain way? Another example: the retention period is minimised, but it is 50 years for higher education registration data because of the effect of previous enrolments on tuition fees. That makes sense. But let's just say that a next cabinet, you never know who's in it, decides to cancel the higher tuition fees for second studies. This would remove the need to keep these data for so long. Does that mean that these data will be deleted from the systems, as is mentioned at another point? Or are they maintained in the case of another government after that, you never know who's in it, decide to start again to differentiate between first and second studies? In other words, how do you prevent you from storing all kinds of data in case you ever need them, and where will that be arranged now? It seems that different personal data are personalised towards the minister for policy implementation, for example on tuition fees, and anonymised for policy preparation. How does that happen? How do we stop this from coming together? Is it true that the data go to, for example, the mayor's and aldermen's college without anonymisation? Again: how is that so limited that need and privacy remain in balance? All in all, that brings us to the next point. The explanatory statement states that there is no privacy impact assessment because there is no material new legislation. According to Article 35 GDPR (3) (b), a data protection impact assessment is required "in the case of large-scale processing of special categories of personal data or of data relating to criminal convictions and criminal offences," I quote. Such a situation is at issue here and all this information directly affects the privacy of the educational participant. According to the GDPR, this assessment is not necessary if an overall impact assessment has already been carried out. Can the government explain once again that it was indeed not necessary here? It seems to us that the possibilities of coupling, which are becoming easier here, would legitimize an assessment. He may indeed insist that this is only a technical law. I can imagine that reasoning, I admit it, because that helps, then we don't have to change it in a moment. But then there's the next point. This means that the elaboration takes place in the AMvBs. The matrix of the processors, the purposes, the type of data and the safeguards associated with it is not in this law, but in a moment comes into the realization of the AMvB. At this point, it will be particularly important to ensure that privacy is not at stake. That is why we ask the government to carry out a privacy impact assessment for the AMvBs that will implement it on the basis of this law. It is already stated in the explanatory memorandum that this will happen in case the AMvB will regulate new data exchange under the legislative proposal. But precisely because that matrix of data, processors and safeguards is not clear, we ask the Minister to submit the AMvBs referred to in this law that will develop this standard for advice to the Personal Data Authority. At the moment when the AMvB is put forward, including in this Chamber, we must also have that advice, so that we can weigh in a good way what that means for the privacy guarantee. Is the Minister prepared to undertake that assessment? I'm rounding up. In itself, our groups support the direction of better framing and standardising of registers of participants in education, for the sake of access to education and good care for those taking part in education. But the protection of privacy does raise questions, because the whole bill is a proposal for a coat of arms. It is characterized in particular by what is not in it; not in the legal text and not in the explanatory memorandum. I would just like to add that, unfortunately, this is happening more and more often, in our opinion, and that the government in this Chamber is also criticized more often. This important legislative proposal describes very broad categories of data, with a large number of data being classified. The purposes and even processing groups have been described widely and not exhaustively and there is no such fine-meshed matrix of data, processors and appropriate safeguards. Hopefully all this will become clear in an AMvB, but if the Minister wants us to screw this coat rack on the wall today anyway, then it will be very helpful if he answers our questions convincingly and promises to have a privacy impact assessment with the AMvBs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mr Bruijn has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u8	I have another question for Mr. Ganzevoort about those privacy impact assessments. Can he explain a little bit more about the nature of this? How much administrative work, how much delay in time, how much cost, and how you should weigh the return? What proceeds should you not allow such an AMvB to pass? Perhaps there is something more to be said about this, so that we can take this into account. Maybe not, but that's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u9	In the technical sense, the Minister will undoubtedly be able to tell us more about what it costs. It is a standard procedure. A privacy impact assessment is done at all times and is also prescribed. You can say that in this case it does not need to be carried out at law level, because there are no new things happening at this point, but it is about the concreteisation or coherence of the types of data, processors, purposes and guarantees that matters. It is very obvious; if that had been in the law, there would have been a privacy impact assessment done on the law, and now that it comes to the AMvB, we ask to do it there. If you want to know what that means financially or otherwise, the Minister will undoubtedly be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u10	And then the last question I asked: how useful is the proceeds of that? In any case, I understand that this has not already been settled for the AMvBs. That is why Mr Ganzevoort is asking, so that is new. How feasible is that gonna be? Then we get one of those AMvB fronts and there's such a privacy assessment. So what are we gonna do? At what degree of impact are we not going to let that AMvB pass? Is that practical for this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u11	How it works now is that when a privacy impact assessment is done that leads to advice to the government to adjust things, in most cases the government takes those advices. This means that it is not so much that we can say at the end here whether or not we have a reason to lie down, but rather that there is a cleansing effect that puts in place the safeguards that are needed. So that privacy impact assessment is just part of the trajectory and ultimately of the design of that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u12	Then I understand between the lines by saying that the advice of Mr.Ganzevoort is actually for the government to have that privacy impact assessment carried out before the AMvB is put forward and not to predicate the AMvB at all if the impact of that privacy assessment is too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u13	I don't know other than that this is the standard procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u14	But if that's already happening, the question is whether it adds anything else to carry out that privacy assessment with that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u15	No, what I'm saying is that when there's a privacy impact assessment, it happens in the procedure at the time. At the moment, it hasn't been arranged that it's going to happen. That is why I ask the Minister to undertake that assessment in the design of the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u16	That seems clear to me. Mr. Ganzevoort, thank you very much. Does one of the other members of this bill still want to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u17	We continue to deal with the bill Bundling and adaptation of rules on the registers relating to educational participants, the Education Participants' Register Act. I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Through you, I would also like to thank Mr Bruijn and Mr Ganzevoort for their first-term contributions on behalf of various political groups, which is very special; Mr Bruijn also spoke on behalf of the PvdA Group and Mr Ganzevoort also spoke on behalf of the SP Group. Thank you for letting me stand here. I have been a minister for a year and a half, but I had not had the pleasure of speaking here in this capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u19	Then you are all the more welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u20	Look at this! The legislative proposal before us certainly justifies discussing it with each other. In his term, Mr Bruijn has set out very well what the purpose of this bill is. I don't think there's much discussion about that either. At the moment, we have very complex registry legislation. The desire was to make it an integral register. The current registry provisions are spread over about ten laws, while ten AMvBs and ministerial arrangements are developed. That is absolutely not transparent. The main objective of this law is therefore to bring together the register legislation into one law, but also to work with one AMvB and one ministerial regulation. This provides a clear picture and transparency, which is particularly important for those whose data are included in those registers. It also shows very clearly what data is being collected. The regulation we are proposing now also fits very well with the GDPR, which has already entered into force some time ago. When it comes to the processing of personal data, which demands very clearly that it is lawful and proper; the word "transparent" also comes back to it. In particular, Mr Ganzevoort asked: why now a framework law and also an AMvB and what are the underlying ideas? The framework law very clearly states who the large users of the data are, and you can find that in all the legal provisions -- exactly who these large users are. This is, of course, especially the Ministry of Education itself, but this includes the education inspection. The CBS is also one of the major users. So they are mentioned in the law by name, with the exact data and the goals that go with it. When it comes to all the other users, say the small users, it has been chosen to further develop this at a later date in the AMvB, but then exactly the same will happen, for example with regard to the partnerships. Then the targets will be set very clearly, as well as the data that can be used for this purpose, so that that too is absolutely clear and transparent. Why not everything in a law? There is, of course, a lot of discussion about this: framework laws and, as Mr Ganzevoort called it, caps. This also has to do with the fact that some flexibility is very enjoyable. We have seen it a number of times in recent years with apparently very small changes. The most appealing example is perhaps keeping an eye on absenteeism. At the roc's the name was mentioned but not the location where the student in question was. That had to be fixed. That's even become a very separate law. You know how much time that takes, and you have finally been treated like a hammer piece. There are still a few examples to give. So that's just common. By regulating much now in the AMvB it must be transparent, clear and clear about what data is involved and who is allowed to use it. We think it will work better in practice and give a little more flexibility, which was missing from the old, very fragmented legislation. So that is an important reason for doing so as far as we are concerned. As Members have pointed out, legislation does not suddenly aim to create a new, large register. No, it is indeed the legislation that is brought together so that, although you still have a lot of pages to read, it is clear, so to speak, at a glance, what data is involved, who makes use of it and so on and so forth. But for the rest, basically nothing changes when it comes to how the data can be accessed and who can and cannot access it. I shall come back to this later in a separate way in the context of the question of privacy and security. As far as we are concerned, that is not the issue. Perhaps that is a good bridge to that subject right away, because most of the questions have been asked about security and privacy. I think it is indeed important, if you have this kind of legislation, also knowing the impact of the data stored in these different registers, to look for a very good balance. It's important that those data are there. They are very useful, even for those whose data it is when it comes to their use. They are also useful to keep an eye on certain developments, e.g. school absenteeism, but it is also important to keep a close eye on all security and privacy questions and to find a good balance between them. You have read the report of the debate in the House of Representatives. Several subjects came along that were said: it is useful if it is in it; can it still do so, and can it still do so? Then you will always have to ask yourself the question of proportionality, but also look at privacy and security. You have seen that I have not been able to keep it completely dry at one point. An amendment was adopted concerning the inclusion of the code number of the vo-school in the feedback of the data. But for the rest, we have really tried to find a good balance in that. What about security and privacy? Mr Ganzevoort also asked for this in the framework of DUO. I can make a very detailed comment on this, but I will try to be brief. When I went into it, I was once again impressed by the security measures taken at DUO, because privacy and information security are really a big topic at DUO. This is also necessary, especially when it comes to information security, because techniques change over and over again and opportunities to be able to do something or not do something also move along. It is important that DUO has its own safety regulations and security in order. This is not only about the technique of handling which certainly also plays a role there, but also about the working instructions, the procedures that are followed and the process descriptions. DUO does, as they say with a fashionable term, also regularly to awareness sessions. By doing so, they try to see how this world moves, what that can have for possible consequences and how they can secure themselves from them in a good way. This also happens at the level of the employees, because also there is authorisation management. So they go through the car wash so to speak and they are screened. Not everyone has access to all kinds of data. That happens very carefully. A question has also been asked about third parties who might have access to that data. That is not the case in principle. The only people you could characterize as third parties are the students and the institutions themselves. You know that via DigiD they only have access to their own data to check it. They do not have access to other people's data. This has been set out very carefully, up to the procedures with regard to those who have access to the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u21	I have one more question about that point. I may not be entirely well informed about this. That happens more often. However, I have the impression that, for example, suppliers of digital learning resources should be able to make use of student data in one way or another in order to facilitate it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u22	Access to the ICT systems, to the data, is really very structured. This is only accessible to users. This also applies to cases where, for example, someone wants to know whether his data has been properly entered. That is also very carefully regulated. Just the student, just the institution. It is not the case that third parties have access to that data. They may be able to collect information in other ways, but they do not have direct access to systems and to data that are very closely monitored, even up to the law, and also in the AMvB when it comes to the question of who does or does not have access to that data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u23	Mr. Ganzevoort, any second thoughts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u24	My concern concerns a bit of the following. They have access to the school's systems, otherwise they won't be able to do anything with these digital learning tools. The school's data is, of course, linked to the central systems. So the question is whether these connections are not actually made along these detours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u25	They can, of course, make agreements with the school about students who, for example, may use their teaching tools, the teaching tools they supply digitally. Sometimes you have to be able to log in, then you also have to know if that's someone from that school. These are agreements that can be made between the school and in this case the provider of these teaching materials. But they do not have direct access to the files we are talking about here, because we have laid down exactly who is allowed to use them and what are the purposes for which they may be used. By the way, even if a school shares data in other ways, it is always true that those from whom the data are shared should also know that and that all the provisions of the GDPR regarding the sharing of information should be followed. Those have become very strict guidelines. If you compare that to what that was an x-number of years ago, when we didn't have these arrangements yet, then that's really a world of difference. You can't just go exchange one-two-three data. By the way, the Empire has all kinds of security programmes. These ensure that you handle data carefully, which ensures that you do not have access to certain data. You are aware of all these directives, which will undoubtedly have been discussed here. This includes, for example, the Decision on information security services. I also mention the Baseline Information Security Agency from 2017. These are all directives which aim to preserve information, which is done carefully, that we also know exactly who is using it and that it cannot just leak all over the place. At the moment, the digital government bill is in the Lower House. This has yet to be dealt with in the House of Representatives, but that also fits into that context of careful handling of this data. I'm going back to the bill that's going on today. Thus, the way the data is stored in separate ICT systems does not change with this law. That is simply identical to the way it was arranged for this. That is also the case when the data will be part of one register, but that has to do with other purposes, with the aim of keeping it clear, to also provide access to what information is collected where, so that you do not have to get it out of ten laws and also from so many AMvBs. No, we are now going to bring that to the attention of everyone very user-friendly if this law has finally reached the finish line. Mr Bruijn specifically asked: do the systems themselves remain separate in the sense that unauthorized access to one of the systems in the future will not facilitate unauthorized access to another system? The answer is "yes" to that. It is absolutely not intended that all kinds of unauthorised access will suddenly be obtained. Mr. Chairman. With regard to privacy and security, it is also always good to state very clearly what the retention periods are that belong to the different data. You've seen the same thing in the law. Different types of data are therefore subject to different retention periods. I think it is important to stress that the basic data of a person who has been written out as a participant in education are kept for a maximum of five years. Then they'll be destroyed. We know that in the case of absenteeism data this is much shorter. That is the school year in which the absenteeism occurs and the school year after that, and then it's just done. The exemption data shall be retained until one year after the date of expiry of the exemption. Diploma records stand for 60 years. When the retention period is over, as they say very officially, and I think that is very nice jargon, the data will be cleaned. We say: then she goes into the digital trash can or whatever, or through the shredder when they're on paper. If data are no longer required, because they no longer need to be supplied, then they will eventually be destroyed after the deadline that is in place after that deadline has expired. At least they won't be delivered anymore. We're going through that a couple of times. It's not like there's just rules coming in. The most beautiful example in this respect is still the bill I have been able to defend in the House of Representatives. That was an arrangement on education deficit policy. There they worked with backpacks and very complicated arrangements. That is worth a separate debate, by the way, but we have changed it by now. Through the CBS, a current indicator is now published each time, which automatically ensures a proper distribution of resources between schools and municipalities. So we no longer need to collect all this data. That was also a crime, by the way, because the level of education of parents had to be included. People just didn't know that sometimes. Now it just stops. Then you have until the end of the retention period, but then it will be permanently destroyed. No new data will be provided. That is also a reduction of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u26	I've heard the same example. It's a nice example of how it works. So this data minimization should also be a starting point. That was also the reason for my question about the long retention period for enrolment data for higher education. The Minister now says, in my view, that if it were decided not to make a distinction with regard to tuition fees, second study, and therefore there is no reason to keep the data for so long, no new data would be recorded from that moment on, but that the data already available would still be kept until the end of the retention period. That surprises me, because when you talk about data minimizement, you would say that data that are no longer needed, but which are still in the system, we clean up too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u27	The intention is to clean it up as quickly as possible. I specifically checked, because it was also a point for me. How long have you been doing that? Sometimes there are data between them that are needed to evaluate each other: what have we done recently? It is therefore not entirely possible to cut with scissors, but the aim is to keep that data no longer than is strictly necessary. At least it stops. With the data remaining, it is also finished after a maximum of five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u28	That is exactly the problem, because it is not a maximum of five years. I think it's 50 years with those higher education enrollments. The minister's even gonna talk about it in 60 years. That's a different category. That's a lot different than five years. I have a question about keeping that data just to be safe, because they may be needed some other time. As soon as they are no longer necessary, will those data be actively erased?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u29	It is very specific that the retention periods, as they currently apply, are GDPR proof so to speak. In relation to the GDPR, it has been examined what reasonable deadlines are for data to be retained even longer. I can imagine that if, for example, there is revolutionary legislation, Mr Ganzevoort preached already to cabinet compositions that we do not yet have; we have to wait and see how all this is going to happen and the changes in this area are regulated in legislation, then you make agreements. That can be done at an appropriate time. Then you can also specifically look at what you are talking about and what you might do with the information that is left over regarding the period that is being closed at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u30	I have two enlightening questions. First one's next. The Minister clearly confirmed that the registers, as they are now, remain separate, but just a moment earlier the Minister spoke about: if it becomes one register in the future. How am I supposed to interpret that statement? Is this a stepping stone to possibly one register, even if you first regulate the legislation, or is that not at all the case for the time being?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u31	No, the last one's not on the table. Apparently, I've been a little careless in my terms. It is good that Mr Bruijn asks a question about it. No, we're gonna settle it legally, but the registers remain separate as far as we're concerned. The cabinet also has no intention of making any changes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u32	Thank you. Then there is a second question, about post-primary education and retention periods. How does post-initial education behave in this law? I haven't heard from the Minister yet. What about the retention periods? I can imagine that the retention period of 60 or 50 years is based on the maximum period of participation in the labour market, perhaps. Then that information could be relevant. If you are in post-initial education, and that information is also kept, it would also require a shorter retention period. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u33	I have just indicated that those kind of retention periods should also be GDPR proof. There must therefore be a certain reasonableness in the time limits you use with regard to the retention of the data. So we are looking at each subject in which category we can place it. If new subjects are to be added through the AMvB to what is already regulated by the law for the main users................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And then fill in how many years in that situation is reasonable. Thus, no single generic retention period is used, as this would not do justice to the different positions nor to the long-term retention of the information and its reasonableness. The most exciting question about privacy has perhaps been asked by Mr Ganzevoort, also on behalf of the SP. A lot is being worked out in an AMvB. How do I handle this data, including in the context of privacy? I have considered fighting with Mr Ganzevoort for a moment, because you are making a trade-off with regard to the PIA, as we are shortening it in the jargon. What do you want or don't want them to beat? In principle, we do not change the current situation. This means that, as far as we are concerned, there is no reason to carry out all kinds of new tests at the time when we are going to put the different legislation into one law. The intention that we have discussed with the House of Representatives is that if there are any additions there; this Chamber has already been able to trace four in the documents on which we will at least release the PIA test. At the moment when the AMvB is ahead, it is perfectly clear what the privacy consequences of the steps we take are. In any case, the Personal Data Authority shall always be consulted. That's what we've been asked about, and that's our route. By the way, these PIAs are quite a job. I got one, but it's very extensive documents that are going to take a lot of time. The moment you submit the full AMvB to that key, you will know that it will do a lot of work. The costs are also not entirely clear, but they are not for the users. It's up to the government to pay for it. If the Chamber insists that we will do so for the entire AMvB, then I am prepared to say so, but in the knowledge that it is a huge piece of work and that it is waiting to see what it will produce in relation to the matters that we have included in the test, but which have already been dealt with in the old legislation and for which nothing really changes. At least we intend to do it by default with every addition. This will also be seen by the Chamber in the AMvB which will be coming shortly, because we are already working on the additions in terms of data. But again, if you indicate that it is very much appreciated that the AMvB is also placed in width along this bar, then we are willing to do so. That's gonna take some time, and we don't know exactly how much time. It also brings with it some costs. We do not know exactly how much it costs because this is a new way of working with regard to information that we believe has ended up in legislation carefully in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u34	I am not speaking on behalf of the groups that have asked the question, so I cannot answer your question as to whether the Chamber insists that you do so. But the groups I am speaking on behalf of would like to give the Minister some tailor-made work in order to look at it reasonably. Especially in view of the effort required and the costs involved, we want to give him the possibility of a proportionality test. Of course, the Chamber can always ask for this at that AMvB, if that key is not present at the time it is put forward. Either the Chamber can stop that or debate it. But the political groups I represent would like to grant the Minister the space that the Minister implicitly seems to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u35	Mr. Ganzevoort, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u36	Neither Mr Bruijn nor I speak on behalf of the entire Chamber. You're making things a little complicated by willing to say something if the Chamber asks you as a whole. In that case, we should put a motion on the table. That is a different conversation than when it is a promise. There's a question coming from the Chamber to do this. It is up to the Minister to observe that the Chamber attaches importance to this. That's different from "if the Chamber wants this." That's what makes things a little complicated. But I'd like to think a little bit about it. I can understand why you wouldn't want to do such a big PIA on all parts. The route mentioned by the Minister is that of the Authority Personal Data. I can imagine that we will also give the Dutch Data Protection Authority a voice in the question of when we find a PIA of interest and when we don't. That is different from just the political debate or the government wants it or the Chamber wants it to. I am asking that now, because precisely regulating the matrix I mentioned in the AMvB is a little more than just bringing these things together technically. That is where the decisions are made, and I would like to hear an independent test on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u37	My answer to the question that at least came from you was not intended to complicate things here. I just wanted to make it clear that it's just a weighting. We have no objection in principle to doing so. I even get the question. However, a large part of the information that now passes to the new law is identical to the past, and as far as that information is concerned, we have never talked about such matters in these terms. That is why we have chosen to let everything that comes with it be subjected to that test. Maybe there's a workable situation. We're just trying to figure out how to find a way together. In any case, we are going to follow the route of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. At least we agree that everything that's new will have to undergo that PIA test. Should the Dutch Data Protection Authority indicate in our direction that they feel that there is still a need to look further into the aspects of the AMvB, we will simply take that with us. So then it's actually just very practical looking for a workable path, without going to tear up a lot of things that we're going to have to say "it wasn't necessary, but thank you for doing it." Is that a passable road? As far as I am concerned, that would also be a route that we could take together. I'd be happy to hear that when you respond to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u38	May I ask the Minister how much longer he thinks he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u39	I think I have dealt with the most important aspect of privacy. Questions have also been asked to me about the flow of information to the Vo. Mr Bruijn in particular has drawn attention to this. Mr Bruijn responded to what my colleague and I had said in response to the written questions. There is a difference between primary and secondary education in relation to the proportionality of regulating the return of data. Mr Bruijn therefore pointed out that giving follow-up information to primary education was a matter of privacy. In principle, he is right: we also use that argument not to do it in vo. But the question is, what do you use that information for? I think that must be heavy, and then we will see a difference. The information that comes from the vo to the p.o. The aim, even with the school's brin number, is to increase everyone's awareness of the school advice given to the pupils concerned. They're very decisive. It's very important to be able to follow that for a while. A school can make mistakes. If, for example, it turns out that a large part of the population ends up quite differently than is advised, then something must happen. That was a justification for us for this in the case of data from the point of view of the p.o. I can do that. Data on career orientation are of course interesting, but ultimately not decisive for the choice made by the student, what he will do in the future. If he's doing something other than being part of that career orientation, that doesn't mean that career orientation wasn't good. There may be other reasons why the student concerned has decided to take a different path. Maybe they're in this room themselves, people who've been through that in their own lives. Sometimes that can really change. Then the question of proportionality is appropriate. Do we think it is justified that this kind of really personal data of students, when they have no influence on it, should be returned to the school? And does the school ask for it? We have not received any signals from the VO Council or from vocational schools that they would very much like to have these personal data. However, it is important that such data be aggregated and that you have explained yourself how we are now being recoupled. That's been happening for two years. The first year it was sent to all schools. In the second year, they've been given the space to request the data. 85% of schools have made use of this. I sincerely hope that this kind of data will be used much more, also for making choices in the school, because they really deliver a lot of data that you can actually do something with. We think that's enough. We also know from a lot of schools that they have made a little alumni-like contact with their former pupils. For example, they keep coming back and inquire how they are doing, they continue to follow the follow-up. So that is already being used. But the student himself gives permission to do so. So we don't think it's necessary to do it here. However, I am prepared to discuss with the VO Council and also with the MBO Council whether they think that this is enough, or that perhaps more is needed. You really have a point there: it's incredibly important that you follow it and that you also use that data to reflect on what you've done and on what you're going to do. I assure you that I will discuss this with the VO Council. I can do this even this week. I have an administrative meeting with them on the agenda this week, so we'll get this right away. Mr President, let me see if there are any questions left. Maybe finally, but then I am right at the beginning: is this legislation going to ensure that proactive links can be made or stopped? Again, it is clear that we are not going to change anything about the different registers that exist. The point is that you describe precisely the purposes for which the data is used and the ones that they are allowed to use. This is what happens for the main users in the law and for the smaller users in the AMvB. Then I think we will also ensure that there can be no improper use of it, because then we have precisely framed it. With all the privacy and security measures around it, I think we really have a close-up system with regard to working with this data. They are very important for monitoring students and also for certain policy decisions that we have to take. Finally, I would like to make one final point. I'm getting a nice piece of paper on post-primary education. That's not registered with DUO. So with that kind of data, we don't bother them. That is to add to the question put by Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u40	Thank you. Then we need the second term from the Chamber. I would ask the two spokesmen to be brief, given the fact that we are still facing a solid debate this evening. I call Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his clarifying answers and for the comprehensive way in which he has addressed the concerns that still exist in the political groups on which I am speaking. If I may say so, I congratulate the Minister on his maiden speech in this role in this Chamber. On the retention period, the political groups on whose behalf I am speaking share the concerns of the GroenLinks and SP groups. I understand from the Minister that anything new will at least undergo a PIA test and that, if the AP indicates that a deeper test is needed, it will also be done. With this commitment, I want to return positively to the groups I am speaking on behalf of. As regards the flow information, the Minister says that it may be possible for a student to deviate from the advice given in the p.o. For example, if the Cito test, or the final test, which fortunately is now mandatory, leads to an upward adjustment of the school advice. It then departs from the school advice, as the Minister himself outlines for the transition from education to higher education. That does not, of course, make the analysis any less interesting. Just when someone deviates from the advice, you could say, it is also very interesting to see what happens. Perhaps the student will end up much better if he doesn't follow the advice, for example. I don't quite understand the Minister's counter-argument. In any case, I welcome the Minister's commitment to table this with the VO Council and the MBO Council. I will advise the groups I represent today to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u42	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. I call Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u43	Mr President, thank you. I think the important questions are on the table. The intentions surrounding the law, including those in the political groups on which we speak, do not differ very much. I can justify not putting everything into the big law, especially for small consumers, as they are called. I do not feel that this is the case at all, because some of the major questions are not being worked out exactly. How does it go, for example, at the Ministry? How are anonymised and personalized data kept separate? To be honest, I do not find the answer to the retention periods entirely reassuring. The Minister is actually saying that if the law is amended, which means that retention periods are no longer necessary or that certain data are no longer required, the settlement of this is apparently a political agreement. That is something other than that it is a basic premise that data minimize is taking place. I would go a step further on this point and I would like to hear that it goes without saying that if certain data are no longer needed, they will indeed be deleted. Not because the legislator thinks of that moment that it is a good idea, but because it is just part of this law. The big question remains as far as we are concerned about the PIA. The Minister is trying a little hard to make something very big and heavy out of that. That is a bit of a pity, because we have tried to regulate it in the whole of the legislation in this area in such a way that we simply do it where it is necessary. From an instance that works with personal data we simply ask to make it clear where it is needed. Now that the government is asked, we say: it's very complicated, it's heavy and expensive, it takes a lot of time and it's a lot of work. I think that's a bit of a pity, because it actually means that "privacy by design," "privacy by default" is obviously not the attitude we're looking at. That's what worries me. Let's not overkill ourselves, but let's not fail ourselves either. Let us not fail our educational participants by being so complicated about a PIA in advance. You can do it very detailed, but you can also look at the questions that really matter. It is not just a technical change. We are talking about a changing world, where there are ever-new data and new data possibilities, and where more and more large-scale files, even though they may not be formally linked, do indeed unlock information along all kinds of lines and profiles. That's the kind of technique we're worried about right now. At the time some of these laws and registers were drawn up, those concerns may have been less serious, but today we are more concerned about that privacy. Then I am sorry if the Minister withdraws too much from that point of view. I would therefore ask him not to do that very big, heavy, huge PIA thing that he apparently has in mind, but to ask the AP for advice and to inform us about it, at the AMvB but also in general. What is needed and what is also possible to make a realistic assessment of the privacy risks? I believe that if the Minister is willing to commit to this, we will be able to move forward. Then I'll let him call it a PIA light for all I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I'm looking at the room. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. The Minister is able to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bruijn and Mr Ganzevoort for their second-term contributions. There are a few questions that have not been answered. First of all, a difference in weighting between what you do with information from the vo die voor het p.o. In the case of the school advice and what you do with the information from the vo towards MBO and HBO regarding the follow-up of students. When it comes to deviating from school advice, we know that the assessments made by teachers ultimately determine the way students will go. In the current system there is also a kind of second opinion that comes from the central test. That could be the Cito test, but you can also choose another provider. Indeed, the teacher's advice can still be changed if the test result is higher than what the teacher has estimated. You know that we are currently discussing whether we should keep it that way in the years to come. But that's the standing practice. Apart from what is ultimately the outcome and regardless of whether it is completely equal or perhaps still being adjusted, it is very important to continue to follow the following years to see if the student really is going to find his way in that route. You shouldn't do that for a year, but you really should follow that for a while. It is also important to have good information about this. In vo, with the routes that one eventually goes there, sometimes there are other considerations than the route as in the p.o. has taken place. That has been a consideration for us: do we think that this is so important that at person level data should be kept and returned in this way? We have said that we think that is a little too far, also because we have not reached any questions at that level. We have therefore chosen not to do so. But again, I am prepared to look with the VO-Council and the PO-Council to see if there is any additional need for information at aggregated level as it is already coming to them or which they can follow in agreements with the students themselves at the moment. Because that's what's happening, as I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u46	Mr. Bruijn, one question, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u47	The Minister now says "PO Council and VO Council." I assume the Minister means the MBO Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u48	Oh, yeah. Let's not bother the PO Council with this. They've got enough on their plate. With regard to the retention periods, I have indicated how they lie. That is how we dealt with it, also with the distinction in time limits with regard to the data relating to it. I have informed you that they are aligned with the AP. The AP considers that data should not be stored longer than is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. So you're going to have to make that very clear yourself. Then the PIA: I did not try to problem it, but I did want to take you into account for a moment in the fact that it is a step if you are going to release the PIA on all kinds of legislation from the past, which is now being put in a different jacket, but which basically doesn't change anything. If it's a lot of work and it costs a lot, but we think it's necessary with each other, of course we're just gonna do it. But here, too, we have considered that we did not see a very great need for this. We understood well that if new items were added, they would have to be taken into account at once and the PIA test would have to be released, regardless of whether that is a PIA-strong or a PIA-light. I have all kinds of other associations there, by the way, but that may be my fault. I heard you right. We're gonna get to work, at least with the PIA on the additional cases. We are going to ask the Dutch Data Protection Authority, in the context of the change that we are now making, what it considers necessary in relation to the PIA, even when it comes to the data that is now being transferred in a different way from the past. If I have understood you so well and if we work it out this way, I hope this will be very enthusiastic and very willing. I want you to understand what I'm saying. We think that's important, too. It is also not for us any minimizement of the subject of privacy, its protection, and security. In fact, you have also found this in our texts. We attach great importance to this, because we also understand very well that for those whose data this is, this must be done in a careful way, especially in the changing time when data leaks and, in a manner of speaking, daily in newspapers and via television screens come to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u49	Really short, Mr. Ganzevoort, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u50	It is quite an essential point, but I shall be very brief. I understand that you inform us about the advice to the AP with this context of changing time and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u51	Sure. The moment the AMvB goes to the House of Representatives, but he is also put before us here, we will of course answer for that. You can then judge whether you will find the effect as we have agreed here light or strong or whatever name you want to give it. Mr. Chairman. That's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u52	Then I would like to thank the Minister, close the debate and deal with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u53	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-10.u54	Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. I shall suspend the meeting pending the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection.
