ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on a quick solution to the problems of nitrogen and PMAS. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Infrastructure and Water, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Minister for Environment and Living and give Mr Wilders the floor as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have no nitrogen problem in the Netherlands; we have a Rutte problem. An incompetent Prime Minister who accepts or introduces insane rules from Brussels, who doesn't see it coming if it threatens to go wrong, then goes into hiding when things go wrong and calls for a solution for farmers and builders, and then comes up with a package of panic measures that the dogs don't like to eat and which now even gives him billions of claims. And there he is, in trade-K, the problem of the Netherlands, Prime Minister Rutte. The man for whom everything is negotiable and everything can be given away. The man who has only one principle: that he has no principles. Whether it's the mortgage interest deduction, the children's pardon, limiting mass immigration, no more money to the Greeks, €1,000 for the hardworking Dutchman or the maximum speed at 130 km/h, it all turned out to be lies and false promises. Just a few years ago, when the speed limit in the Netherlands went to 130 km/h in many places, Rutte said blundering for all cameras, and I quote: "Great, isn't it, that 130 km/h? It's delicious, isn't it? Fantastic! I'm very much in favour of the 130. A car that drives fast naturally pollutes less by definition, because it is faster at its destination." According to the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the Prime Minister is mainly looking to the left. The left-wing climate and environmental madness has crept into the VVD. It is no longer the hardworking Dutchman and the motorist who can count on the support of the VVD, but the hippies and the environmental fundamentalists of D66 and GroenLinks. From flavoring party to baking bike party. Because the VVD bends, the VVD turns, the VVD crawls, and the motorist who wants to keep driving, is now thrown into the ditch by them. Treason to the motorists, that's it. And so these 130 mile plates can all now be replaced by flashboxes to bacon the state greenhouse. Everyone can now bake with coupons and expect acceptance giros from the Central Justice Collection Agency at home on the mat, with Mark Rutte's signature underneath. Well, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you, VVD! Mr. Chairman. Not only the VVD, but half-administrative Netherlands seems to be going crazy. Whether it's about CO, nitrogen or pfas, everyone gets scared. Half the country is being locked up and hard-working people and healthy businesses are being destroyed. And why? Air quality in the Netherlands has improved dramatically since 1980, just as the quality of surface water has improved considerably and just as biodiversity in the Netherlands has not decreased, but has increased. Nature has therefore improved over the last few decades in the Netherlands, not only because of all those farmers, all those heroes, who have done a great job here. So stop panicking about nitrogen and nature. There is therefore no need for panic measures. Increase the standard with respect to pfas and do the same with respect to nitrogen. Now finally introduce a threshold that, as with our eastern neighbours in Germany, is around 7 moles. It cannot be that you are allowed to drive 180 km/h in Germany and that they have a limit value for nitrogen so high that no farmer, no builder, does not suffer from it at all, while here in the Netherlands we can take the baking bike to work and farmers and businesses get thousands of unexecutable rules fired on their own. Cut the crap, I'll tell Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has submitted, as constructive as we are, a temporary emergency nitrogen law, which I commend to colleagues. For six months no crippling nitrogen standards, so farmers can rebuild farmers, builders and the Netherlands can just keep driving 130 km/h. The cabinet will then have six months to find and introduce structural solutions, such as a halving of these Natura 2000 sites, but even better to introduce higher standards for nitrogen. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr Klaver van GroenLinks, who, according to Time Magazine, will become one of the new leaders of the Netherlands. Actually, Mr. Klaver, you're already a bit in trade-K. I don't know how you did that, but the Prime Minister, I don't know if you can pass that on to Time Magazine, and you are now carrying out all your agenda: open borders, more immigrants, climate laws, CO taxes, and now also reducing the speed limit. Of course, the image of Mr Klaver at the helm is a nightmare for us, but actually that nightmare is already there. There he is: Prime Minister Rutte is implementing the GroenLinks agenda. From midget to baking bike party: that's what he stands for now. He fooled everyone in the Netherlands. That is why, hopefully, there will be elections soon, because we need to reverse this very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Oh, Mr Harbers has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Wilders puts his emergency bill here in the window. The urgent problem is that construction workers are out of work at home for Christmas if measures are not taken quickly. Can Mr Wilders explain once again how his emergency law ensures that everyone has the assurance that construction workers do not come home unemployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	First of all, in our emergency law, we have arranged something to move that dredging soil and soil. I think the cabinet on that part is also doing something in the three different places in the country. We need to make sure that that stuff can be moved immediately. Not in three weeks, not in two weeks, no, now! I think that the standard now set at 0.1 can go to 1 or 1.5. For all I care, the Cabinet is doing the same thing now. As far as nitrogen is concerned, the cabinet rules; the cabinet should have seen this coming a long time ago. I also blame this Prime Minister, and that is why this Prime Minister is also the problem of the Netherlands, not the nitrogen. The nitrogen emissions have fallen dramatically. Look at that in a morning paper today. As you can see from that, you already knew that, of course, but the whole of the Netherlands knows that we have now seen a huge drop in nitrogen emissions in recent years. We don't have a nitrogen problem. I blame the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture and everyone there in trade union K for seeing that that goes wrong with those rules. The Prime Minister should have foreseen that something would happen at the Council of State. They didn't. And even when the Council of State came up with a verdict, they dived. The Prime Minister was somewhere under the table. You didn't see him. He dived, he didn't dare, and now comes up with a bunch of panic measures. That's what happens, and as far as we're concerned, it should never have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Since this is not an answer to my question, I will tell you what that emergency law does. I'm not against an emergency law. The cabinet comes with an emergency law and an emergency law, even better. What Mr Wilders is proposing in the Emergency Act is a notification of projects for the next six months, for the coming year. That doesn't eliminate the nature compensation. No, the price is getting much higher, because that's piling up. You'll still have to compensate in a year. But what certainty does Mr Wilders offer, his emergency law, to all those licence holders, the people who want to get a permit, who are at risk of going to court because others say: there is a permit, but there is no corresponding nature compensation? That was exactly the judge's verdict. That financiers withdraw is now happening in agriculture. Rabobank says we don't know what your license is worth. We want legal security. The task is only getting bigger. Mr Wilders' emergency law is tough, but he has no legal sustainability. You have to make an emergency bill that contains things that you can keep in front of a judge. Only then will you offer certainty to the licence holders and the associated construction workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	No. This law offers a great solution. I still believe that the Lower House is the boss in the country, not the judge. The judge can correct the Lower House, but we as legislator can also correct the judge. That's how it is. We make the laws here. If a judge doesn't apply the law properly, we can change that law here. The emergency law states that the limit value of nitrogen does not apply for a six-month period. It's possible! And indeed, instead of a licence requirement, there is a notification requirement. The moment you report your project, that's enough and you can get on with it. In that six months, the cabinet will have to work on solutions. My solution would be, let that be crystal clear, to raise that limit so that everyone can continue, as in Germany where they have chosen 7 moles. You have six months of air and there are no panic measures: the driver of your party does not have to go to 100 km/h, but can just keep driving 130 km/h, builders can build and farmers can farm. Six months without commitments and resting in the tent. After that six months, you're gonna make sure those nitrogen standards go up. If Germany can do that, so can we!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	If we can do that, then be tough and put in this law a proposal to increase those values. But neither does Mr Wilders. Mr Wilders is making it compulsory, and this only prolongs the list of what needs to be compensated in the future. Mr Wilders does not oppose this, otherwise he would have included a threshold in this law. That's a little too much tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	If the VVD wants to amend a higher threshold in the law in the process of dealing with this law or says to me "come forward with a letter of amendments with a higher threshold," we support that. Be my guest. We are going to settle this in two minutes after my input and I can report on it in the second term. Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	The bill was submitted to the Council of State this week, so the law comes if it's okay still to the Chamber for examination. Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	I just heard Mr Wilders say that a number of left-wing parties determine government policy. I have a question for Mr Wilders. His PVV group is helping incredibly to put the agenda of GroenLinks and a number of other parties in the cabinet. Let me give you two examples. The PVV Group supports almost all the motions from the left around plant protection. That is not in the interests of the farmer, not in the interests of the food supply and not in the interests of the citizens. That's what the PVV does. The other is animal welfare. In the Netherlands, our farmers are among the leading farmers in the field of animal welfare. What does the PVV Group do when there are motions from the Party for Animals? They're being blindly supported. My question to Mr Wilders is: how can you say that you stand in front of farmers if you make it impossible for farmers to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	This is the world upside down, isn't it? You come up with these measures, you destroy the peasantry, you have such a big mouth on the Malieveld with 'we are for the peasants' and in the meantime you sign all the crap that comes from the cabinet. The CDA is the unreliable one. Don't blame us for being in favour of animal welfare. Of course we are in favour of animal welfare! Which Dutchman is not for animal welfare? It's horrible, all those mega-stables where pigs sit in a half-meter-by-half-metre booth. They can disappear tomorrow. I spoke at the Malieveld when the farmers were there, not you. I don't even think you were invited because they don't like the CDA. Do you remember that? I spoke there! They were all young farmers aged between 20 and 30 who spoke there. There was no one there who had a problem with animal welfare. There was no one with such a terrible megastal. The PVV now stands up 100 times better for the farmers than the CDA, which suffocates the farmers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Wilders is going over the CDA with brutal force, at least that is what he is trying to do, but it is, of course, just madness what Mr Wilders is saying. In practice, it is a matter of the PVV raising the cost prices of farmers and of the PVV making food supply impossible in this way. Mr Wilders should be aware of this rather than saying that the GroenLinks cabinet is implementing policy. If that were the case, it would be supported by the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'm very curious to see what the CDA is about to do. You are right that the bill still needs to be dealt with, because it has been tabled this week. But what the PVV is doing is saying that the limit values for nitrogen do not apply, whether it is agriculture, housing or infrastructure. That's something the farmers need. You're no use to them at all. They're dropping you like a brick. You're not even welcome if they show up here. The CDA was once the party for the peasants, but has become a city party. That's what you've become.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Wilders always has the importance of the Netherlands and the Dutch highly in mind, but now we have landscapes in the Netherlands that we are proud of: the dunes, the heathen, the peat meadows, the floodplaats. If we do what Mr Wilders says, we're gonna lose it slowly. How does Mr Wilders view this? How does Mr Wilders look at the fact that he did not mention that we are dealing here with a ruling from the highest court in the Netherlands? He said: we need to protect nature better, because we have clean air and clean water for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	We have it in this country. We do. Stop scaring me! D66 stands for the scary business of the Netherlands. About your plants in those Natura 2000 areas or elsewhere, I have included a report from the Planning Bureau for the Government's Environment, at least a summary of it. That piece was published not so long ago, but it simply states that in the Netherlands biodiversity in both fauna and flora has not decreased in the last 30 years, but has increased significantly. That's in the compendium of the Plan Bureau for the Environment. Biodiversity is not a problem in the Netherlands, because it has increased. Okay, maybe you'll have a little more blackberry bushes and a little more trees and a little less peat, but biodiversity has generally increased. And then air quality. Interdepartmental policy research has been carried out and another piece has been published on this subject. I would just like to quote from it, because your colleague is asking you to do so, Mr President. "In recent decades, air quality in the Netherlands has improved significantly. The concentrations of nitrogen dioxide, but also of particulate matter, have all fallen sharply." Then we have the water quality. A nice report has also been published on this subject, from the RIVM in this case. The water quality of the Netherlands. It states that nitrate concentrations in water, including on farms, and in surface water, have greatly improved. So stop scaring me. With the air, with the groundwater, with about everything in the Netherlands things are getting better. Biodiversity is improving! You're scaring the Netherlands of nothing. Leave those people alone!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr Wilders tells half the story, because our nature is not doing well. And that will cause those beautiful landscapes, which we are all so proud of, to disappear and that nature will no longer flourish in them. This will lead to the disappearance of all oaks, such a beautiful Dutch tree. Already one in ten oaks is sick because of acidification of the soil. What Mr Wilders forgets to tell us is that we get 50 new cases of asthma every day because of too much nitrogen. So this is also about our health. And Mr Wilders did not comment on the fact that this is a ruling of the highest court in the Netherlands. With his emergency law, he very easily shoves that statement aside and also ignores the legislation we have all agreed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u18	First, the first question. Again, nitrogen is falling in the Netherlands. So don't come up with all that crazy that nature is all bad. Walk out, go to the heathen. It's more beautiful than ever. The Netherlands is a beautiful country. You're ruining it with all your crazyness and new measures. Then about the judge: we are the legislator. I admit, a judge can correct the legislator, but the legislator can also correct the judge. We're the highest organ here. We make the laws here. It's always been that way in the Netherlands. When the legislator considers that a law is misinterpreted or wrongly interpreted by the judge, we have the right to amend that law. That always happens, that's always happened. I'm making that proposal now, on a temporary basis. I am doing this on a temporary basis, also because I understand that it will increase the legal feasibility. After a six months of releasing these standards, so that farmers can rebuild farmers, builders and the Netherlands can drive again 130 km/h, we have to make sure that you are right in saying that we are raising the standards, that the standards are getting higher, that things are getting better. Nitrogen is not a major problem in the Netherlands, because it is falling and there is more biodiversity. So you scare people. There's no need for that. As legislator, we have the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u19	I conclude that Mr Wilders throws nature before the lions, compromises the health of the Dutch by simply ignoring her, and ignores the ruling of the highest judge in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u20	And I notice that D66 doesn't know the law of the state. The legislator always has the last word in the Netherlands if he so wishes. I also note that D66 is driving the Dutch mad and scared and that farmers are going to go bankrupt. I note that D66 is pleased that the builders, who are now coming to the cabinet with a billion-dollar claim, are losing their jobs, thanks to these crazy measures. You do this because of three plants, which may be replaced by three other plants, because that's what nitrogen does. Indeed, the landscape is changing. Nature doesn't die, it changes. Plants disappear and other plants occur instead. There's nothing wrong with that. This has been the case for millions of years in the Netherlands and in the rest of the world. This cabinet destroys the Dutch, destroys the farmers and grabs the drivers. It needs to disappear as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you have a problem, it usually doesn't help to pretend that that problem doesn't exist. It doesn't help to look away, it doesn't help to dive and it doesn't help to hope that someone else will solve it for you. This will only make the problem worse and more difficult to solve. With this prime minister the Malieveld flows every week full of builders, with farmers, with teachers, with workers in care. They are people who feel the effect of the cabinet and pastors of the cabinet who for years ignored difficult issues and threw them out for themselves. That's exactly what happened to both nitrogen and pfas substances. The Netherlands has had a nitrogen problem for years, for decades, but instead of ensuring sustainable livestock farming with fewer animals, it was always believed in magical mathematical models and technical miracle remedies. Even though measurements have long shown that the reality did not match the theory, even though scientists, lawyers and nature organisations, as well as opposition parties including the SP, have consistently warned for years that things were getting out of hand. And the Netherlands already had a pfas problem, because for decades industry was not put in the way of dumping and illegally exporting crap. Again and again economic interests for nature, the environment and public health went on and on, although the signals were red. How embarrassing is it actually that judges are needed to ensure that a cabinet finally does something about the protection of nature and public health in this country? How terrible is it that a country has to lock up for six months before the cabinet finally comes up with a first solution, with the beginning of a solution? That's not a theoretical discussion. While the coalition was working among itself and investigations were being carried out that should have taken place six months ago, companies and jobs threatened to disappear and hundreds of thousands of homes remain unbuilt. Houses that are desperately needed. The first question I would like to put to the Prime Minister is: can he make an assessment of the economic damage suffered by the Netherlands, because it took him and his cabinet six months to arrive at an initial response to the ruling? The key question is, why did this take so long? What happened in the summer months? Has the cabinet really been sitting on its hands, waiting for an opinion from the Remkes Committee? Why have not all the legal options in the area of temporary thresholds been examined immediately? Why didn't we start remedial measures in nature reserves right away so we could get some breathing space? Why didn't we start setting up a buy-out scheme for all livestock farms near nature reserves? Why weren't all the big incriminating companies immediately represented, so we've got that sharp now? And why did it take demonstrations of farmers and builders, fighting between the minister and provinces, and critical journalists in almost every newspaper and every current affairs programme before the Prime Minister got involved? Mr. Chairman. We finally got a set of short-term measures yesterday morning. As far as the SP is concerned, it is good if we can at least take temporary measures to ensure that it is rebuilt, even if those measures will hurt some people. But the half-threat to mess with our nature reserves, to limit them or even to make them disappear: I hope that this is what it looks like, that is, kettle music for the stage, so that the right flank of the coalition still has something to show desperately to its supporters. Because the Minister of LNV has made it very clear to us several times in this Chamber that adapting Natura 2000 sites is hardly legally feasible. I trust that the cabinet will remain consistent and united in this area and will maintain this position. There are some very mysterious things in this proposal. This applies, for example, to the choice to allow seven infrastructure projects under the MIRT to go ahead and thus to give up part of the limited nitrogen space we have. We are going to let the Netherlands drive slowly and then create space for the construction of asphalt that produces more nitrogen. That is totally counterproductive. It's a strange way of thinking. Why was this chosen? And why these seven? That is not clear at all. Why is this list of projects so important? Mr. Chairman. To really solve the nitrogen problems for the long term, we need to get to the source. When it comes to pfas, that is the polluting industry; when it comes to nitrogen, it is mainly intensive livestock farming. My final question for this cabinet and specifically for the Prime Minister: is he prepared to really address the sources for the longer term? Or are we going to go back on the same foot, like there's really no problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the first measures of the cabinet to bring nature back into balance with the economy. That's good, because D66 believes that the economy can't live without nature. After all, clean air and clean water are priceless. They're free for everyone now. That is why D66 would like to hear from this cabinet how it is going to achieve a robust and legally sustainable nature policy. After all, in 1992 we agreed that the nature network would be realized in 2018. That's 2027 now. Are we gonna make it? The PBL wrote already in 2012 that our nature policy is at best able to slow down the decline, but not to reverse the decline. We need to designate 17% of the Netherlands as Natura 2000 sites, while we have designated only 13%. Only 4% of our nature is in good conservation condition. Does the government have an idea of what resources and measures are needed to achieve this good conservation status? If we don't settle this, the economy will be brought to a halt again. You don't want that honor as Prime Minister twice, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u25	D66 now begins with nature, but in the letter from the cabinet that the coalition initially presented, it says: we are out. It agrees that we must intervene in nature. D66 agrees that we should be able to remove natural areas when the value of nature is so under pressure that we can no longer save them. Could Mr De Groot perhaps give us some explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr Klaver has said it well: this whole exercise of the PAS is about improving our nature. It is logical that, in this debate on nature, the group of D66 should also discuss nature. Ultimately, we must have a nature with which we will meet our international obligations. I have just read out what that means for D66 and how important it is to achieve a robust and legally sustainable nature policy. That's right. That's where I start my introduction. That is what this debate is about, and that is what the letter from the cabinet is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u27	This is not the beginning of an answer. Then we've really read another letter. On page 5, there's a piece of nothing. I've had to read that ten times to understand what it says. In the end, you will see that this cabinet wants to intervene in nature. For this cabinet, which you are part of, it is an option to delete nature reserves. Mr Dijkhoff did not sit at Pauw crying yesterday when he said that we should not drive 130 km/h anymore, but I saw that his eyes started to sparkle when it came to the agreement that nature could be removed. That is what has been agreed; that is what D66 has agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr. Klaver makes a caricature of what's in there. The point is that you have to improve, connect and enlarge the nature areas we have, so that nature in the Netherlands is in a good condition and of sufficient size. That is how you should read that paragraph and that is how you can read it. You can ask that question to anyone. Ultimately, it is about having that robust and legally sustainable nature policy in the Netherlands and achieving that good state of affairs. If it is necessary to make these areas more robust, then there are no taboos for D66 either. For example, putting a connection zone around it was originally intended to also install a buffer. Or by saying in the extreme case: we cannot save this nature reserve, because it is impossible to save it with the best will of the world and with all the tax money we have, but we can realize it elsewhere in a robust way that ultimately means we are going to save that nature; on balance, a better nature. You pretend it's an end in itself, but it certainly isn't. The goal is to strengthen nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u29	Yes, you can read the letter differently. The whole idea of cabinet policy is that it is united. While keeping your story about how we're going to strengthen nature, I can clearly see that they're shaking at the VVD: no, it's been agreed that we can see how we can reduce nature in the Netherlands. That's a deal. That's possible, because sometimes you have to compromise. I do not understand that compromise at all, but be honest about it. It has now been agreed that action can be taken in nature and that some areas do not need to be Natura 2000 sites because we could also protect them in another way. That's what this letter says, and it's agreed. With that nature has become outlawed and for that you are responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u30	This whole letter breathes the ambition of D66 and the cabinet to improve and strengthen nature. That is also the first sentence in the nature paragraph you mentioned. You shop selectively. It is about ultimately improving, connecting and strengthening nature, so that we meet our international obligations. Because otherwise there's no point in doing this whole exercise. After all, we are dealing with a ruling by the highest judge in the Netherlands that we need to improve nature. If that means doing what it says, and if it is realistic, then we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u31	I agree with Mr De Groot that this letter breathes the natural ambition of D66, namely: nil. I have a very specific question about the text. It simply says that the designation decisions of the Natura 2000 sites are being reviewed and that they are being cleaned up. It seems that this is why we are sending the Minister to Brussels. That's bullshit, isn't it? The Minister is going to be laughed at when she says, on behalf of the country that conducts Europe's worst nature policy, that we would like to review our decisions in order to make it easier. Then we'll be laughed away, won't we? D66 will see that, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u32	I must say to Mr Futselaar that if you only go to Brussels with a list of nature areas that we want to delete, which is obviously an exercise of nothing, because you do not have a story of how you are going to strengthen that nature and how you are going to achieve the goals we have agreed with each other. There is therefore no point in going to Brussels with just that story; Mr Futselaar is right. But I repeat, the context of the letter is to strengthen and improve our nature. That's what the cabinet's gonna do, and that's how you should read that passage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u33	I note, therefore, that we are sending a minister to Brussels with a letter containing mainly temporary measures and asking to be able to cut our natural values permanently, which Brussels has said on several occasions that we are dealing with far too badly. That's unfeasible. However, I would like to draw D66's attention to all the other dossiers that we are currently having to negotiate in Brussels: the derogation, the Nitrates Directive that we are not achieving, the pulse file, the future of Dutch fishing with the Brexit. We must all have things from Brussels and now we are going to burn political capital by sending a minister with an unfeasible mission to Brussels. That's crazy, isn't it? Isn't that a mischief?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u34	Yes, if you read selectively in that paragraph, that would indeed be the case. That would also be toying with fire, because you would indeed be at risk of losing such a derogation because the irritation in Brussels is too great. An attempt has already been made in 2013 to re-identify nature reserves or to make designation decisions. It is also no secret that the Minister has said earlier that, at the time you are going to do so, that can only be done if a mistake has been made at the time of the designation, or if the area is beyond your control, if you have done everything you can to save it. In that context, you can only read this paragraph. But again, the whole letter, the whole exercise is aimed at improving and restoring nature. As far as D66 is concerned, this concerns not only the improvement but also the connection and expansion of nature reserves. That is what the international agreement we have made is for 17% of the territory to be designated as Natura 2000. That deal's still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u35	I don't read selectively from this letter. I'm literally quoting from this letter. That's the difference. I note now that we have the situation that the self-appointed most pro-European party in this Chamber is about to send a minister with an unfeasible mission that we all know is sending to Brussels, just to ensure that some coalition parties do not suffer too much loss of face. That's not a decent way of driving, is it? You can't seriously suggest that, can you? It's ridiculous what's written here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u36	I don't hear a question. I'll hear a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u37	D66 now pretends that the cabinet is committed to strengthening nature, but that doesn't prove anything. I fully agree with what Mr Futselaar is talking about. D66 knew that very well. When Balkenende tried to get rid of the Natura 2000 agreements, we were laughed at. When that was tried under Rutte I, we were laughed at. D66 stood here, at the interrupting microphone, telling what Mr Futselaar just said: you're not getting away with it. I have the next question to D66. I hear Mr De Groot again saying that the cabinet must ensure a legally sustainable approach. How long is this game gonna last? We have already been pointed out by the experts that this weather is not sustainable, that the cabinet is still breaking the law, that it is a PAS 2.0, actually worse than the PAS, and that the longer you wait, the worse things are going on with nature. What's D66's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u38	The answer is short: in December, the measures you are now asking for will simply come and this is a step in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u39	D66 is part of the coalition. I can imagine a handshake being done in the back room. But there's also something like dualism. The D66 group should therefore ask the cabinet: how can it be that six months after the Council of State's ruling, you do not have the beginning of a legally sustainable approach, you do not have the beginning of how we can comply with the law and have solved only 0.6% of the problem? Why isn't that D66's input? Why does she support this cabinet, that commitment to nature degradation? There's asphalt coming up, if it's these four!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mrs Ouwehand wants a large hutspot of solutions at once, immediately and equally quickly. This is a difficult renovation of the Netherlands. You want a hut spot, but this is a seven-course dinner. We're working on the amuse right now. In this step, extra money for nature has already been arranged: 250 million. In this step, 30% of all source measures already benefit nature. And then we're just at the beginning. That's the way we're going. D66 will be careful to ensure that this whole exercise ultimately leads to us having a good nature policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u41	Let me ask you one more question: how long is it gonna take? The letter came yesterday. Yesterday, the analysis was made by all nature conservation experts, who have always been right so far since the tricks with the PAS: this package is legally equally untenable. This cabinet doesn't comply with the law. This cabinet does not comply with the commitments of the Biodiversity Convention, of which D66 says: we must have a "Paris" for nature. The Cabinet doesn't do any of that. And then I hear the D66 group say: we want the cabinet to do so. Then check it out now! Nature suffers in silence, said Mr De Groot earlier, and the number of animals in the Netherlands should be reduced by half. Where are these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u42	They're coming in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u43	We're talking hut spot and a seven-course dinner. This is about a letter that D66 explains in a certain way. Mr Geurts will be speaking shortly and Mr Harbers will be speaking. They're gonna give it another explanation. Doesn't D66 just honestly admit that a letter has been made here that has been passed through the bullshit generator, so that everyone can read in it what they want, while there is now great confusion in the country, which is seriously undermining the trust of the people in this country? Does Mr De Groot share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u44	No, the whole context of this letter and of this whole exercise around the PAS is to strengthen and improve nature in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yeah, that's the explanation for D66. But there's gonna be another explanation from CDA and VVD. I would just like to point out here that this is undermining confidence in the country. This government and this coalition should simply radiate unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u46	I shall continue with my speech, Mr President. It is now time to restore balance between economy and nature. The government is making a good start by reducing nitrogen emissions. In doing so, it is based on the assumption that 30% of this reduced nitrogen precipitation benefits the strengthening of nature. The question is whether the government will take the good state of a certain Natura 2000 site as a starting point for the area-oriented measures that will come in December and draw up land plans on the basis of them, and see what economic activities are still possible in the vicinity of a Natura 2000 site in order to ultimately reduce the good conservation status. Mr. Chairman. It's good to go 100 km/h. Does the cabinet think about excluding electric cars from this? It is good to combat the literally overfeed of animals with too much protein. How is the cabinet going to ensure these measures? How is the cabinet going to clarify the necessary movements in the areas of feed, manure and soil as soon as possible? How can circular agriculture and technology play a role in this? As far as pfas is concerned, I would like to congratulate the Cabinet on its approach, which puts public health and the environment first, without prejudice to the interests of business. That's how you balance economics and ecology. Can we conclude that dumping slightly polluted sludge in nature reserves is a thing of the past? It is a good thing that this measure will help the government to protect nature and restore housing. I'm rounding up. The Netherlands has lived too long on the puff of Mother Nature. It has already been said: plants and animals do not go to The Hague, they do not block roads, they die in silence. That's what D66 stands for. But I want to end up positive. This crisis also has a good side. It is an opportunity to put our economy on a sustainable footing and restore balance. Remkes says not everything is possible. D66 says there can be more, but then it has to be smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u47	I have a question about the cabinet letter. It states, among other things, that the nitrogen deposition of road traffic beyond a few kilometres is no longer meaningfully measurable. Does Mr De Groot agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u48	If you look at the total nitrogen emissions of NO and ammonia in the Netherlands, it is about half too high. We just have too much nitrogen. Wherever you drive your car, nitrogen emissions will always affect nature. So yes, it is the most striking in the environment of nature reserves, but that does not prevent it from contributing to the total nitrogen blanket. What we need to do is really think about how we can have an economy, where you can drive a car and have economic activities, but in balance with nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u49	Those are a lot of words to acknowledge that Mr De Groot agrees with what is in the cabinet letter. He therefore agrees that the nitrogen deposition due to road traffic outside a few kilometres from the source is no longer measurable. That is what Mr De Groot admits. My follow-up question is then whether Mr De Groot agrees with me that this should also apply to other projects and sources, such as the agricultural sector. There too it is not measurable outside a few kilometers. Does Mr De Groot agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u50	I thought this question would come. Neither car traffic nor ammonia emissions are such that it only falls in the environment. There's a nitrogen blanket across the Netherlands that we need to do something about. The Netherlands is a large net exporter of nitrogen to the countries around us. We need to do something about that. All economic sectors will have to contribute to this. It concerns transport, housing and also agriculture. We will have to get back together in the emissions not only of nitrogen but also of climate gases. You have to take the whole picture, because the next issue is fine dust, which also has to do with ammonia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u51	Once again, I note that Mr De Groot says: I see double standards; I recognise that road traffic is treated differently when it comes to nitrogen emissions and deposition than the agricultural sector, because that is where it is measured infinitely. My question then is from where we measure. We agree that the necessary action must be taken on nitrogen emissions and nitrogen deposition. Congratulations. But what is the reason for double standards in the agricultural and road sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u52	It is good that the SGP also recognises that we need to move towards a more sustainable economy with less nitrogen emissions and less ammonia emissions. That's profit. I don't see double standards. Both substances behave differently in the air, but all sectors will have to contribute to reducing nitrogen blankets in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u53	Your fourth question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u54	No more questions, but a point of order. I find it regrettable that Mr De Groot is making caricatures of the position that the SGP has always taken very carefully and he is putting on the SGP a sticker that does not deserve the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u55	Okay, excuse me, so the SGP is for more nitrogen emissions and more ammonia and for a little less stewardship for Creation. I'm afraid that's annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you, as a resident in this country, be sure that you can get a home in the foreseeable future? Can these properties be built? A contractor, can he guarantee the employment of his employees? 'Cause there's plenty of work, but the licensing's completely shut down. We need to reduce nitrogen emissions as quickly as possible to start housing, to prevent thousands of people from entering unemployment and also to prevent nature from going to the gallemies. Today the question is whether this cabinet package is sufficient. The answer of the PvdA to this is: not at all, not at all! If we open the Volkskrant this morning and look at the website of the RIVM, it is clear that this package is not sufficient for the west of the country in which the housing shortage is highest. The VNG also sends out the signal that they have no confidence in the effectiveness of this package. RIVM writes that the government's feed measure will only be effective by the end of 2020. The NVWA, the broken-down service, has to see if farmers are going to give the right feed to their cattle. This raises serious questions about the effectiveness of this package. The Minister of IenW has said that speed controls will not be intensified, because she says that it is only to increase road safety and not to protect the environment. My question to the cabinet is: what additional measures does the cabinet have on the table and can the cabinet guarantee that housing will start? Is the cabinet, is the Minister for Housing prepared to commit her fate that this package of measures will have the effect of building 75,000 homes in the Netherlands next year? Mr. Chairman. Governing is forward-looking. And then I come to the role of the Prime Minister. It is responsible for policy coordination. He says he's dealing with the biggest crisis. But why did he ignore the signals for so long? Why has surgery been so slow? After all, last November, the European Court of Justice put the traffic light on dark yellow. Why wasn't that anticipated? Why is nothing done with all the signals coming from the coalition? Great division, concept of circular agriculture. They do characterize it as a nice treat, but if you scratch off that treatment, there is a policy behind it that is explained completely differently by the coalition partners that make up this government. Mr. Chairman. I am so intrusive in asking these questions because there has been great unrest in the country. The farmers are freaking out. I do not always agree with their views and their arguments, but I take their anger and emotions seriously. Their security of existence is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u58	Before you proceed, Mr Baudet has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u59	Stoplight on dark yellow? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u60	The Council of State has a so-called...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u61	I mean "dark yellow." What's dark yellow? What's a traffic light on dark yellow? What the hell is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Baudet knows that a traffic light has three colours: red, yellow and green. I would like to point out that last year the European Court of Justice gave a very clear indication in the so-called answer to the questions referred by the Council of State that nitrogen policy, the implementation of the PAS as the Netherlands did, was not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u63	You mean something between orange and red.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u64	That's the explanation you can give.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mr. Chairman. Unity of policy is important to maintain confidence in this country. Did the signals get through to the Prime Minister? Didn't he look at a blind spot too long? Didn't he look away too laconically? Is his antenna well tuned? I very much appreciate a reflection on the part of the Prime Minister. I am so intrusive because I am very concerned about the division of groups in society. On the one hand, we see the Edge City high-educated environmental and social-conscious groups, and on the other hand in rural areas we see that fewer and fewer people understand what the policy of this cabinet is. In the countryside there is a lot of dormant discontent. We also see this internationally. The Netherlands is a small country. Wim Kok has once said: The Netherlands is actually too small for the periphery. I am very concerned about that. The unequal distribution of wealth and opportunities between, on the one hand, a highly developed urban environment and, on the other hand, rural areas is undermining society. We see in rural areas that the level of provision is increasingly deteriorating. The agricultural sector is an important carrier of the rural economy. How are we going to prevent, with the netting that is envisaged, the purchase of nitrogen space by companies buying up very deep-brokered developers and the destruction of rural areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u67	I've been diving in the archives a little bit. I have here a motion for a resolution by Mr Samsom/Koopmans on the PAS and some letters of Parliament, signed by Mrs Dijksma and Mr Van Dam, also on the PAS, I believe from the PvdA. I'm not going to say that D66 is doing it all perfectly, but could you just reflect on that motion and those letters, maybe with the knowledge of the present, if that's all been such a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u68	The Programmatic Approach Dust has been an attempt to connect ecology and economics: on the one hand, protecting ecology and, on the other hand, giving room for economic development. That system of the PAS is by the Council of State and by the European Court of Justice... It could get the green light. However, far too much of a mortgage on the future has been taken into account in the implementation. We must now draw conclusions from this. So does the PvdA. I tabled a motion earlier this year calling on the Minister to develop scenarios to phase out livestock farming. That motion was not supported by D66. A few months later, D66 comes out of the hip with the proposal to clean up only 50% of livestock production in the Netherlands. So with regard to the PAS, I take responsibility for the past. The PvdA takes responsibility for the past. But that does not relieve us of the duty to sail out in time for the storm. I'm just finding that this government doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u69	I have not actually heard any reflection, except that it is a good thing that Mr Moorlag indicates to take responsibility for the past. But the problem of the PAS was precisely that Mother Nature's puff was lived on. Would you mind reflecting on that for a second? For it was embedded in all the beautiful plans which your rulers have presented. I think it would be a good idea to take a look back and look at your input with the knowledge of the present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u70	This is going in the ambiance of you-baking. The PAS was adopted in the Chamber with broad support at the time. However, if the judge indicates that the European judge did so last year already because the implementation of the system is not sustainable, then you have to change course in time. I note that this coalition has refused to do so and that this coalition has wasted a year and is not moving until the licensing process is completely stalled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u71	Your last question, I say, Mr. De Groot. Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Oh, no, you weren't done. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr. Chairman. My point is: how do we prevent groups in the Netherlands from drifting further and further apart and how do we prevent the countryside from decaying? My question to the cabinet is whether, in addition to the package to support the farmer, we are also prepared to make a broad package to maintain the economic vitality and viability of rural areas. Mr President, concluding. A better package of measures must be put in place, housing must be set in motion and employment guaranteed. Finally, I would like to put one question to the Prime Minister. That's the question: how's his vase? Has that gone to shit on the Malieveld or has it been locked up in Fort Knox to protect it from the great social unrest? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u73	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I'd better drop the door in the house. Reading the cabinet letter and the RIVM sheets, I ask myself in a spirit where common sense is. The construction of 75,000 homes will add only 0.3 mol nitrogen per hectare to additional deposition. What's this about? One whole lake poops once in one day and the whole extra deposition space for those acres is lost. What's this about? That's how much nitrogen is in one goose chop. This 0.3 mole falls in it not at the background depositions from 1,000 to 2,000 moles. And cumulatively, that's nothing. I still have to meet the first scientist to find this deposition in the field through measurement, let alone damage Natura 2000 sites. Mr. Chairman. Why all this fuss when the Habitats Directive simply allows this housing? Why didn't the cabinet and the provinces immediately start with area-specific thresholds, starting at 0.05 moles? "Yes, that cannot be," "legally unsustainable," "Brussels." There has not yet been a serious attempt to do so. Honestly, with all due respect to our friends in the cabinet and beyond, of course, it gives us the impression that the cabinet is stiffened like a rabbit in those approaching headlights, while that rabbit must of course skip away and do its thing. Mr. Chairman. The RIVM images are clear. 100 km/h close to Natura 2000 sites would be sufficient to detach housing in a large part of the Netherlands. Only the Randstade dunes throw soothe in the food. That's why the Zeeuws and the Groningers only have to drive 100 km/h. You wonder why the cabinet doesn't choose to draw a line through those race races in the Zandvoort dunes. For the first time, the SGP agrees with a reduction in the maximum speed near the Natura 2000 sites and on more busy routes. But you wonder how effective this measure is in Groningen, if you have to build in the Randstad. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of agriculture. In our perception, reading in the cabinet letter, agriculture is particularly sorry. For the time being, the sector is at risk of having to turn in mainly for the benefit of other sectors. The cabinet wants to force a nitrogen-poor feed. What is the opposite and how is it maintained? To what extent does the development space created by this go back to agriculture? Apparently, the cabinet wants to continue to take away authorised space at salading and to take away production rights. That is a huge obstacle to external netting and it also locks down sustainable business development. It creates great uncertainty, especially among young farmers. Mr. Chairman. This is not the right path. Yes, there are possibilities for emission reductions in agriculture, certainly. Many entrepreneurs are already working on this and there are many opportunities. I am thinking of less fertilizer use, more grazing and aeration and dilution of manure. But I call on the cabinet to turn the button and opt for constructive agricultural policy rather than agricultural policy that harms the sector. Investing in good nature management? Yes. Investing in emission reduction? Yes. But I'd like to have common sense and a sober look. Then we'll get farther. Mr. Chairman. A small comment on pfas, because that is the same thing. There has been a switch in the cabinet, but there is no workable standard yet. The need for earthmoving is so high that a more flexible standard is needed immediately and not only in three weeks' time. This can then be adjusted on the basis of further research. Mr President, first of all, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Nature belongs to no one, nature is a value within itself, which you should fundamentally want to protect because of that intrinsic value. If you do not want that, it is important to know that everyone is completely dependent on nature and biodiversity. Nature can do very well without people, but without nature we can't make it. Everyone, including Mr Baudet, also Mr Wilders, also the people of the CDA and also the people of the VVD: without nature it is quickly over. So protect nature, otherwise you will put yourself and your children, other generations, in great danger. We're the worst little boy in the class when it comes to protecting nature. Not only does this cabinet refuse to opt for a good nature policy on its own, it says: no, we will only do so if the rest of Europe joins in. Or the rest of the world, by the Convention on Biodiversity. All right, let's do it like this. Then you make a deal about it, and then the cabinet doesn't stick to it. The fact that nitrogen policy has proved to be legally untenable is in fact The Hague's jargon: the cabinet does not comply with the law, it simply does not comply with the law. Could the Prime Minister perhaps pay more attention instead of looking at his phone? Oh, he hears everything. It does not seem to me to be a good signal if the government does not comply with the law, even if it is about collective values on which we all depend, on which our children depend. Again, nature is something you have to want to protect for the sake of itself. A few examples of those appointments that make the cabinet good, but we're not going to make it. In 2010, the loss of plant and animal species would be stopped. We did not even agree to this at European level, that was the Convention on Biodiversity. What happened? We're not gonna make it. And then there's always the trick: you know what, we're taking new targets for 2020, with more ambition, trust us, we're committed to nature recovery. A bit of the story of D66, say: we are for nature and we are going to do it well. No way. The Minister of LNV has once again admitted that the new targets for 2020 are not being met either. What kind of government is that? Citizens have to bring this to their employer: I'm gonna do this, and I'm not gonna deliver your work every time. They'll be fired immediately. Mr. Chairman. I don't see any trace of nitrogen shame in the Prime Minister's office yet. While it was this Prime Minister and his party, actually all parties in this Chamber, with the exception of GroenLinks, SP and the Animal Party, who agreed to a nitrogen policy with stacks of reports from not the least who said: this cannot be done, this cannot be done within the limits of the law, it is going to go wrong; if that happens, your whole country is locked up and then construction also has major problems. We've all been warned about that and everyone thought it was a good idea. The Prime Minister said yesterday at Nieuwsuur: there was simply political support for it. Oh, then suddenly it doesn't matter if it's within the law? I want to hear from the Prime Minister what's more important to him. That there is political support, that parties like it, because they can tell the voter that we can go on with 130, with even more stables, with even more building? Or does he think it's his job to make sure his cabinets comply with the law? It's either one or the other. If the Cabinet has to abide by the law once, if it has to keep its agreements and if it has to do what it has been adopted for once, namely to make choices that will keep this country viable for the long term, to protect collective values, then suddenly it is the worst crisis that the Prime Minister has ever experienced in his career. Imagine what that says about the government. The Prime Minister is still fretting with that phone, Mr. Chairman. I think that's a really bad signal. He hears everything, he says, but he's not impressed. What kind of signal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u77	I'm afraid to confiscate his phone, because I don't know what kind of messages are coming in. But I do call on the Prime Minister to listen carefully to the input of all Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u78	Let's just say it's telling. It is also significant that, according to this Prime Minister and the VVD, we have to feel very sorry for people who are not able to drive anywhere for 130 km/h. It's kind of at the bottom of their list of measures they like. They don't like it, but there might be things even less fun. The Party for Animals also has a list. Firstly, we do not have any sympathy for those who have taken care of this situation and those who have taken care of it themselves. Yeah, that the construction's stuck right now. You have to explain that this risk has been taken knowingly by yourself! Have the guts to do that. Mr. Chairman. Then the real victims. Those are not the drivers, that is not the VVD, which now has to sell a difficult measure to its electorate. The real victims are nature and animals, which are locked in pot-tight stables with air scrubbers on the roof. Because that is what the government is committed to: even more subsidies for livestock farming, not to substantially reduce the number of animals in the Netherlands and to ensure that they can go into the meadow and breathe a little fresh air. No, locked in pot-tight stables with expensive, non-working air scrubbers on the roof. I understand the Prime Minister's going to Deurne tonight. I've been there before. As soon as you get off the train, you'll be caught by the ammonia fumes. Imagine you're a pig that has to breathe those fumes in the stable 24 hours a day. Those animals have pneumonia, they have pleural inflammation, they literally get death and death sick. Perhaps the Prime Minister should spend a week in one of these stables and put an end to these new subsidies to livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u80	Mr. Chairman. When I went into local politics, I could not have dreamed of what dilemmas I would face regularly after my transition to national politics. That the challenges we face today are great, no one will deny. In doing so, we must continue to look for practical solutions. The cabinet was and is urged to come up with proposals to deal with the problem of nitrogen as soon as possible, so that the country gets back on its feet and people can get back to work. Mr. Chairman. Today there is a proposal that aims to ensure that construction is carried out smoothly. The construction is stuck on nitrogen and on pfas standards. The assessment we have to make today is whether this will trigger the licensing process, so that builders can build and dredgers can dredging. Could the Prime Minister indicate when the permit for construction projects will be possible again when the first kick can hit the ground? Mr. Chairman. There is a land shortage and problems with land disposal. Can both the construction sector and the dredging sector really get back to work, I ask the cabinet. Can permits for, for example, sand extraction in the North Sea be issued again? Mr. Chairman. In the reduction of speed, clarity towards the motorist and the motorcyclist is crucial. The CDA has called for speed to be indicated via the matrix boards. I assume this is gonna be taken care of soon. Mr. Chairman. Infrastructure and housing are closely interwoven. It is good that, for example, the widening of the A27/A12 Ring Utrecht continues. Because due to the sound screens included in this broadening, additional homes can be built. Mr. Chairman. 250 million extra for nature management, adaptation of protected status, clean up designation decisions, delete added habitat types and no Natura 2000 land sites etc.: all these measures are supported by the CDA. The fragmentation of many small protected nature areas is unsustainable. Better nature management and restoration requires reclassification. A good example of this is the Overijsselse Wierdense Veld. How is the Minister going to shape this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u81	My question to the CDA is about the impact on farmers. Because the analysis of the package that the cabinet has now presented is that farmers need to turn in more, because there is a need to expand again at Amelisweerd and because the cabinet is going to build biomass plants again, which in turn creates additional nitrogen emissions. And left or right, somewhere it has to go down. That's what the law says. As far as Formula One is concerned, I have not yet heard the cabinet say that we should not do that. What does the CDA actually think about it, knowing that the derogation is also at stake now, because the European Commission says: we do not really believe in these nitrogen measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u82	Around this package I see a feed measure. I'll be right back to that, in the next part. As I have read, it is a target regulation and it is up to the professionalism of farmers to implement it. For the rest, I do not see so much as a task for agriculture in this package at the moment. But perhaps Mrs Ouwehand will see it and I have overlooked it. I'd love to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u83	No, there is no problem at all for agriculture. That's very bad, because the ammonia from livestock farming is the biggest causer. But apart from the fact that the number of animals has to go down sharply, the Animal Party has always talked about other sectors. So that's what I miss at the CDA. Then you cannot, for example, build new biomass plants, which will increase nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands. Then you can't make it to broaden the way at Amelisweerd anyway. Then you can't make it to do the formula one. That is what I am asking the CDA, because if you do not do all that, the task for agriculture will be greater and more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u84	I think that biomass will still be discussed in full in the Economic Affairs budget. I saw that a motion was passed in the First Chamber. I've also seen that I've been asked what the impact of that is. So I think we're still going to have that discussion. I also think it is right to point out that livestock farming has already done a great deal and has reduced around 65% of emissions. We have to be careful that livestock... It is always said that everyone must contribute. I see that agriculture has already contributed to a dough bed, where some have only contributed a pebble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u85	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is proposing to take feed measures. The CDA wants farmers in the Netherlands to earn a good income. That is why my group believes that if the use of the cabinet leads to a higher cost for the farmer, this should be reimbursed if this is not to be recovered in the market. I would like a commitment from the cabinet on this. I ask if the Minister is prepared to do so. We do not want farmers to be obliged to use stuff that could hinder their marketing. Can the Minister promise that that won't happen? Mr. Chairman. Under the chairmanship of Aalt Dijkhuizen, an agricultural collective is preparing an integral plan to get out of the nitrogen problem. Now it is often the case that good ideas have to be delivered in three ways, in five departments and preferably between nine and five hours. My appeal to the Minister is: take initiatives from society seriously. Listen to them and consult with them. And respond quickly. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr President, concluding. Many citizens and farmers are in uncertainty. Entrepreneurs fear the survival of their business. Let's keep that in mind here. An important step has been taken, but the cabinet still has a lot of work to do in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u87	The CDA and Mr Geurts have always set a fairly consistent line when it comes to the compulsory reduction of livestock. That is what Mr Geurts said: I am not going to see; we do not want that. But now I heard the Prime Minister last night, if I understand correctly, say at Nieuwsuur: we might see something in compulsory relocation near Natura 2000 sites. I was wondering, because I saw that as something new or that the CDA thinks is an acceptable measure, because that goes quite far, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u88	Indeed, I have always said that I do not want a forced shrinkage of livestock. The CDA Congress confirmed this in two resolutions, so that is also a CDA position and not just a position of Mr Geurts. I do not think that what you are saying is at the moment at all. A number of measures are now being implemented, and I am not going to ask you to do so. You know the CDA's point of view. "Forced" doesn't really appear in our dictionary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u89	This is not a hypothetical case; this is what the Prime Minister said last night. He represents the cabinet. If it's right, he's now working on longer-term measures. If the Prime Minister says that on national television, I assume he does so consciously, surely you cannot say: yes, we are not going to anticipate things and we are not going to respond to what the leader of the country says? Isn't that a very strange figure of Mr. Geurts? Don't you want to give your constituents some clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u90	I think that this package makes it very clear that if farmers want to go through, that is possible, and that there is also a warm investment if you want to take emission measures. Those possibilities are there. Let us go down that road before we have this discussion and add to the confusion in the country. Let's be clear about the CDA's commitment. The letter also contains what we support, namely warm investment. Let's just give agriculture the future they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u91	I agree with Mr Geurts when he says that agriculture is not so much covered in this package. At the same time, this is a huge source of concern for the sector. They think, "What else is over our heads?" There's still a lot of uncertainty. But I would also like to ask Mr Geurts the question I also asked the representative of D66. Does he agree with me that the answer to questions shows that there is double standards in measuring the nitrogen deposition from the agricultural sector against the deposition from mobility, from road traffic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u92	I would first like to respond to Mr Bishop's introduction. These measures are quite significant for livestock farming if you have to steer your feed measures. So let's not say that's of no significance. At least I never meant to say that. In addition, livestock farming has already done a lot. I just turned that in. Emissions have been reduced by 65% over the last period. What sector can repeat that? So let us also be proud of and stand side by side with this sector. Then what Mr Bishop says about measurement methods. Together with the SGP, we have been working on this for a number of years, and I note that we are still making too little progress. The last round table also discussed these Danish investigations. I myself asked the question about the measurement of ammonia in Denmark and the Netherlands. Then it turns out that in Denmark ammonia falls down hundreds of meters from a stable, while in the models we have it here at a kilometer or more. I hope that there will be clarity as to why there is a difference between Denmark and the Netherlands on this point; you have also supported a motion from my hand on this. That won't be resolved by tomorrow. We do have people at home tomorrow, today and yesterday who want to get to work. CDA stands for those thousands of people who are in danger of losing their jobs. Some are already at home and some companies have already gone bankrupt, I understand that I am now looking for a solution. That's what the Cabinet is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mr Bishop, your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u94	I like to spend it on my friends at the CDA. There are measures for agriculture, certainly that floor line, that is clear. I pointed out the salading and the skimming. That is still above the market and that gives a huge feeling of uncertainty. My real question is about double standards. I think it is extremely good how Mr Geurts is dealing with that. In the view of Mr Geurts, are we now talking about double standards, a measure for the agricultural sector in our model and another measure for road traffic? How does Mr Geurts see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u95	That's no secret at all. In the model we see that for the agricultural sector very accurate measurements are made and for a number of other road vehicles you yourself indicated the road traffic to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ My commitment is to make that right, because I think we need that for our society. Only that wasn't taken care of yesterday and not tomorrow either. It's gonna take longer. We are now faced with the task we are facing. The stakes remain the same, I say to the SGP Group; we will not disagree on that. It's just not clear when that's gonna happen. I think we've been working on it together since 2014 and we're living in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u96	In my contribution, I have expressed concerns about the viability and economic vitality of rural areas. On the left or right the livestock will shrink; that is also government policy. This has consequences for farmers. Good social services must be provided for this. But there are more people working in rural areas: workers, transporters, people in slaughterhouses. The CDA believes that provision should be made to deal with the adverse social consequences for farmers. Does Mr Geurts share my view that provision should also be made for other economic operators in rural areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u97	About the latter, my heart says yes. Then there'll be a comma. When I hear it like that, I say "sympathetic," but I don't know exactly what the PvdA Group will come up with. I will also explain where my hesitation lies: when the PvdA Group starts talking about compensating farmers and so on, I have the situation of mink farming in mind very strongly. This has been done in an antisocial way and the PvdA Group has contributed to this. There's my hesitation. The warm restructuring of pig farming, which is set out in the government agreement, has been designed in a much more social way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u98	We have allowed the situation in livestock farming to develop and survive together. As a society, we must stand firm in the hope that it will be resolved in a social way. Does Mr Geurts not share my view that there should actually be a broader agenda for a vital rural area, which is aimed at strengthening the quality of life and removing adverse social consequences for the transporters, the people working in slaughterhouses and the workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u99	Once again, if that is the case, I have sympathy for it. We should talk about that at another time. I believe that the President will not facilitate dialogue on this issue here in this way. I'm absolutely prepared to talk about that. Yesterday I spoke to someone from Groningen about a school class with sixteen children, two of whom come from an agricultural company and fourteen have a different background. That's where you see all the difference. This also means that the management of rural areas will be under pressure in these shrinking areas. We certainly see that as a CDA group. We have an assignment to work on that. At the moment, I am looking very closely at whether people in the construction sector and the dredging sector are at home, have been fired or have received a dismissal commitment. That is what we now have to ensure: that employment gets back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mr President, thank you. The biggest crisis since Mark Rutte is Prime Minister; that's what he called it. And enough group chairmen said here, in the House of Representatives: this is Chiefsache; the Prime Minister has to pick this up. Over the past three weeks, the Prime Minister has not been able to beat out of the media with the way he was on top of solving this problem. Today we are debating and the same group chairmen who made such a big point are not here. This is Chefsache. This is a huge crisis, not only for the cabinet, but also for all the political groups here in the Chamber. I'm sure I'll tell the coalition parties. Mr. Chairman. I don't know if this is the biggest crisis this Prime Minister has ever experienced. MH17 might have been much bigger; at least it had a lot more emotional impact. That's where we saw a fantastic crisis manager. That's what I'm saying here. But the nitrogen crisis we are facing today is a crisis that has not happened to us, but that Mark Rutte, this Prime Minister, has created himself in recent years. We have knowingly continued to emit too much nitrogen. This crisis was caused by this cabinet and the previous cabinets themselves. The way she's being dealt with right now, I really want to describe her as a failure. Because that's the package that's been presented, so that 10-page letter. If it had come three weeks after the judge's ruling, I could have said: handsomely done, very difficult for the VVD to bring the speed down, but nicely done! Here are now emergency measures, which ensure that construction can continue in the Netherlands and that nature can recover. But if you come up with this after six months and are proud of how everyone has stepped over their own shadow, you should be ashamed as a coalition! Is this what you come up with after six months to restore nature? This is totally inadequate. A hundred miles an hour? Only during the day, when we know that the yield is 20% higher if we do so at night, and when we know that by doing so, we could build or at least build more in the Randstad. And that nature would recover more. We're going to drive 100 km/h, making room for building again. But what are we gonna do? Building a road through Amelisweerd. Is that what the Netherlands needs: to build a road so that more nitrogen can be emitted? All the space that is available must be used as a priority for the restoration of nature and the construction of homes, especially in Utrecht, not for broadening a road. Mr. Chairman. I just saw the interruption debate with D66's colleague on how we deal with nature in the Netherlands. Not nature is the problem, but nitrogen emissions. I see how pleased they are at the VVD with the senses that the protected status of nature reserves needs to be reconsidered, so we can suddenly see if we can take down nature reserves. I'm told: yes, but, Jesse, we're not going to asphalt those natural areas at once, are we? No, of course not! Even the VVD wouldn't dare. But if you remove that status, the quality of those natural areas, which are already under such pressure, goes down even further. In a few years, there will be developers who say "that's interesting: the quality here is so bad now, maybe we can develop this a little further." Our nature must be protected at all costs. We must not do less to protect nature, but more. This paragraph in the letter is unacceptable as far as I am concerned. I already know what the cabinet's answer is, but I'm going to ask the next question and say something about it. Why is there no mention of the expansion of air traffic? I believe that I am not one of the most favorite politicians of most farmers in the Netherlands, but despite all the threats and all the cursing, I would like to say to them: we are listening. I hear very well that you say it touches you in your soul when talking about reducing livestock, which is how you operate, and at the same time is still being considered to build a new airport. Stop it, cabinet. Tell them Lelystad won't be opened. Tell me Schiphol can't expand. But that's not gonna happen. There's something else that won't happen. We're six months away. I'm done, I'd almost like to say. The coalition parties also say: wait until December, wait until December. We've been at it for six months; we've been waiting so long! The most important measure to ensure that we can build and that nature in the Netherlands recovers is to reduce livestock. A compliment to colleague De Groot. It was brave how he stepped forward and said that we need to reduce the livestock. He said we should cut him half. Where's the plan? You can't just throw something over the fence. You can't throw a piece of red meat at the farmers and say that we're gonna halve the livestock, and then not make it concrete. That is why my group has tabled a legislative proposal. We are not saying that livestock should be halved, but that we should halve the nitrogen released by the livestock in 2035. Think of it as some kind of climate law, but for dealing with nitrogen. In doing so, we are legally laying down what needs to be done in the years to come. Half the emissions. Because what we don't need are balloons and blanks. What we need is legislation, action and difficult decisions. Mr. Chairman. I started by saying it was a failure of the cabinet. It indicates that it will take another month to come up with the follow-up measures. If you spend six months trying to reduce speed on highways, I wonder what you can do in a month at a point as big as intensive livestock farming. And I wonder how sustainable the plans are now. Finally, I would like to ask the following question. Is the Cabinet prepared to ask the Council of State about the present package of information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u102	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u103	Mr. Chairman. Since the judge's ruling on the nitrogen problem, the authorisation of construction projects has stopped. For the VVD it is important that we do everything in the short term to prevent construction workers from losing their jobs. The housing, road, and water construction must get back on track. Only that makes a rotten measure like lowering the speed limit by day acceptable for the VVD. The speed of the day goes down, but the cabinet still needs top speed. Construction doesn't have a day to lose to get the permit back on track. Every day counts, including for the submission of the Emergency Act and the Emergency Act. In what short term can we expect them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u104	In recent days we have of course been able to learn about the way in which the VVD deals with the challenge of the nitrogen problem in the Netherlands. In the studies I see that 6% of the nitrogen deposition is caused by transport and 46% by livestock farming. Surely you could win a lot more if you bet on livestock instead of lowering the speed limit on the highways? Is the choice of the VVD a substantive choice or is it a party political choice, because for example the CDA and the Christian Union absolutely did not want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u105	It's en-and. The urgency means that you now need measures that will have an effect in the short term, so that the construction can continue. At the same time, that is where I will come up with some measures for agriculture too, so as to reduce nitrogen emissions. It's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u106	This presupposes that Mr Harbers believes that measures that can be taken for livestock farming will not solve anything in the short term. Of course, that's bullshit. Mr Harbers knows that, too. I ask him again why the VVD does not opt for measures aimed at reducing livestock, rather than lowering the speed limit on the motorway. The speed limit in the past was a spearhead and a promise of the VVD. Why are you abandoning the drivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u107	It's en-and. But I also said in the previous debate that we do not have a cow problem, but a nitrogen problem. Anything we can do in agriculture to help reduce nitrogen emissions, we must also do so. But these measures often take a little more time. A measure that can be taken in the shorter term, for example feed, is also included in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mrs. Ouwehand, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u109	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm afraid I'm running out of time. I hear the VVD saying she wants to do everything she can to get the construction back on track. I have two questions about that. Then why doesn't the VVD do that? Or didn't the VVD read the analysis? It says that this package is even worse and therefore legally even more unsustainable than the rejected Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. How does the VVD look at the imminent loss of the derogation due to the far too large manure production and the failure of this cabinet's nitrogen policy? You know, the derogation is the exception for the Netherlands to drive out more manure than farmers in other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u110	Through these measures, where the nitrogen space can be in the nitrogen register, you are going to improve the legal basis of construction projects. It's one-on-one clear, at every permit, where the nitrogen chamber came from. That lasts better in court than the PAS. Sorry, what was the second question, in one word?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u111	Well, that's with Mrs. Ouwehand...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u112	The imminent loss of the derogation; the exception that the Netherlands has in the manure rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u113	Oh, yeah, the derogation. The derogation in the manure policy is about emissions. The cabinet letter says that we are going to focus on low-emission agriculture and support farmers in it. You can then come up with a very nice package that will reduce the problems ever further in the future. Mr. Chairman. The measures that are now in place to get the construction back on track are quick to take. However, the Netherlands will continue to stall in the long term if we continue to deal with Natura 2000 sites in the current rigid way. The clean-up of conservation targets is urgently needed and the deletion or re-division of these areas is also necessary. The same applies to the announcement that the Nature Protection Act is being amended, so that the definition of "significant disturbance" does not go beyond the Habitats Directive. This part of the measures cannot and must not be delayed. How's the Minister gonna handle this with the greatest urgency? It is good to stop the designation of new areas or targets during this clean-up operation. Will the Minister shortly be able to provide the Chamber with a list of current instructions and amending decisions, so that it is absolutely clear what has been stopped for the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u114	When I hear Mr Harbers like that, I understand the enthusiasm I saw with Mr Dijkhoff yesterday. Do I understand correctly that the Nature Protection Act is being amended? I didn't read that in the letter, or I read about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u115	This is stated in the letter, mid-page 2: for activities that cannot have a significant impact on Natura 2000 sites, there is no need to apply for a Natura 2000 permit. That has to be done now, and it goes beyond the Habitats Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u116	This means that the Nature Protection Act will also be amended in order to make this legally possible. So this is not about the existing possibilities, I say to D66. It's about adjusting the Nature Protection Act. This is a direct attack on nature. I say to Mr Harbers that the problem is not nature, but nitrogen emissions. When is Mr Harbers going to realize that we should not shut down nature, but rather strengthen it? And what nature reserves does Mr Harbers intend to shut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u117	I'm standing here because there's a nitrogen problem. The VVD recognizes that problem. I am standing here defending a letter that also states that nitrogen space that becomes available for 30% goes to nature. But we have to be real with each other. We know that there are areas in the Netherlands that are already taking away all the activities in the area, make sure that no one lives or drives anymore and that all the companies are closing down. Then you have to be realistic with each other. You have to say, "What can't be saved, you shouldn't want to protect." You should then see if you can make nature more robust in another place, somewhere where you have a good Natura 2000 site. Maybe you should rethink some of that. I have news for Mr Klaver: there are just 17 million people living in this country. These 17 million people want very normal things. They want to live, they want to work, they want a job, they want there to be a company somewhere, and they want to be able to come to work or join their families. Then you have to be realistic in nature policy. When even that kind of thing can't do anymore, you have to be critical of the nature goals we want to pursue with each other. It's not against nature. That means that on the one hand you say: what cannot be maintained, you cannot maintain. You'd better take that law of nature seriously. On the other hand, you say: make sure you make the nature you do have more robust and sturdy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u118	I have news for Mr Harbers: we live here with 17 million people in a very small country that is increasingly being built up with all kinds of industrial sites. Those 17 million people all want to be able to relax, even the biggest critics about nature love to be able to walk there on Sundays and to go there with the children to play. The nature we need to protect that Mr Harbers is talking about, we had to protect it anyway. We must protect these Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands anyway. But to say that we're going to take some parts of nature away, I don't think it's one step too far, but I find that, to be honest, incomprehensible. The CDA always said we should think about the Wierdense Field. Shouldn't we shut that down or else we're gonna split it up? Can Mr Harbers mention the natural areas that might have to disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u119	One thing: I also enjoy this nature. Every VVD person enjoys nature. I like to go for a walk in nature on weekends. But if you look at the current Natura 2000 sites, it is impossible to keep all those areas in this state. And fortunately there is also a lot of other beautiful Netherlands around. The Wierdene Veld has been mentioned, but there are also areas you never get out of, because it is a gordian knot, like the Grevelingen. The quality of the water in the Grevelingen needs to be improved. That sounds like a fantastic goal. If you do that, you run the risk of a few plants disappearing on the land around it. So you'll never get out of there, because those plants are in the way of development. So you have to choose what you do want to maintain and what you don't. I think you might come a long way if you put your foot down on water quality now and in return say we'll never make it on land again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u120	Last question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u121	Yes, Chairman, finally. I hardly believe it. I also believe that almost no D66 remains in place and that they have agreed that nature reserves can actually disappear. I would like to thank Mr Harbers very much for pointing out that the Wierden Field and the Grevelingen are under threat, but I would like to ask him what other areas he still sees in front of him, which he says are of those areas for which we really need to see whether this protected status should not be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u122	That's starting with the whole cleanup operation. There are targets, also added later in management plans, which do not follow directly from the European Commission's habitat types. They are very nice tasks and challenges for the cabinet to present to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u123	This is, in a sense, a hypothetical discussion, because Brussels will of course say no; almost everyone in this Chamber knows that. I would therefore like to ask the question a little more broadly. What has disturbed me most in the last long months, when we were waiting for cabinet policy, apart from the length, is the constant profile of coalition parties on these subjects and the presence of test balloons in the media. One after the other. One says the herd has to halve. The other says: nothing has to happen to the livestock. And now we see a letter in which coalition parties read selective passages. One says: we're going to chop in the Natura 2000 areas. The wish lists are already coming up and the other says: only if a plant disappears naturally can we perhaps consider it. My question to Mr Harbers is: when does the coalition stop profiling on this subject? When are you going to sit down and build a solution? 'Cause this really doesn't do anybody any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u124	I'm tasting a reproach on Mr Futselaar. That is why I quote literally from the letter from the cabinet; a cabinet supported by four coalition parties. This is the task, this letter, and these are the measures that need to be worked out in the shortest time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u126	In agriculture, "low emission" is the new guiding principle and not "circular farming." Circulation farming can be a very good expression of low emissions, but it is not necessarily the starting point. Anything that leads to less nitrogen will help solve this problem. There is no time to waste for that either. So not only focus on good financial regulation for farmers who want to quit, but also on good regulation for those who want to move or for those who want to continue and expand. It is also a good thing that the development area is being secured. When does the Cabinet have this package of arrangements? How quickly are innovative techniques that are sometimes banned in laws and regulations? When can the sector get a list of new innovative techniques available to reduce nitrogen emissions? Mr. Chairman. Then the whole question of measuring and knowing and calculating. In short, the cabinet has taken a step towards following the motions made by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts on the extension of the measuring network. This extension of the measuring network is a start. But there must be more than the measuring points that have already been added this year. We also really need to investigate what the foreign models are doing in the Dutch situation. The committee to be set up must also be set up there. I'd like a response. The cabinet must also make every effort to speed up those perhaps thousands of projects that can continue, even now, as quickly as possible. The maximum level of support should be given to municipalities and provinces. I understand there's a whole team of civil servants available for that. How are these currently used as far as possible in municipalities? And how are all the options for ecological support now being exploited quickly, in particular for sustainability projects that are still running smoothly on nitrogen, and that will reduce emissions in the future? You need to be able to back that up, and you need to be able to do that in the shortest possible time. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the Minister is now taking the right steps to solve the problem of poverty. This is good, because hurry is required. Here literally counts every day. Every day that it can be done faster than 1 December: I ask the Minister to do so. Can it indicate whether a new temporary standard might be available next week or in the next few days? In addition, I would like to hear from the Minister whether the state trooper depots have sufficient capacity to store the amounts of dredging that are now being released. And do I fully understand that as of 1 December, the adapted standard will apply to ground and dredging applications under groundwater and surface water? Finally. Have we understood correctly that the measurements from the national inventory may also be used by municipalities or by other parties for their soil quality maps, in order to save costs, avoid duplication of work and thus keep the speed in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u127	I also find it difficult for the coalition parties to give such a different explanation of the letter. Society calls for a confidence-building approach, but also for an effective approach. I have a question for Mr Harbers. RIVM argues that the proposed package of measures is not effective enough for the western part of the country. The effects of the feed package will not be felt until the end of 2020. Is it acceptable to Mr Harbers that the housing inventory in the Randstad, in the western part of the country, remains still for so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u128	Mr Moorlag is now turning it into the whole western part of the country. As far as I know, the problem is about a smaller area, close to The Hague. That's what the cabinet letter says. And in large parts of the Randstad there can be more. And yes, in the long run, you're not gonna make it all the way out of the Randstad. For the coming months, for the coming year, you can move forward with this. But it takes a lot more than that. That is why it is necessary to adopt further measures immediately in December, in order to further underpin a threshold and to enable housing in those parts of the Randstad, where it is going to become more difficult in the near future, sometime next year. It's en-and-and-so: now that the short-term, very short-term, medium-term plans and doing much more for the long-term to prevent you ever getting stuck like this again. Hence the critical view of the Natura 2000 sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u129	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u130	It's been lost for six months. The farmers are standing on their backs. VNO-NCW, too. As a VVD, you have to do your best to get VNO-NCW into the curtains. Building the Netherlands is on the back legs. My question to Mr Harbers is: isn't this just a much too weak story to get the permit back on track?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u131	No, there is a story here with measures that provide nitrogen space to make the construction, road and water construction and the necessary water defence, i.e. coastal and dike reinforcement, as soon as possible. As far as we're concerned, it's super-urgent. It has to be in days and weeks. This shouldn't take months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u132	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. Oh, Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u133	I am very pleased that Mr Harbers says that VVDs also like nature reserve. If they like to go there on Saturday or Sunday, they can do it all by bike from next weekend, to enjoy the beautiful nature. But I would like to ask Mr Harbers the following question. RTL News has made some sort of report on how things have been in the coalition over the past few days. Who do you think the next quote is from? "If I agree to this, I can cancel my party." I'll give you a little help on your way. It was someone who said that at last Monday's coalition meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u134	I read the article myself, but I wasn't at that meeting, so I have to assume it was the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u135	And what did you think of the Prime Minister's suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u136	Well, I'm gonna stop that. Fortunately, there are also a lot of VVDs who, if they are chosen between the maximum speed, jobs in construction and the risk that construction workers will be out of work at home at Christmas, know what to choose. Then they choose for the jobs, for the construction and for everyone who is waiting for his new home or for a new road, which prevents him from standing in traffic in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u137	You know, about the reduction of 130 km/h, Mr Harbers said in a debate not so long ago, when another colleague asked, that lowering the 130 for the VVD was not the solution. Those were your literal words. You put up smiling signs all over the Netherlands, from the Minister to the Prime Minister. Behind them were all VVDs with all signs with 130. You're a complete monkey, for the hundredth time. There are now signs with 100 on them and with the text "thanks to the VVD" underneath. Don't come up with the story that this is because of the jobs, because you caused the problem yourself. You caused the problem yourself! You could have made sure that the standards were raised with one stroke of pens. You could have done that six months ago. Your party could have done that in the past year or six months. Why didn't you? What do you say to all those VVDs who have trusted you that they should be able to drive 130 and who are now happy to be able to drive 100 km/h on four, five-lane roads. That's too ridiculous for words, isn't it? It doesn't help for nature. It doesn't help the environment. The nitrogen's already dropping. There's no need. And you're just beeping them. You are simply carrying out the agenda of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u138	No one has to be happy about it. I don't think I'm going to be happy to get behind the wheel myself, as Mr Wilders says, with 100 km/h. But at the same time, for the umpteenth time, I hear from Mr Wilders that we should simply raise that standard. It's like that's a sure thing for anyone who wants to build. At the moment there are a lot of people who have a permit for their business and who still have the threat that an enforcement request will come to court and that the judge will say: yes, that permit cannot actually be, because there is not enough done for nature. You can't just raise that standard and ignore the fact that the judge said you just need to prove what you're doing about nature compensation. I am sorry about that, because I do not see that in Mr Wilders' proposal for an emergency law. Mr. Wilders is going to keep a list. If anyone wants to build, they're allowed to build it, and all they have to do is report it. But what does he think will happen to that notification? It's kept on a list. When the next six months or years are over, you have to do what still needs to be done for nature to make all those things that have gone on possible. Then I would prefer to opt for measures that now clarify how to reduce nitrogen emissions and how to save the natural areas, including the natural areas that we want to keep. Then it's clear from the start. This can become clear in the coming weeks if the emergency law is dealt with here in the Chamber. With that, you're offering all those people who are about to get a permit the real legal certainty that they won't get wet in court anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u139	That's a very technical answer. I think people at home really don't get it anymore. The VVD could have just arranged this. She should have done that by now. If you sign for 130 km/h, if you proudly go into the country and take half your cabinet with you to change a sign of 100 to 130 on a highway, then you have something to explain to the voter if you don't. Then you should not come here with a technical story about a reporting obligation and licensing obligation. You could have just made sure that those rules and standards went up with an emergency law. The cabinet could have done that a year ago. You could've just done that. We're in charge here. Europe is not in charge here. Not the judges are in charge here. We're in charge here. You should have. The fact that you didn't do that is an enormous injustice. I have one more question for representative Harbers of the VVD. How much longer do you think you'll be able to do this? How much longer do you think you're gonna keep this joke going? I will also ask the Prime Minister that question in a moment, so that he can prepare himself. I still know how many files are coming, from farmers, from manure and from aviation. You have heard what Mr D66, Mr De Groot, said. Mr De Groot says: this is only the amuse of the seven-course dinner. The amuse of the seven-course dinner! In other words: watch VVD, and watch CDA with your farmers, you haven't seen anything yet. This is just the beginning of what we have seen and you are already on your knees. You're already crawling behind D66 by throwing that 130 kilometers in the trash. He's just threatening to see a lot more coming! How long can you do this? How long will you be held hostage by the agenda of the left? When will you once again show backbone and stand in front of your constituents?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u140	There's only one corridor and that's less nitrogen. We'll do a few things for that. We are now taking a few measures that are already working very quickly, and hopefully next month there will be a package that will lead to those thresholds. But I would like to come back to Mr Wilders' law. I haven't seen him fight that nature compensation is necessary. That's what his law is all about, just in a less clever way. Let me give him the very brief summary before it gets too technical: the VVD opts for the emergency law and the emergency law of the cabinet and not for the head-in-the-sand law of Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u141	The VVD chooses left. The VVD chooses lies. The VVD chooses the agenda from "from 130 to 100." The VVD chooses to take the peasants immediately. The VVD chooses to show for the hundredth time that it cannot be trusted, after the €1,000 for the Dutchman and all other promises. You choose left, and why? Because you want to stay in power. If two years ago, in 2017, you had not put the PVV out of play, if you hadn't made sure that you had left and had to rule together with terrible parties like D66, if you had gone for the winner of the elections, then we would have been too late then you wouldn't have had to do this. You got yourself into trouble by not going over right but over left. And now you're being held hostage. You're being held hostage and you're not worth the snipe in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u142	The VVD chooses the jobs of the builders. I hope that Mr Wilders will support us in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u143	Thank you. I would like to suspend two minutes before I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u144	I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Our country is dealing with the nitrogen crisis and the government is now taking the necessary steps to facilitate the situation in the short term. This is urgently needed to provide prospects for builders and farmers who now feel the most concrete of the crisis. I have also heard their stories on two conversational evenings in Bedum and Apeldoorn that the Christian Union has organized; and more will follow. I am also thinking of nature, because it also feels the crisis. Our way of life exhausts creation, our nature. Not everything can happen. If we want to preserve nature, if we want to live the good life sustainably, then we will have to make other choices and search together for a new balance. And those are the first steps. The most striking and effective measure in the short term is the reduction of the maximum speed. When does it enter into force? The Christian Union Group understands that this measure requires something from everyone, but it is also recalled that this can continue to build a lot of homes. We all do our part because we know how important a roof is over your head. So the most important thing now is that the construction gets going. That's a priority. In the Netherlands, we fight against the water every day. Dykes need to be raised. Sand is sprayed on the coast. The Christian Union therefore supports the emergency law that the cabinet is preparing. The legal sustainability of such an emergency law is crucial. Is the Cabinet confident that the Council of State does not consider this law to be contrary to Natura 2000 legislation? Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture for their discussions with the farmers. I think that dialogue is very much needed. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the future of our agriculture lies in circular agriculture. Innovations can support that. Circle farming has not been carried out overnight and we understand that in the short term the transport track offers the space that we now need so much. It is good that the cabinet works with target regulations that appeal to farmers on their professionalism and expertise. Can the Minister confirm that this does not ultimately increase costs but that less protein in the ration can be even more advantageous? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union does not want less nature, but we want a strong and robust nature. That is why it is good that every step that is taken will benefit nature through skimming. 250 million is also invested in nature restoration, for the first time after several cabinets. This is all a gain for nature, and my group welcomes it. At the same time, the cabinet talks in the letter about adaptations to the protected status of nature reserves. This is the subject of a discussion with the European Commission. Can the Minister outline what process she envisages? Mr. Chairman. Not only the construction but also the water boards suffer from the strict standards for pfas. The Minister for Housing and the Environment has taken a number of measures, but my group lacks the urgency here. What do the measures mean in concrete terms for the builders and the land companies? I spoke to a contractor whose order book was down 90%. He's just really facing bankruptcy, and he's gonna have to fire people. Every day counts. The RIVM comes with the national background value before 1 December. Municipalities have to make soil quality maps, but what can the Minister do to support municipalities that already have enough on their plates? Shouldn't there be a ban on pfas, in the end, as a builder asked me, because otherwise mopping with the crane is open. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing short-term measures today, but there will also have to be longer-term solutions. For the Christian Union, all sectors contribute to this. Farmers who want to move forward in our country want to give perspective. They must be able to count on support to take a step towards circular agriculture. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Man was given the responsibility of God to take care of His creation. This means balancing the ambitions, dreams and wishes of people and the space and protection nature needs so that we can live on this earth in a good way and live in this country. It is up to us to choose the good life with each other and with nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that we have not really made much progress in comparison with the previous debate that we have had, but I think that also applies to the contribution of the Chamber. In this respect, we are waiting for progress rather than a repetition of moves. If I look at the letter, we are in urgent need. I shall not say happy expectation of the real proposals of the cabinet. We also asked for a Council of State-proof policies last time. Not only do we have a nitrogen crisis, but we also have a real housing crisis. If it is a success, especially in the Randstad, we do not think 50PLUS is the biggest problem that we can no longer drive 130 km/h. To put it simply, it's a no-brainer: if you use it to pull the housing, if you increase road safety, if you even increase the flow, if you make people get a house instead of a lot of discussion about nitrogen. In that respect, the ratio here should prevail over the feeling, because I understand that a lot of people like to drive fast. That goes for me too, but I like to talk about it if that means that more houses can be built here. At the same time, however, I think it is necessary, and that is what I miss in the letter, namely that there is also investment in nature in order to extract the nitrogen from where it can be done. That certainly applies to the areas near the Randstad. Get the nitrogen out there and put more money in there. And that's getting very little attention right now. I also think that the problem of the 'pfas' in this debate is getting little attention, because that affects not only nature but also our own health. With ammonia you can say that it also affects our health, but the pfas even more affects our health. We are in favour of following the recommendations of the Centre of Expertise and, at the same time, making it clear that transport can get back on track very quickly. This is under the motto that you do not pollute areas, that you maintain the existing level in the existing areas, that this can be done with transport and that all kinds of activities can be undertaken. I am thinking of the problems that the water boards, the drinking water companies have, that it can be taken out of there and that you can do it in another place. Because this will help the Netherlands more than a debate here on whether or not there is a nitrogen crisis, or whether there are supernatural forces that cause us to be under an ammonia blanket. None of that helps to find a solution. Mr. Chairman. In the previous contribution, I also mentioned the fact that there is still a great deal of unused licence space. We really need to do something with that. We can say, under the motto 'never waste a good crisis', that we let it get much worse first, and then take even more rigorous measures, but that does not seem to me to be the right way forward. So make sure that farmers are compensated for the loss of unused space and that they can continue. We are making a distinction, however, when we talk about the farmers. There are very large companies, also look at the research of Follow the Money......................................................................................................................................................................................... We make a clear distinction between large and small companies. We believe that small businesses, which really feed our country, should be able to be spared where they can, and that possible relocation should also be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u148	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u149	Mr. Chairman. It is good that a number of measures have been put in place to temporarily remedy the crisis in farmers and construction created by ourselves. But it's emergency solutions and it's not structural. Moreover, they are unnecessarily generic, because an electric car or a hydrogen car emits absolutely nothing and it should be rewarded. I'd like to hear if there's an exception. The nitrogen debacle threatens farmers and builders in their very existence and thus the entire Dutch economy. That should never have happened. Because, of course, where does it really go wrong? That is when we have designated these 166 sites as Natura 2000. At that time, administrators, civil servants and politicians should have been watching. At that time they should have realized what the consequences were. How the hell is it they didn't do that back then? In addition, it appears that we make policies in the Netherlands on the basis of estimates, non-measured depositions and calculation models with a margin of error of 100%. Moreover, we impose standards that are much stricter than in other countries: 0,05 mol per hectare per year compared to 7 mol per hectare per year in Germany. Can the Minister explain why we're doing this differently? In 2015 the PAS was introduced as a cloth for bleeding and in May 2019 it was referred to the trash can by the Council of State. It seems that no one was prepared for this and that is why we are only now, six months later, discussing the possible solutions to get out of the legal, administrative and economic problems. Because technically, there's no acute problem with nitrogen oxide. In fact, nitrogen oxide emissions have been falling in the Netherlands for years. I have the following questions for the Minister. Why didn't you start investigating earlier whether the number of Natura 2000 sites could be reduced or at least rationalised? And why didn't you immediately start working on scenarios with solutions when the procedure was initiated at the Council of State? So why just now? Mr. Chairman. The pfas problem is still kafkaesker. On 1 October 2019, the government decided that the presence of the smallest measurable amount of pfas, namely 0.1 micrograms per kilogram of earth, would bring the construction to a complete standstill. Why has no one examined the impact of this new standard before we introduced that measure? And how can we now, under steam and boiling water, have to debate emergency solutions? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr. Chairman. "This is the biggest crisis I've ever experienced." Not a million people living in poverty, not the number of homeless people in the Netherlands that has doubled since 2009, since the Prime Minister's presidency; not that so many Dutch people can no longer afford the care. None of that is a crisis. No, nitrogen, that's a real crisis. That is indeed a crisis, as far as I am concerned, not the biggest, but it is a crisis, because it is a mess caused by, among other things, its own party. For more than 50 years the problem has been warned, but the CDA, the VVD, D66 and the PvdA have done nothing, but nothing at all, in recent years to solve this problem. And as a blow to the head, those parties presented the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen to buy off their debt. An approach in which was actually lived on the puff. It continued to grow, because environmental measures were promised in the future, but of course these measures never came off the ground. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore quite right that on 29 May this year the Council of State was stinging through this mischief. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen had to leave the table and thus the established political parties with their road-view policy have thrown the Netherlands into misery. 70,000 jobs are on the way. The house production will fall from 75,000 to 44,000. There is a turnover loss in the construction of 14 billion euros. These ruins are caused by the established political order. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Prime Minister, as an embodiment of that established political order that caused this cesspool, came up with a solution. A solution that is a smack in the face of the Dutch motorist. The maximum speed on the highways goes from 130 km/h to 100 km/h. Continue driving is a thing of the past in the Netherlands. This is another promise broken by Rutte. The driver must pay for the problems caused by his party by this VVD Prime Minister. Driving The Netherlands has to clean up the mess of the VVD. What is this draconian speed reduction going to do with entrepreneurs who have to drive for their jobs? They can also simply do less work per day due to the reduction in speed. The VVD thus grabs both the driver and the entrepreneur. So it's just shameless motorists bullying by the VVD, while the petrol is already very expensive, the car insurance costs with money and in almost all the municipalities where the VVD is also in the college parking fees rise out of the pan. After the farmers, the builders and the teachers, the Malieveld should actually be occupied by motorists. They're gonna be abandoned like hell. Mr. Chairman. This while the transport sector is responsible for 6% of nitrogen emissions. Reducing the maximum speed to 100 km/h reduces nitrogen emissions by only 0.07%. It's a drop on a glowing plate that takes people in the country disproportionately hard. And this reduction in the maximum speed is also not enough to facilitate housing in the most densely populated area of the Netherlands, namely the Randstad. There is still not enough space to build enough homes in Noord-Holland, Zuid-Holland and Utrecht, according to the calculations of the RIVM today. DENK is therefore fatal against that reduction in the maximum speed to 100 km/h. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, the question is: what are we supposed to do? We must make greater efforts to reduce livestock, invest more in the sustainability of agriculture and move agricultural activities to less sensitive areas, because nitrogen emitted by animals is more harmful than that produced by cars or industry. Agriculture accounts for 46% of nitrogen emissions and Dutch farmers mainly produce for foreign countries. A large part of milk and meat is exported. DENK therefore calls on the cabinet and the coalition, the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union, to focus more on making choices that support agriculture to contribute. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u152	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u153	Madam President, colleagues. We all agree that nature is important and that we must protect it, where necessary. But fortunately, nature is doing very well in the Netherlands. In few places in the world, nature is as good as in our country. The Dutch nature flourishes. We have the most beautiful forests, the best beaches, the best herring, the best bickering on those beaches. We have the happiest livestock. The air is cleaner than ever before. There is a reduction of particulate matter in the air; we can see that here. There is a huge reduction in sulphur in the air; we can see that here. The air is cleaner than ever before. I can continue with graphs, with tables. We should be really happy, proud that we live in this country, where the environment and nature are in excellent condition. The crisis we are currently in, the nitrogen crisis, is therefore in no way a natural or environmental crisis. There's no environmental problem. There is no air pollution problem. There is no problem with dying trees or other things that have anything to do with nature or the environment. The only crisis we are in is an accounting crisis, a legal crisis caused by a ruling by the Council of State in May of this year. The Council of State has said something about how our licensing system works. The issue, again, is not about exceeding environmental standards or natural pollution or smog or tree mortality or acid rain. It's simply about rules, how we grant permits. Unfortunately, because the cabinet has waited completely passively, they have led to an economic disaster that we are now in. The construction sector is down. Thousands of jobs are at stake. Dozens, hundreds of millions of dollars in economic activity have already missed companies. Farmers are in trouble. The speed limit is now going down all over the Netherlands. Total madness and all that for, I repeat, an accounting problem. The only thing that needs to happen is to align our rules with Germany, to modernise our licensing system. 100 kilometers away, the standard for nitrogen emissions is 140 times less stringent. That is where construction projects can start unhindered. There you can drive quickly on the highways, as we all know. That's where farmers can burp. We can also introduce this in the Netherlands. We have tabled a motion on this before and today we will retable it. Take only lowering the speed limit, as this cabinet does. The irrationality of this measure, the irrationality of this policy, becomes apparent as soon as we look at how much reduction in emissions this produces: 0.023%. That is the total reduction in emissions. You can see that it's purely an accounting game. They've been calculating with a model and have thought "okay, then we come into that norm" instead of just raising that standard. There is no reason not to do so except for this very clear reason that D66 and the secretly tolerated partner of this cabinet, GroenLinks, have thought: never washed a good crisis. When something is going on with nitrogen and nobody understands exactly what it is, and VVD and CDA are unable to act decisively, these parties are going to open up the whole of environmental measures, and they are coming up with all the measures they have been waiting for years to push them through. Half the herd, D66 said. The CDA didn't know what to say. The speed limit is now in place. Less building, less eating meat, restricting all possible ways of our lives, that is what these parties are finally seeing their chance to do. CDA and VVD are getting beeped. The government itself in this cabinet is formed by the left-wing part of the room, which is extremely pleased with this quasi-crisis, with this total inability of the government to act decisively and in fear of new elections, in fear of admitting that they are no longer in agreement, they are going to fall apart. I think we can all congratulate Jesse Klaver today: congratulations, you are not the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister is doing exactly what your party has wanted for years. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u154	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u155	I'm suspending the meeting until 1:30. Then we will vote on the Tax Plan, then we will have the regulation of work and then the directors will have the opportunity to answer the questions asked.
