ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Municipal Act and the Province Act concerning the extension of the powers of the Council and Provincial States to waive the requirement of residence for aldermen and delegates (34807). I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to extend the possibility of granting aldermen and delegates an exemption from the residence requirement. Aldermen are legally obliged to reside in the municipality they run. The same applies to delegates in their province. The city council and provincial states are empowered to make an exception by granting an exemption for one year. After one year, this exemption may be renewed for one year only in special cases. The Minister's intention is to make sure that this exemption is in principle only once more for each administrative period. For professional drivers, therefore, regardless of which municipality or province they live in, the administrative bumping horse of the job carousel can already be climbed. This bill is the stirrup to make it even easier to get into the plush saddle and stay. This proposal is, after all, even more conducive to a circuit of technocratic professional drivers. Aldermen are becoming more and more consultants with a high cosmopolitan D66 network profile instead of involved drivers in the capillaries of the local community. This development is contrary to the law and to the principle of residence confirmed by the Minister himself. In introducing dualism and thus the possibility of appointing aldermen from outside the board, the Pitstra/Te Veldhuis van GroenLinks and VVD (27751, No. 59), it was assumed that at that time the exemption was limited to a maximum of one year, with the argument that a travelling circus of technocratic aldermen should be prevented. In her written reply, the Minister stated that she had a survey carried out among the aldermen, which would show that, at present, around 17% of respondents had previously been active in another municipality as alderman. Can the Minister indicate whether this bill will make it even easier to become active in another municipality and whether this percentage will increase further in the future? When this provision was extended in 2007, the possibility of extending the exemption, it was clearly stated in the case of Article 36a of the Municipal Act in the case of the Kamerbeheer beheering by the then cabinet: "The starting point is and remains that an alderman is a member of the local community and must be in touch with it'. The then Secretary of State for the Interior, Mrs Bijleveld, also said: "I think it is very important to experience the effects of the policy itself." Can the Minister explain how her bill relates to this point of departure? Can she describe in concrete terms how an alderman can still be part of a local community and thus be in touch if he himself is not willing to live in that municipality? Does the Minister consider it desirable that an alderman in a municipality, for example, should increase the ozb significantly, but not suffer from this itself as a non-resident? Does the Minister consider it desirable that an alderman drags climate plans through a municipality and saddles a community with wind turbines of more than 200 metres high, but also lives elsewhere, far away from it, in the country? Does the Minister consider it desirable for an alderman who wants to do good if necessary to establish with conviction an azc full of asylumasos in a municipality or enthusiastically lay a first stone for a megamoskee, but stays safely far away? Is that feeling with a community and experiencing the effects of policy itself? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, the extension of the time limit for the exemption is contrary to the intention of this exemption. What is now being discussed in order to grant an alderman or deputy a waiver from the point of view of attracting administrative quality was never the legislator's intention to grant this exemption. Indeed, in the explanatory memorandum accompanying the 2007 adjustment, the government made it clear that "the transitional period of one year is intended to make it possible in practice to meet the requirement of residence'. In other words: a time limit to actually move to the municipality or province. This could only be extended in special cases. Can the Minister explain how the option of exemption, which is now undetermined, relates to this intention of the legislator? Has this approach of the Minister not made the obligation to state reasons for applying these special cases from the point of view of the structure of the law simply a dead letter at a time when any argument can be put forward? Or are there grounds which the Minister cannot accept in this legal context? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. During the Parliamentary process of the change in 2007, the then cabinet noted the following about delegates from outside its own province. "In view of the broad recruitment profile within a province, the government considers it plausible that the deputy from outside the province will also be among the exceptions." Can the Minister reaffirm this position of the then cabinet that there are sufficient recruitment opportunities for delegates within its own province? In addition, the then cabinet indicated the following with regard to exemption for special cases: "The government does not consider it plausible that any move by the council will be considered a special case." Mr. Chairman. In practice, it is clear that this is a matter for the management elite. I quote the Brabants Dagblad of 10 May. "The man who, as a deputy, continues to live in Delft and later requests exemption from Provincial States: I would love to live in a city like Den Bosch, but my family situation doesn't allow that now. My partner is very, very bound to South Holland for her work. My two growing sons, just in high school, are rooted there." Thus arriving Brabant GroenLinks-deputee Grashoff, previously resigned as MP after an affair, who thus considers the rooting of his family in South Holland more important than his rooting as director in the province he wants to run as a climate deputy. And in their own words, "I just felt like it again: a role in public administration." And who assumes in advance that he will be granted an exemption. That is why I ask the Minister: is this the intention of the legislator? Should such a conscious choice of "the plush but not the wish to move" be regarded as a particular case for which an exemption is justified? Can the Minister indicate whether such an example is intended in the application of the bill? Mr. Chairman. To get back to the aldermen's survey. It also showed that four aldermen from outside who participated in the questionnaire did not claim to have an exemption from the residence requirement. Two aldermen were not consulted on the exemption. Is that getting the impulse in quality with an alderman on the outside? Did the Minister investigate these cases? According to Article 47 (1) of the Municipal Law, aldermen who do not have this exemption must resign immediately. Can the Minister state if this happened? Has there been any action on this? Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the Minister pretends to do justice to local autonomy. The same minister also passes the local autonomy with the application of the intergovernmental programme, regional energy strategies and, above all, the reclassifications imposed. Can the Minister explain why she is suddenly saying that she has so much to do with local autonomy, while at the time of the reclassifications it is being put to the finale? Can the Minister also explain how this bill relates to its plans for strengthening local democracy? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on committee chairmen from outside the Council or the States. In many cases, committee chairmen have a strong steering role, for example as a representative in joint discussions with the presidency, consult with the Registry and so on. Can the Minister justify how this role can be given to a non-popular representative? Are not elected elected representatives and their electorate simply inadequate? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is with some hesitation that I speak to you today. On 16 April, when I handed you the final report of the Temporary Committee on Code of Conduct, I promised you that would be the last time. In order not to place the suspicion that I am going to show heintjedavids behavior, I will explain why I have not been able to keep that earlier promise and yet, on behalf of my group, I am speaking today on this bill. Sometimes there are seemingly insignificant and small proposals which go beyond the pragmatic and obvious solution they seem to offer at the time. Similarly, in the opinion of the VVD Group in this case. Residence is the legally anchored basis of our representative democracy in the house of Thorbecke. Drivers are expected to live and live close to and among those they govern. Until the dualisation in 2002, this was strictly interpreted and maintained. When, at the time of dualisation, the aldermen and delegates were no longer allowed to be municipal or state members at the same time, the dual concept of outside the council or outside the province was also filled in in a physical sense, while maintaining the principle of residence but with the municipal or provincial authority to make an exception to it. In the beginning, that was literally cross-border. Mr. Chairman. In the written preparation, my group has repeatedly argued that in its view this proposed extension puts pressure on the residence principle, because it is certainly not excluded that the derogation will be further extended and adapted on pragmatic grounds. Where is the limit of the exception? We have asked about the implications for the relations within the College, the position of the mayor or the position of the King's Commissioner for whom the residence requirement does apply. And what is a legal basis and bearing point of departure of local and provincial government still worth when the board itself can make an unbiased exception to this? The Minister responded to our concern in the spirit of, in summary: it is all not so bad in practice; it does not occur that often. In her view, this proposal is accompanied by the existing practice, which already deals with enlargement requests more widely than the law requires because the rules seem to be tighter. The exception to the exception is thus regulated by law. It is not important how many people actually make use of it, but it is important that the legislator makes it possible for provinces and municipalities to appoint unlimited and unbiased directors from outside the municipal and provincial boundaries. In the opinion of the VVD it is of two and one. An exception is not an easily passable path, but one with restrictions and requirements: each case is an exception. Or the exception is so accessible that it becomes an obvious choice to deviate. In that case, the rule on which the exception is based becomes a dead letter and should be deleted. Mr. Chairman. Let's be clear. My group sees this extension of the obligation for aldermen and delegates to live and live in the municipality or province where they have been appointed as a next step in the erosion of this principle. This certainly does not make the principle sacred, but we warn against the trap of self-evidentity and irreversibility which can only lead to the disappearance of this principle without a single choice being made. For the record, the VVD is not against change, quite the contrary. The position, profile and functioning of the public administration are constantly changing, but there must be a connection. Mr. Chairman. We would have liked to have been given a more fundamental approach by the Minister to the residence requirement, in conjunction with the changes in public administration. Instead, she said this was merely a "practical adjustment." For that, this bill should perhaps have been put in place. In the time of treatment measured, it could have been easy. Nevertheless, we await with interest the reply of the Minister, after which we will take our final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u6	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u7	Mr. Chairman. I am speaking in this debate on behalf of the groups of the Socialist Party and of the Party for Animals. Today we are discussing the legislative proposal to extend the power of municipal councils and provincial states to grant a waiver of residence to aldermen and delegates. Further, it is a question of abolishing the obligation for aldermen and delegates to live in the province they govern. For ease's sake, I will continue to mention 'aldermen' in my speech, but what I am saying also applies to delegates. At the beginning of this century, when the municipal authorities had a dual system of administration, i.e. the B and W college and the municipal council became completely separate parts of the municipal board, aldermen could be appointed from outside the city council. These were also allowed to live outside the municipality. Jan Marijnissen warned about a circus of wandering aldermen. The House of Representatives adopted the amendment Pitstra/Te Veldhuis to limit the exemption from the residence requirement to a maximum of one year. An explanation of the need to prevent a technocratic alderman's circuit. In 2007, the city council was given the power to extend the waiver of the requirement of residence for aldermen by one year each year, eventually to the entire four-year period. That's longer than a mayor can get an exemption. But it had to be motivated annually, for example because moving was not possible properly or could not be requested reasonably. Now there is the proposal that municipal councils can appoint aldermen from outside and that they can at once exempt the residence requirement for the entire parliamentary term. For example, an alderman who lives 60 kilometers away comes daily to the office to run the municipality, and travels back to his or her home every day. As if it were an official manager. The city council still has to justify the permanent exemption from residence, but no requirements have been imposed on that justification. The only justification that the city council considers that alderman from outside to be the best candidate is sufficient. I ask the Minister if I understood that correctly. If so, how can the Minister maintain that the main rule of the Municipal Law of residence is maintained? Although we don't have any recent figures, we have the impression that the number of aldermen is growing from outside. We also see more and more aldermen becoming aldermen in one period here and the next period there. They're not gonna have to move for that anymore. Mr. Chairman. Aldermen who are no longer on the electoral lists in the council elections, aldermen who no longer live in the municipality they run: the technocrat as a municipal administrator, who has been warned, is in danger of becoming more and more normal. In the long run, in the opinion of our political groups, it will weaken the link between the inhabitants and the administrators of a municipality. And we think that this is bad for democracy. We ask the Minister, if the present bill were to be adopted, to evaluate as soon as possible how the figure of the alderman from outside the municipality develops. Mr. Chairman. The trend towards technocratisation of the municipal administration is further strengthened by the fact that, as a result of an approved motion in the Lower House, the municipal committees should no longer be chaired by council members, but can also be elected for a technical chairman from outside. In 2013, an amendment by Ronald van Raak removed this idea from the Bill Collecting Law institutional provisions, now we get it back on the table with this bill. We do not see any improvement in this part of the law either. Mr. Chairman. We await the Minister's reply before giving our final opinion on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u8	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. The Minister is requesting a short five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u9	We will continue with the examination of the law 34807, extending the power to waive the requirement of residence for aldermen and delegates. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the speakers who have just spoken. Indeed, the bill referred to just now deals with two issues. Some comments and questions have been made on both cases: the power of the Board to make its own judgement in future on the desirable duration of the waiver of residence requirement for aldermen and delegates, and the possibility for the Board to lay down rules for the chairing of council committees. Both subjects are the result of a ruling by the Lower House by motion. In my view, both changes contribute to more room for local customization and do justice to local autonomy. As Mr Köhler just did, I would point out for the record that in both cases the Province Act is also being amended. In my speech I confine myself to municipal law, but it is about both. I'd like to start with that residence requirement. Most of the comments have also been made. This is the basis of the 2014 Litjens motion. The House of Representatives has strongly supported the principle that not the legislator but the council is best able to decide on the duration of the exemption and the conditions under which it can be granted. Since the dualisation of 2002, it is already possible for aldermen to come from outside the council. That's something that's just been mentioned. So they can also come from outside the municipality. It was agreed at that time that aldermen could be exempted from the residence requirement for one year, but practice has shown that this is often too short. In 2007, the current possibility of extending this exemption by one year each was incorporated into the law. This practice cannot always be supported locally. There is real pressure from the bottom, from the VNG, from the municipalities, to do that differently. The background to this bill is really that it is up to municipal councils themselves to decide whether they think an alderman should be attracted from outside the municipality. In addition, there is also local control over the duration of the exemption. I think it is really important to stress that the residence requirement remains the starting point. There's no question of that in this bill. The bill only amends the exemption system and not the requirement as such. But there is, of course, a choice of principle, because the idea is that it should not be the legislator, but the Council should be able to judge it. During the debate in the House of Representatives, it was mainly about the practical side of and the practical considerations of the changes. In this Chamber more fundamental questions were asked about the value of the requirement of residence. This was also requested during the written procedure. I understand those questions. I can understand the underlying thought very well. I really want to emphasise that feeling and connection with the local community are, of course, extremely important for local government. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Van Hattem, who referred to it a few times. You can't be a good local driver if you don't have that feeling and that bond. But I do believe that the city council is really best placed to judge that. The city council is close to it. This can well assess whether the driver concerned has sufficient connection and contact with the local community and whether it is necessary or not to be resident in the municipality. That line is also supported by the VNG and the Aldermen's Association. They fully share the importance of this commitment, but they say that in practice it would be better if the Council were competent to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u11	If I understand correctly, the Minister says that the city council is quite capable of deciding for itself whether to derogate from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u12	What I am saying is that, with this amendment, I would like to give the Council the opportunity to make that assessment at the beginning of the period, rather than having to return to it annually. So I'd like to give the council some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u13	That's the same as I say. I sum up, but the principle is that the council is deemed to be able or competent to depart from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u14	The law then offers the room to deviate. You speak of "deviation from the law," but the law is respected by giving that space to the council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u15	To deviate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u16	To depart from the principle of residence requirement by granting an exemption. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u17	I think the Minister will come back to that principle himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u18	Sure. Perhaps a very brief comment on the chair of the council committees, because the SP and the PVV have also made comments on this. This proposal is also about this. The Boards are intended to prepare the decision-making of the Board. It's a meeting with aldermen or with the mayor. You can do the last one, too. In addition to the council members, other persons can also be appointed to the council committee. Those are people who aren't councilmen. The current municipal law requires that the chairman of such a committee should be a member of the municipal council. The proposal is to leave the choice of chairing these council committees to the Council. For example, council members from particularly small municipalities and small groups are relieved, because for them it is already a considerable investment in time. If they still have to include the Presidency, it is sometimes almost impossible to do so. So smaller municipalities and smaller groups see the exercise of the Presidency as a relatively heavy time tax. They cannot spend that time in their real work as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u19	But that's not included in the law. This is generic for all municipalities, so also for larger municipalities. You can now have a situation in which, for example, former council members or other people who are on the administrative circuit find it particularly interesting to still act as committee chairman. They are thus given a stand-alone position in our system, while democratically elected representatives of the people are passed over for that position. I myself, as a councilman, find that a chairman can have quite a lot of influence. Those may take the floor from democratically elected council members. That is a position in which you get someone who has not been elected and who has only been appointed by a majority at the beginning of a period because of political agreements, but who can then exercise power and influence over democratically elected representatives of the people. Is that a desirable position in our democratic system? How does this relate to the Minister's ambition to strengthen local democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u20	Mr Van Hattem gives a very different picture than what I have of how it works in the city council and in council committees. The city council itself has the power to act and is competent. It's not like a random person who likes to sit in front of a council committee for whatever reason is about that. No, the city council decides whether they want to or not. That's what it starts with. My argument is that it will give time for the real work of the representative of the people. The presidency takes time. You cannot spend that time on your controlling task or on your framework task, on the real council work. It creates, if desired, if municipal councils themselves want, room for that part of the work, which is more procedural in nature, such as guarding the order, to attract someone from outside so that there is more time left for the real council work. The part of the work that is procedural in nature is, of course, done on the basis of the rules that apply to it; the President simply has to apply the rules and does not have much room to go beyond the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u21	The Minister sketches the ideal image. But I myself have been the chairman of the committee and I myself have noticed how many opportunities you have to send as committee chairman on the agenda, for example, by saying that 'we are not going to set up these agenda documents at this sitting; they will not be discussed until later', without a committee itself having any direct influence on them. That is always the proposal that the chairman of the committee submits to such a committee. It'll only be sent afterwards. But in the front, a committee chairman has quite a lot of influence. That is an influence that you can place with an elected representative of the people, but someone who has not been elected is thereby disproportionately influenced by elected representatives of the people. Is that a healthy democratic relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u22	That is not the intention of the proposal at all. The intention of the proposal is to create room for the council to make its own choice. Once again, the Councils do not have to do so, but can choose to do so. If chosen, the motive will often be to free up time for the council members for their real council work. We can exchange each other's experiences here, but my experience is not that committee chairmen have a great deal of space in what is or is not being discussed because they always have to talk to the committee about it. The committee simply decides on that. The chairman is bound by rules and by the agreements made in the committees, where the council is simply represented. So Mr Van Hattem and I are looking at that differently. Once again, the city council is ultimately the boss of that we agree, I believe, and decide on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u23	Just a few more minutes. The point is that it is just how it is applied. A different commission system is applied in each municipality or province. That is different in character and nature everywhere. The adjustment takes place afterwards, namely only when a committee is going to make a point of order and so on. At the front there is a proper direction possible by committee chairmen. It is true that, at the beginning of an administrative period, agreements will be made between the parties on whom these committee chairmen will be appointed, on the basis of party size and so on. Now, outside actors will be identified in this process, coming from outside the Council or from outside the States, which can indeed have a major impact on the work of elected representatives of the people. I have not yet heard one part from the Minister, namely: how does this relate to strengthening local democracy, whatever this minister is trying to do? Because that seems to me to be contrary to that aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u24	On that last point, of course, I have argued that it is precisely by creating room for elected representatives of the people for their work that local autonomy is being strengthened. It is precisely by giving room to the municipal councils to make this choice that it is a strengthening of local autonomy. However, I would like to return to the question of the possibilities available to Presidents of the Council of Ministers for the exercise of a great deal of influence, as Mr Van Hattem points out. A president is there to guide the meeting according to the rules laid down here. That's what we see in this room all the time. It is the same in municipal councils and in council committees, of course. It would also be strange if that were not the case, because that would mean that a council member who is chairman of a committee meeting could also take a form of politics. I don't think that's the idea. It's supposed to be someone who doesn't do it politically. It is therefore intended to do so in accordance with the procedure and rules laid down for that purpose. And once again, in the end, the board is always in charge of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u25	I thought I heard the Minister refer to our Chamber itself and chair it, which must be neutral. In this respect, I would like to ask whether the Minister would also welcome the opportunity for the Chambers to decide for themselves whether they would prefer to have a technical chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u26	I would point out, however, that I illustrated it by the way in which this Chamber, as well as other meetings, are chaired, not with its own agenda, but with the process of the Chamber. But the parallel that Mr Köhler draws does not, of course, exist. The proposal is not to leave the city council presidency to someone on the outside, but to allow council committees to be presided over by someone on the outside. That really is quite different from the parallel that Mr Köhler is drawing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u27	I think that parallelion is going to work, because your argument was that the council members, the representatives of the people, would then have more time for their elected task. The same applies, of course, to the President of the City Council or the Presidents of the Chambers. We must now sacrifice a representative of the people to sit in front of us. He'll have less time to control the government. That's actually a shame. According to your reasoning, we would be much better off hiring a technical chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u28	I would not be in favour of that, Mr Köhler, but if you are, of course you are free to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u29	I'm glad you're not in favour of that, but then I think you're not being very consistent. But I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u30	That's okay, of course. But it's perfectly consistent. And again, it increases local autonomy, especially for small municipalities and small groups. And I say to Mr Köhler once again: Council committees already have people on the outside who do not need to be members of the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u31	One more situation, which is very important. A chairman may ultimately decide to hold a private meeting. Conditions may be presented, for example in the area of public order and security, which are shared with the chairman of the committee, on which that committee chairman may decide that the committee shall meet in private. The members of that committee will not be informed until they are on that committee of the reasons why there is a private meeting. They are then bound to confidentiality. It may even have criminal consequences for council members if they step outside. I therefore ask you once again: is it desirable to entrust such a serious decision to impose a decision on a non-Council member, whereas it may even have criminal consequences for council members if they go outside? For these are very important steps, and once they have been told in that decision why it was imposed by the non-democratically elected President, then they have no way back, because then they are already bound by that decision. That could be a consideration for council members to stop participating in such a committee, which is conducted in private.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u32	Of course, council members can always make that assessment. Council members can also come back to this once they are in a closed meeting and believe that a wrong proposal has been made by the President. Then they can say that they do not agree with the President's opinion. There are therefore many instruments that can be used at that time. Even in this situation, which is not terribly frequent but which can indeed occur, I do not see any difference between a chairman of a committee who is a member of the Council versus a chairman who is not, but who has been appointed by the same council. Mr. Chairman. We have explored this subject a little further. I would like to come back to the issue of exemptions. A number of very specific questions have been asked. Mr Van Hattem asked, and I believe Mr Köhler also asked, about the numbers and whether we can see them. The investigation I had carried out shows that in March of this year 88.5% of the aldermen live in the municipality where they are aldermen. It is not my expectation that this change of law will lead to a different picture. We have, of course, seen a development since the dualisation and since the legislative amendment. There are now more aldermen from outside, who therefore also receive an exemption and who apparently received the exemption year after year. But the change in law as such does not have to lead to a different picture, because, of course, no new competence is created on that point. Then there is Mr Van Hattem's suggestion that you should live in the municipality, so that you also have the consequences of the board or the proposals you make as a director. First of all, I really think it is up to the Council to assess that. That's what the city council is for. That doesn't affect my statement, which I share with Mr Van Hattem, that you must have a connection with the local community, otherwise of course you can't do your job properly. An outside alderman must therefore invest in it. He must make sure that he is connected with the inhabitants of the church where he or she is alderman. That goes for every alderman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u33	Do I have to conclude from the Minister's reply at the moment that, as far as she is concerned, the requirement of residence can go into the trash?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u34	Not at all, on the contrary. I have just stated that the residence requirement simply continues to exist in the law. It's about the exemption option. Mr Van Hattem's question was how often it actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u35	But I heard the Minister say very clearly that the city council can very well decide for itself whether or not college members should live in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u36	If Mrs. Huijbregts has heard that, I have not expressed myself well. What I wanted to say is that it is up to the council to assess whether the alderman who lives outside the municipality and has that exemption has sufficient connection with the inhabitants of the municipality. That was my statement. It is good that you asked for this, because I hope that you have clarified it. The most important point, therefore, is that I believe that the Council should assess this. I also find it a tricky proposition that you should always experience the effects of your policy personally. It depends entirely on the portfolio whether an alderman who does live in his or her own municipality experiences the effects of his or her policy. Suppose you're an alderman of education and you don't have children. Then you do not personally experience the consequences of your policy, but you can still be a very good alderman of education. So I wouldn't share that statement. Then there's the motivation. Questions have been asked about this by Mr Van Hattem and Mr Köhler. Indeed, the proposed legislative amendment no longer refers to a particular case. However, this does not alter the fact that an administrative body always has an obligation to state reasons, especially if an exception to the main rule is chosen. So that's just normal business. The legislative proposal therefore does not change the Council's obligation to state reasons. The new proposed second paragraph expresses the power of the Board, as it is now, to provide for the waiver of the requirement of residence of aldermen when the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u37	Does the Minister now confirm my statement that the Council's sole justification that the alderman in question is from outside the best candidate is a sufficient supporting statement of reasons? Or does she say: no, there has to be a particular reason why the alderman doesn't have to move from outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u38	My answer is that a statement of reasons is necessary, but that the statement of reasons is up to the Council. It is therefore up to the elected representative of the people to decide whether the reasons put forward are sufficient in his view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u39	Do you have anything else, Mr. Köhler? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u40	I still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u41	Very good, discipline!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u42	Mr Van Hattem also asked whether the provinces are not large enough to find enough good delegates. It was a bit more about the provinces; I speak mainly about the municipalities. I would point out that the IPO, the umbrella organisation of the provinces, supports the bill. It doesn't happen often, but in practice it does. In the past period, therefore, two delegates from outside the province have been active. The Provincial States, like the Council, are democratically legitimized. They are the people's representative and can make up for that weighting in my view. I have just answered Mr Van Hattem's question about local government, the local autonomy and the space that this proposal creates for that purpose. He related that to matters that we do impose. For example, he mentioned the reclassifications. That's his interpretation. I am very pleased with the idea that as much as possible should come from the bottom up, and I have also established a new framework on this. It is therefore up to the municipalities themselves to decide on these reclassifications, which must be supported. In the end, of course, a reclassification is something that is up to the legislator; that of course makes a difference. Mr Van Hattem also informed about the four aldermen who did not have that exemption. It is true that the survey showed that there were four aldermen from outside who did not have the exemption. That is not in accordance with the law, because it stipulates that someone from outside must have an exemption. If that is not the case, it must be maintained by the Council as a result of the Municipal Act. Then we are back to where it all has to be done, namely the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u43	You can leave everything with the board, but if the Ministry of the Interior finds that there is still a breach of the law, there is still some kind of inter-administrative supervision in this country, the Ministry does not see the need to check the municipalities? The Ministry can then look at where and why no exemption has been granted and simply act as a enforcement act, if those municipalities apparently fail to maintain themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u44	I told you, it's up to the council. The law is clear. The council must maintain it. This has now proved to be the case, and I assume that the municipal councils will take action on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u45	The Minister assumes that the municipal councils will take action on this. On what basis does the Minister assume? Is she gonna check that out? Is she gonna put an action on that? Is she gonna monitor that? Is something gonna happen to that given?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u46	First of all, this must be done by the municipal councils themselves. I agree with Mr Van Hattem: if no exemption has been granted, the councils must do something. I am confident that these municipal councils themselves are capable of doing so. I don't think I have to operate on that right now. In a way, I do not have that competence at all. Let us assume that the municipal councils, like you and I, believe that that law should be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u47	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u48	But apparently it doesn't happen. Inter-administrative supervision, i.e. the supervisory role of the Ministry, may then be expected to occur if there is evidence of non-compliance with the law. The Minister is actually saying: we know that the law is not being complied with and we are not going to take any supervisory action from the Ministry. Is that the correct summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u49	I am not the supervisor on this matter, but those are the municipal councils; they must supervise it. I'll see if there are any other questions I haven't answered, but I actually think I have answered the questions I asked. I note that Mr Van Hattem and Mr Köhler still have a number of points to which they may return in the second term. I'll wait for that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u50	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem. Are you ready for that, Mr. Van Hattem? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister talking about more local tailor-made work and doing justice to local autonomy, but we have a law here and a law is something that we try to standardize nationally. In this way you can say in everything you want to leave it to local. But with that, it is called a dead letter. Surely it cannot be the intention of a legal system to be declared a dead letter here? The Minister says that there is a sense of feeling and commitment. But how can this feeling and commitment be there if a waiver is granted once per board period, at the beginning of the board period. After that, she says it's up to the council. If the board is going through the administration period that there is no feeling and connection with the alderman who is 100 kilometers away and who barely shows up in the municipality, then they can only do one thing if they want to intervene: send the alderman away. That is the ultimate consequence. There's no other way to adjust. Now you have a stick behind the door, because you can say: you have to make sure that you have moved within a year and are going to live in this municipality. But otherwise it's completely unbiased: stay calm in your current hometown, nothing's going on. Then there is no sanction for the city council. That's what's missing from this law. You can say that it is up to the city council to judge, but if the journey, during those four years, turns out that it is not to be desired, then the city council has no instruments to act against it. The Minister also says that the obligation to state reasons remains, but that obligation to state reasons is not enforceable at all. For, as Mr Köhler has just said, if he is simply a good alderman and he is therefore put down, what is the possibility of maintaining the principle that there should be a more extensive justification? Any possible argument is then sufficient in principle. I can make a long story short. What the minister lays down here is completely unconvincing why an alderman has feelings and ties with the local community. Same for the deputy. Therefore, the PVV Group will not be able to support this bill. Mr. Chairman. So far in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u53	Mr. Chairman. As the Minister rightly points out, this bill is based on a June 2014 motion. I've been reading it for a while. I believe that during the five years between that motion and the discussion of this proposal, the Minister could have debated the position and changes within local government and the consequences for the profile of the directors. We talked about this in the Deconstitutionalisation Bill as mayor. This, too, was such a legislative proposal that has far-reaching consequences for the functioning of local government. Every time there is some repair at the house of Thorbecke, but it is a pity that we cannot make these connections. That doesn't do the construction of the house any good. Mr. Chairman. The minister says that the principle of the bill is that it is not the legislator, but the city council about the exemption. My group is very much in favour of local autonomy. We have faith in the city councils. We have also made this point on several occasions in legislative proposals which were a little out of touch with this autonomy. In legislative processes, other departments also gave the municipality a task in which that autonomy was not directly realized. But the legislator determines the area in which municipalities have that freedom of choice. It therefore lays down the conditions to be met in order to grant that freedom of choice and exemption. That's our big objection. The main objection of the VVD is that it is an unbiased choice. Go ahead. If you want, go ahead. In fact, that is the message we send to municipalities. That is not the job of the legislator. If we agree that the residence requirement is the basis of our local and provincial democracy, then we will have to limit that possibility. Mr. Chairman. The VVD clearly has a different appreciation of the meaning of that residence principle than the Minister. We will not be able to agree on this in this debate. However, I have missed a response from the Minister to our statement that it is of two and one: either you maintain the residence requirement and you attach restrictions to it, or you let it go completely and you leave it to the autonomy of the municipality. That is consistent, and that is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u54	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u55	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply, but I do not want to hide the fact that I am rather disappointed with the answer. I do not think the Minister is very consistent. If I understand the Minister correctly, she says, as in the written consultation on this bill, that we are only giving some extra room for customization and we are investing in it locally; it strengthens local autonomy. It is therefore possible to look locally at whether the residence requirement for a candidate alderman should be so heavy, or whether one can say locally: no, in this case we prefer someone from outside, even if they are not moving. We don't tend to take that view, but you can find it. If that is what you think then, you just have to be honest and say: we are now going to give the municipalities the autonomy to not declare the residence requirement applicable at all. In this way, the main principle of the Municipal Law has been abandoned, namely that the entire municipal administration must in principle reside in the municipality, except in the case of more detailed exceptions. Aldermen may then stay outside permanently, as opposed to not only the council members, but also the mayor, who gets a maximum of a few years delay and then has to move. All this is done on the basis of the principle that B and W are part of the municipal board together with the city council, and that the municipal board should in principle live in the municipality, so that the population in the Netherlands chooses its own board from among its members. What was first a small exception on pragmatic grounds is now simply brought in as equivalent by the minister under the motto: that is what municipal councils can best know for themselves. We do not have that position, but if the Minister does have that position, she must propose to amend the Community law. Then the Minister says: yes, but the city council is well on it and really judges it. I doubt that. In practice, it is agreed in most municipalities in coalition formation that parties themselves may provide an alderman. In practice, each party may choose its own alderman and then some parties will say: we want one from outside, but it does not intend to move. That's all in the deal. Next, the programme agreement and the alderman's composition are passed by the city council, because there is a majority for that. That's how it's gonna be in practice. This is how it is going to be in Brabant, as I have heard in this debate. We don't want that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister also said that the State is not a regulator or the municipalities comply with the law. I think this is a misunderstanding after all. If municipalities break the law, there is indeed a supervisory role in administrative practice, both from the province by the King's commissioner, and ultimately also for the Minister of the Interior. Perhaps the Minister should clarify a little more clearly why she feels that, in the event of a possible violation of law, she does not have a supervisory role, even if she observes that breach of law. Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the numbers. From this I understand that a year after the last election 11.5% of the aldermen in the colleges of B and W did not live in the municipality that she ruled. Eight years before, that was 6% after a year. Four years before it was 9% after a year. So now it's 11% after a year. So it grows: the alderman from outside who doesn't intend to move to the municipality he runs, or who may be planning to do so, but doesn't. So we do not think that is a good development. What I wanted to say about the council committees, I'm gonna leave now. Or let me just say one sentence to such a technical chairman. It's not just that the council members can say together that they'd rather have a technical chairman. For example, when speakers come to a council committee, such a technical chairman is the one to be spoken to. So that's a hired force from outside. As a speaker, you think you can leave a message at the city council and then leave a message to a technical chairman who says after three minutes: your time is up. That's just a step back for the recognizability of the city council. I am sorry that the Minister is not aware of this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u56	Your time is almost up, too. You're over it, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u57	That's why my last sentence. I am obliged to advise the SP groups, the Animal Party, but also all the other groups here, not to vote in favour of this bill next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u58	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I would like to ask the Minister if she has the opportunity to reply directly. I see that's the case. That's good. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u59	Thank you again, also for the second term. Let me put it this way: some people here see black and white and I think there is a lot of gray around here. In any case, I hear Mrs Huijbregts saying that she has a great deal of confidence in the municipal councils. I'm very happy about that. Yeah, I do. That's actually my starting point. We must have that confidence in the elected representatives of the municipal councils and in the Provincial States. I hear this from Mr Van Hattem and Mr Köhler a little less, because they want to impose more restrictions on it than I propose here. There's no training for aldermanship. Once you're or want to be, you can get some help. There are certainly ways through the Aldermen's Association to get people ready for that, but it is not a profession you learned for after school. It's a special office. It's a political office. It's an honorable office and it really fits local democracy. It is, by the way, a post that we all appreciate very much, I think. That connection with that local community is therefore essential. I am convinced that all aldermen, including the aldermen who have been granted an exemption and come from outside, are well able to do their work with commitment and with a sense of what is needed locally. This is essential, and the current practice and the new proposal do nothing about it. It is the council that can best weigh that, precisely because the council is the local parliament. I think he's quite capable of making that weighing. Again, nothing changes to the residence requirement. Something is being changed only with regard to the exemption and the duration of that exemption. It is therefore not an extension of residence requirement. It is an extension of the exemption system which increases the possibility of local customization and does justice to local autonomy. That is the reason for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u60	According to the Minister, Mr Köhler and I would have a little less confidence in the Council or... States, but it is not just about the Council or the States as a whole, but also about the different positions in the Council or the States. The appointment of an alderman or deputy is always, by definition, in the interest of a narrow part of the council or States: of a coalition party, of a particular party. In the Council or States as a whole, there is always a part that will object to this or make a different weighting of whether or not to apply the obligation to move to an alderman or a deputy. That part of the council or the States is given fewer tools by this law to act against it. They cannot say after a year: gosh, the requirement of residence is not met and there is too little connection and touch with the local community; will we not reconsider this? Now it really becomes part of a coalition discussion, of the moment of the appointment of that alderman or alderman. who was a deputy. This means that the various political groups, parts, members of the Council and the States have fewer tools to do their democratic work. That's one of the objections I feel about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u61	With all due respect, I understand Mr Van Hattem's position, but that is of course no different now. For once again a waiver must be granted, so even now a majority of the coalition majority might be able to make a choice in it, another part of which the opposition might find something different. There is that possibility now. This proposal has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u62	Very briefly, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u63	Yes, there is that possibility now, but now there is still the possibility and even the duty to reconsider it every year. Each year the discussion can be held on whether there is any connection or contact with the council, with the local community. If you can't do that anymore, you're just stuck with it for four years. Then the only possibility is the ultimate remedium to send away an alderman or deputy. In practice, for this reason, it may not happen as often as possible, because then it is again too heavy a means to strengthen the bonding and feeling with the local community. But just the duty to move is a nice stick behind the door to make sure that you can reconsider that every year. If it is not applied in year one, you can say: do it in year two. If it didn't happen after year two, you can still make that assessment. Now it's just four years and you're more or less stuck to it without being able to pull the red card right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u64	I cannot, of course, rule out the possibility that such a situation will ever happen, but the opposite is also quite possible: that there is a very good reason, which is understood by the full council, which would very much like to exempt it for the whole period, but it cannot, because there is no such legal possibility. For the exceptions you can never arrange everything completely, but I think this does justice to the practice, to feeling in the local government that it is better to do so. By the way, I would like to say to Mrs Huijbregts that I would not be in favour of deleting the whole residence requirement. I do not think there would be a political majority for that either. That is what I meant by saying in black and white that it is one of two, that there is either a residence requirement with restrictions or no residence requirement at all. No, I think that is the charm of this proposal: the residence requirement is not affected, but something of the restriction is removed by a slightly wider possibility of granting exemption. This does justice to the local autonomy and the trust that we can give to the representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u65	It is a very last remark on this subject, but also in this Chamber: the residence requirement is implicitly removed by this unlimited exemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u66	Mrs Huijbregts may give that interpretation to it, but it really is an interpretation, because the residence requirement simply remains in the law. One restriction is lifted, namely the possibility of the derogation for the period. Then I am with Mr Köhler. I would like to say to him: the rule is the rule; there are exceptions, but it is not the case that the exception becomes the rule. So that's consistent. We have already opened up the possibility in the past, for example, of the dualisation of directors not being elected by the people. Indirectly, of course. Mr Köhler said: 'The people choose their own government'. No, the people choose their own parliament. The population elects the city council and the city council controls the board. This proposal, which does not affect the residence requirement as such, is therefore a much less significant change than Mr Köhler suggests here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u67	In the dualisation of the municipal administration system, we have already built in that aldermen are no longer directly elected through council lists. I have listed that point as a rather negative point in my first term. But then it was still the rule that it had to be people from the municipality itself. It was also said that if you make an exception to that because people have to move, it may last up to a year. That was all expressed by the legislator at the time. From this point of view, you are moving forward step by step. You're right that it's only a gradual difference every time. The ice is getting a little warmer and at some point it is no longer ice, but water. That is what you are doing with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u68	This too is an interpretation of Mr Köhler. I am just saying that the rule is the rule and there is an exception, which is already there, to which we grant a little more powers, namely the granting of the waiver to the parliament. Finally, the question of the possibility for the Minister of State to intervene, because that is the last question that has been asked. I have no specific competence with regard to decisions taken by a council as a result of the Municipal Act. It is also part of local autonomy that the Minister does not have that competence. I'm not authorized to fire aldermen if they don't meet legal requirements. The city council has the authority to do so. That is what the legislator has decided. You can decide on this, but the law does not yet see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u69	Mr. Van Hattem, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u70	Yes, very briefly Chairman. The point is that if a municipality does not comply with the legal requirements, it is indeed up to the city council to dismiss an alderman, but if, for example, job neglect occurs, there is indeed a ground for a higher administration to intervene in a municipality. Now it appears that there have actually been no exemptions granted by a city council. When a municipality says "we're not gonna house status holders"...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u71	Short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u72	...then the ministry and the county are ready to intervene with that municipality. Surveillance letters will then be sent. Why not send a monitoring letter from the Ministry to say: this is a job neglect, do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u73	Because it would be my contention that job neglect is not at all a matter of concern. It is a matter that leaves the municipal law to local autonomy. Local autonomy must deal with it if there is to be a conflict with the law. It is true that this would be the case in the event of job neglect, but that is not at all the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-15.u75	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 8:30.
