ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of the SP, for his question to the Minister for Justice and Security, about the fact that justice more often leaves fraud investigations to lawyers of companies. Of course, I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	When this minister arrived, I congratulated him on his book 'Rafels to the Rule of Law', but I do not think that the Minister's concerns about these rattles are completely gone. In fact, there are very strange developments. Do we get any more rattles on the rule of law? We have discussed in depth the difference in criminal treatment between people and large companies. If someone makes a mistake and is accused of, for example, social security fraud, then we are tough and we are threatening sanctions, harsh sanctions. But if a large company is cheating, for example, I mention an ING where the money laundering control failed and hundreds of millions of euros have been laundered for years, then such a company can buy off criminal proceedings by settling with the Public Prosecutor's Office; no person is being prosecuted. I've called that class justice before. And now justice is going in here, it seems, a step further. Today, in the Financial Daily, we read that we have companies suspected of fraud and corruption hire their own lawyers for the investigation. Let me repeat this: a company suspected of corruption or fraud is now being investigated not by the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office, but by its own lawyers. This then offers these companies the chance of reducing penalties and reducing reputational damage. That seems to me to be a celebration for these fraudulent companies and very bad for the credibility of our criminal law. I have one key question: why? Why should we allow fraudulent companies to investigate themselves and let them investigate themselves by lawyers who are hired by those potentially fraudulent companies themselves instead of the justice system? How does that all contribute to the truth finding and justice? Why doesn't the Minister stop, in the interests of the rule of law? No more rattles on the rule of law, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is of course beautiful when Mr Van Nispen refers to a book of mine. Unfortunately, it is out of pressure, so at least the Chamber can be assured that I am not taking any advantage of it. We shouldn't jump to conclusions too quickly, to use a nice anglicism, because the headline in the newspaper may be a little too fast. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the FIOD investigate whether and where there is a profit in cooperating in fraud investigations by suspicious companies. There have been very good experiences in the United States of America. By the way, this happens now and then. Any suspect could be involved in the investigation. Then it's about the truth finding that we all have an interest in as a society, of course. Better cooperation between the Public Prosecutor, the prosecuting authority and the accused party, whether it is a natural person or a company.... always means that an investigation of fraud, for example, can be done more efficiently and better. But let's face it, there are all kinds of conditions. One is that the Public Prosecutor's Office always has the final say on whether further research is needed and whether the company's own data should not be re-examined. The FIOD also always does its own key on that data. So we should, I think, first see what the findings will be from the D.A.'s office and the FIOD. There will be no class justice here. First of all, not because, as has been said, cooperating in finding the truth in one's own business is something that the legal person but also a natural person can do. Secondly, because as far as I am concerned, but also internationally, we have an excellent judiciary that will counter class justice. Finally. When we talk about the state of law, we have to talk about companies that are suspected or possibly suspected of fraud and not about fraud, because that is what the investigation is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. No one is opposed to us asking companies to cooperate in research. We ask ordinary people to do the same, and then they can say yes or no. But that is different from cooperation with a reduction in penalties, as we read in the article. And not just in the headlines, Minister! I've really looked further. The coordinating district attorney says in the article that this is useful for the public prosecutor. This is because there is a large capacity shortage. So the question to the Minister is also: is this because of the capacity problems at the Public Prosecutor's Office? Is this now the state of our public sector: that the need is so high that fraudulent companies are no longer being investigated by the State to be punished? Yeah, they keep the last word. Is it true that we ask companies to clean themselves? This is not how our rule of law works! My follow-up questions are next. How many times has this happened? The minister says we're investigating this right now. I read in the article that we are already dealing on the basis of this method. So how many times has this happened? What kind of business was it? Why don't we know anything about that so far? Doesn't the Minister see any risks for the truth finding? 'Cause I can see that one. Something with toilet duck or, if you like, the butcher who approves his own flesh. And what kind of penalty reduction is possible? My final question is: are ordinary people allowed to do this from now on, or is this something exclusively for the big companies? So if any person is suspected of fraud, can that person from now on also hire his own lawyer to expose those own fraudulent practices? Does the Justice Department take a step back? Can that person also count on a reduction in the sentence? In short, does this apply to everyone? Because if that is not the case, if the answer to that question is "no," then it seems obvious to me that there is a form of class justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. The fact that a suspect, whether a company or a person, is involved in the criminal investigation against that suspect, is something of all times. So that's not something new. The article states that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Fiscal Intelligence and Investigation Service (FIOD) are investigating whether and where there are efficiency gains to be achieved in this respect by expanding and tightening that cooperation. This is still an independent test by both the FIOD or the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why the comparisons with the approval of one's own meat or with the mark you have just mentioned, which I will not, of course, repeat, do not apply. Mr Van Nispen asks whether there is equality. When it comes to a large company, there is certainly a balancing of efficiency for the D.A. It is a question of whether we know exactly which people to focus on. And let's face it, the D.A. is still doing that in an independent way. There is more efficiency to be achieved than in a small business. But the starting point is that any suspect can cooperate in finding the truth in his own cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. So this is about efficiency after all. That's what we've been talking about. That's what we read in the article. That's what I said. The Minister's honest about that. This is about efficiency. It's kind of like sending out a motorist with a flash and asking him to report when he's driving too fast. In return, he'll get a lower fine. That is absolutely absurd! As far as the SP is concerned, we must tackle white-collar criminals harder and punish them instead of covering fraud and corruption with the cloak of love.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen is making another comparison that is really limp. We don't say to a company: if you're busy, please see if you're breaking anything. No, if there is a situation in which a suspicion has arisen, we consider whether there can be co-operation on certain points for the truth finding. So that's a lot different than sending someone out with a flash. Anyway, this whole thing aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van Nispen for raising this subject. I do have a question about efficiency and control after that. It is said that this is often complex, and I think that this is what makes it obvious for companies to play a greater role in cooperating in research, but an independent test is still taking place afterwards. So what exactly is the efficiency gain? In other words, if you want to avoid the risks outlined by Mr Van Nispen, are you not actually obliged to set up the test afterwards in such a way that the efficiency advantage is quite disappointing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Groothuizen knows from his rich experience as a prosecutor that you can end up in a situation where it is important to hear a large number of witnesses in the context of the investigation, without knowing exactly what and who to focus on. Let me give you an example, huh? Suppose you agree with the company that those witnesses are initially heard by the company's lawyer. That clearly gives credibility, because that lawyer has sworn with an oath or a promise that he will not go against the truth. The D.A. can then make a selection from those statements already made by employees and continue to do so. The DA can still think to himself: well, I don't believe what the lawyer comes with. The efficiency advantage is not so great, but I think that the public prosecutor sees opportunities for efficiency gains there for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you.
