ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u1	The next item is the General Affairs Council. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week there was a chaotic general discussion and I didn't even participate!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u3	That was because the minister had no position. Now you know us as Chamber: you cannot argue without a position. Not only my colleague Frank Futselaar, but just about everyone, minus the VVD; you have to support your minister a little bit, so you said: how can we discuss this? There was no point of view. Then we split up and this VAO was planned, and then we came up with a position. Now I ask the Minister: how does he look at that himself? What happens deserves absolutely no beauty prize. On 29 May there will be a report from the European Commission on accession or further chapters. That will have to be decided by the Heads of Government within a month. It is a bit pushed down our throats, just to say it in Dutch. And you shouldn't do that when you join. You just need to take your time. However good it may be in some countries, as far as the SP is concerned, it is not good enough to say: we are now taking the next step. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission intends to open accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania;]] [[Considering that the Government does not support this proposal for good reasons for Albania;]] [[considers that the political situation in northern Macedonia is improving, but there is still little progress in many areas;]] [[calls on the Government not to support the opening of accession negotiations with North Macedonia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2018]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u4	It did indeed go as Mrs Leijten just outlined. So it was good to hear that again so pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u5	I'll follow you, Mr. Van Ojik!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u6	The SP Group does have a position. I asked her colleague Futselaar this last week, but that was not the case at the end of the day. What is the key point for the SP to say: the European Commission recommends that the accession negotiations begin, but we, the SP, do not think that is a good idea? What is the decisive reason for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u7	You also asked Mr Futselaar that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u8	Yes. Then Mr Futselaar said: since I am not a spokesperson, I find it difficult to answer that question. I have expressed my sympathy for this, but I will of course not miss the opportunity to ask the spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u9	What exactly is the situation, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u10	I have, of course, prepared myself particularly well for this; you understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u11	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u12	Because this promise was indeed made in the debate. I think that when you read the progress report, you actually read a little too often "a certain level of preparation." In some areas it says 'this is at the level of the other European countries', for example when it comes to children's rights. But in too many areas, such as corruption, the judiciary, political embezzlement and minorities, there is progress, but as far as we are concerned, not enough to really open those accession negotiations. This is also true in view of the fact that there is a great deal of thought in the region of the Western Balkans: once these books are opened, 2025 has actually been achieved. That is a little promised by the European Commission. So, yeah, when it comes to North Macedonia, I'm assuming that's what it was about. It looks good. The agreement on the name is, of course, also a very brave step. That really is a historic breakthrough. But it's still very vulnerable. We know the Greek elections are coming. So let's just look at this for another year and encourage that progress, but don't say: you can already join it. Because let's be honest: they're just not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u13	I pretend I don't see Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u14	I see him!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u15	This argument or this way of looking at the situation can you keep repeating it endlessly? There is also a bit of my concern about this position, including from other parties. You can always say that they are just not far enough for the next step, but the next step is only to start on a trajectory that may take up to 30 years. So why can't they just get started? Offer them perspective!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u16	I think we can also offer perspective in other ways. I believe that we have said in previous enlargements that we should learn from the process. I'd be delighted if there were any other forms than that one promise. In fact, we have also seen that it is precisely the accession that may stand in the way of other developments. I don't want to say here that it's all wrong and that all these people are bad. The same applies to Albania. There is some process in that too, and the whole Chamber, almost unanimously, says that we do not want that either. The same applies to visa-free travel. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask you one more thing. The way I see it now, it seems like a tying: it is North Macedonia and Albania. I would like this not to be a tying situation, that we approach countries on their progress and that we decide on a country-by-country basis, as we have always agreed. This has always been the view of the Netherlands. That is what I would expect from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I said last week in the AO on behalf of my group that GroenLinks is in favour of starting accession negotiations. This applies both to northern Macedonia and to Albania, although I also think that you should look at these two separately. I actually have three reasons for that. I believe that starting accession negotiations can promote stability in the region, I think it can and will support democratisation movements in those countries themselves, and I think it is a good answer to the geopolitical advance of countries such as China, Russia and perhaps Turkey. However, my group believes that starting accession negotiations is not a panacea either. It will not suddenly put China and Russia out of play in the Western Balkans. It will not automatically and linearly lead to democratisation, which is never self-evident. And we will have to work towards acceptance and the Union's decision-making capacity if we are to prepare for possible future membership of new Member States. I hope that we will come back to this next week when we debate the European summit with the Prime Minister; at least, as far as I am concerned, we will do so. The cabinet says we're not taking a stand. Minister Blok said in the debate last week: then we give away our influence; then I give away my potential influence. I don't see it that way. By choosing to negotiate now, we are providing ourselves with at least the ten years that these negotiations are going to take. In particular, let us say this clearly again: the instruments and the influence to steer development in the Western Balkans in the right direction. We must not allow ourselves to be taken away from this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u20	Thank you, Mr President. In recent years, in Albania and in northern Macedonia, many people of good will have worked towards a better society, a robust rule of law and institutions that protect people rather than make citizens feel attacked. All those people of good will have done so because they consider it important themselves, but they also felt supported by the encouragement of the EU and the prospect of the possible opening of negotiations. And what do they get from the Dutch cabinet? This note; I don't think it's even an A4's. That note was only given to us, our Chamber, after we explicitly asked for it in a rather surreal debate. Why was that so surreal? It is precisely the image I have outlined of all those people of good will who are committed to a better society and who are negotiating with each other that is not just about politicians; it is a deeply rooted feeling in that society and of that perseverance and commitment to the future of their children is in a very great contrast to this nothing note. So I would very much like to know from the Minister how he bases his assessment that one country may be eligible and the other not. In what way did he look at the Copenhagen criteria? Does he agree with me that the people in Albania and in northern Macedonia, but also in the Netherlands, deserve much better? In the Netherlands too, we would like to know why we are coming to certain decisions and why the opening of negotiations is a good idea in our view. The cabinet only creates fog and refuses to speak out. That is extremely disappointing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u21	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Oh, Mr Omtzigt has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u22	I constantly hear about the difference between the government and the people themselves, but I believe that the European Commission is opening negotiations with the governments, not with the Albanian people or the people of northern Macedonia. In your opinion, does the Albanian Government meet the commitments in such a way that we could start negotiations with Albania?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u23	Mr Omtzig's question surprises me a little and I will tell you why. I believe that one of the lessons that we have learned from previous negotiations on possible enlargement is that it is not enough for a government to tick the lists and if a government changes laws, for example, it does not change the supervision of those laws. One of the lessons is that if you want countries to feel part of our commonality, it must also be something for citizens. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the EU does not negotiate with citizens. At the same time, I would point out to Mr Omtzig that if there is no such wish on the part of the people and it is just some kind of cosmetic operation or process on the part of the government, it is totally pointless to open negotiations of this kind. Then the answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u24	Oh, I thought you already did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u25	Well, he's gonna say otherwise he didn't get an answer. He got half the answer. We have also looked carefully at the progress reports and, like last year, we have looked carefully at whether the conditions have been met. We've adjusted and weighed. Our answer is: yes, also for Albania and also for northern Macedonia, it is now possible for us to discuss opening accession negotiations. That's the first step. I should like to stick to the metaphor of Mr Verhoeven: that is the first step on the doormat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u26	Okay. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u27	That in itself is a clear answer to the question. The fact that there is actually only one judge in the Supreme Court, that tapes have been leaked, that the mayor of Durrës and his party would have contacts with the local mafia and would actually appoint all members of parliament, that no investigation will be started...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u28	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u29	... none of these are obstacles for the Labour Party to wait a little longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u30	If Mr Omtzigt, like myself, had read with some care the report drawn up by our colleague, Anne Mulder, as rapporteur, he would have read that not all judges have been appointed, but that this is a result of the fact that measures have rightly been taken against the incumbent magistrate and that new judges should be appointed. So, to put it in perspective, we are talking here about opening accession negotiations, and that does not mean the end of the process. This means that we believe that the process, if you put it alongside the Copenhagen criteria, is sufficiently advanced to do so. This does not mean that the people of Albania now think that the rule of law is a mustache. Those people will continue to fight for that, and that is, of course, necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u32	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u33	I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u34	Thank you, Mr President. It was indeed a strange debate last week. Despite Mrs Leijten's absence, it was a strange debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u35	That must have been very annoying for you, because Mrs Leijten wasn't there. That was a miss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u36	For me, it was also a bit of getting used to, but what I missed even more than Mrs Leijten was a government position. Mrs Leijten, and anyone who said anything about it, had that right. In addition to the substantive discussion on enlargement, we still need to have a fundamental discussion. The government cannot say every time that it does not take a position because otherwise it would not have a negotiating space. This happens with the Multiannual Financial Framework. That is what happens with the enlargement package. We have here in the Chamber the agreement that we will give some direction in advance to the efforts of the Netherlands and check them afterwards. We must be able to do this on the basis of a cabinet position. And it wasn't there. I would therefore like an answer from the Minister to the following question. How are we going to deal with other dossiers in the future, without us always sitting in the Chamber with a cabinet that hardly wants to take a stand because that would be at the expense of the negotiating position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u37	Mrs Leijten is standing by the interrupting microphone, but she says it can also be done at the end of your speech. So you're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u38	I had asked another question about a smaller European Commission and the commitment of the Netherlands in this regard. I would like an answer to that, because I spent quite a lot of my speaking time last week. Finally, the substance of today's debate. I can be very short. My group is in fact on the same lines as expressed by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. We believe that both North Macedonia and Albania should be looked at in isolation, but also that there is sufficient reason for both countries to offer the perspective that emerges from the start of the negotiations. The start of negotiations, Mrs Ploumen, called this just the first step on the doormat, is not the same as joining the Union. That is just as the association agreement with Ukraine was not an accession to the European Union. Negotiations with Turkey have been frozen for many years, even since 2005, because there is no desirable course for the European Union in that country. For Montenegro and Serbia it has also been going on for many years and yet they have only perfected a very small part of the total package. In short, starting the conversations is not the same as joining. That is why I think we should say that the talks can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u39	I just wanted to say that the SP was present at the debate last week. Because that's where the MP who taught humor replaced me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u40	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u41	Mr Frank Futselaar of the SP was there. That is absolutely the case. It was not that the SP was absent, but let's be honest: Frank Futselaar is not Renske Leijten and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u42	And the other way around. Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. Mr Omtzigt now has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u43	Mr. Chairman. The European Commission presented its progress report on enlargement two weeks ago. It proposes to open accession talks with northern Macedonia and Albania. As regards the opening of negotiations with North Macedonia, the CDA agrees with the proposal to open a limited number of chapters, conditional on certain follow-up steps related to legislation still to be adopted. As far as Albania is concerned, it is another matter. The CDA is against opening negotiations with that country. It has been clear for a long time that Albanian criminals have been a great deal of trouble in the Netherlands and other European countries. My colleague Mr Van Toorenburg has tabled a motion on this. The cabinet is also very concerned about these criminal gangs that travel through Europe, as the letter in response to our motion shows. My colleague therefore also opened emergency braking procedures on visas. Enough reasons not to start accession negotiations, you'd say. Unfortunately, that's not all. The elections for the next month will be cancelled. There seem to be demonstrable ties between the Mafia and the government that are not being investigated. Lawsuits are suspended and there is hardly any judge left in the constitutional court. I can go on for a while. This violates not only the fundamental values of the EU, but also the conditions that the Commission itself lays down when drawing up the progress report. In fact, it is incomprehensible to us that the Commission considers and proposes to start accession negotiations now. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the Dutch Government, Albania is also not achieving sufficient tangible results in the fight against corruption and organised crime;]] [[Notes that, on the basis of this progress report, Albania does not fulfil the conditions laid down;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government not to accept the Commission's proposal to start negotiations on accession to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Anne Mulder and Mr Drost. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2019]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u44	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had a rather bizarre debate with Minister Blok, a debate on the enlargement of the European Union, on whether or not to open accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania. The debate was bizarre in that sense, because the Cabinet letter did not show the message Mr Blok intended to travel to Brussels and we still did not know it after two hours of committee meeting. Minister Blok then received homework and the Chamber received a new letter, a new A4'. I have a few more questions about that. Is it true that, under certain conditions, the Netherlands will agree to the opening of negotiations with North Macedonia, I ask the Minister? Is it true that the Netherlands does not agree if these conditions are not linked to the Council's response? Is it true, as I am asking the Minister, that the Netherlands at next week's General Affairs Council does not under any circumstances agree to the opening of negotiations with Albania? Finally, Mr President. The PVV's commitment is clear: no enlargement of the European Union and no steps in this direction. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet never to agree, even under conditions, to open accession negotiations with Albania,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet never to agree, even under conditions, to open accession negotiations with northern Macedonia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2020]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2021]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u45	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked and a number of motions have been tabled. First of all, Mrs Leijten. I say to her that I missed her, although I very much appreciated Mr Futselaar's input. Mr Futselaar was in the SP tradition. I believe he has already announced a motion in his third sentence, which has now been tabled. But he does that differently from Mrs Leijten. This brings me to Mrs Leijten's motion, which calls on the government not to support the opening of accession negotiations with northern Macedonia. I indicated last time in the AO, and in the letters I sent, that it is important for Macedonia to take further steps. I specifically mentioned the legislation on the Special Prosecutor. But I also think that Macedonia has taken a number of steps in the right direction, both in the referendum on the name change and in the content. I would like to see more, as I stated in detail last time. But Mrs Leijten is quite sure to say that accession cannot be at all, even if the additional conditions are met. I'm gonna have to advise against that. Mr Van Ojik once again called for the immediate opening of the accession negotiations. Last time, the debate was extensive. Of course, I respect Mr Van Ojik's position, but you are undermining your negotiating position, I also say in response to Mrs Ploumen. I think you should judge both countries on their own merits. Mrs Leijten asked for this, but I did say that very clearly in the last AO. You must be in a situation of right cross. I therefore expect steps from Macedonia. I expect more from Albania. But the possibility of linking this to the opening of the negotiations is given out of your hands when you make the choice that Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen make. Mrs Ploumen asks on the basis of what criteria I then assess this. I have just mentioned Macedonia very specifically. Moreover, this does not include slipping back where progress has already been made. This is a lesson from previous accessions. We also discussed this extensively in last week's AO. Sometimes we've had to deal with the slipping back of countries after they were admitted. That's a lesson we need to learn. There is still a much longer way to go in Albania. Steps have been taken to reform the judiciary, but that is really still work in progress. I also mention the actual convictions for corruption. These follow-up steps are really still needed, as I have clearly indicated in the general consultation and in the letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u47	Maybe one more time at that point when you have more influence. The Minister is now saying, as he said in the AO, that if I say that they are allowed to negotiate accession, then I will give away my influence. I would also ask him to respond to the argument that I put against it, namely that if you open those negotiations, you will then have at least ten years to go as long as those negotiations last, and that is precisely what gives you the tools to exercise that influence. I think the Minister should respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u48	Certainly, as I did in the debate we had then. I've indicated that there are more thresholds, but you've given them away. The second thing that is going on is the pressure that is now being built up in the countries themselves, but also by a number of similar countries, in order to speed up the start of accession negotiations. The same pressure can be seen when accession negotiations have begun. We are now seeing this in the countries that are now in that follow-up phase of accession negotiations that have already begun. There is pressure on the opening of chapters, which we say should be earned. Fortunately, Mr Van Ojik nods at me now. So we agree that even if you have taken such a step, there is another kind of pressure that we also see at the beginning of a negotiation process, so as to take a further step, when our line is really strict and pure. We want to see progress and we also want to see this progress maintained before a follow-up step is taken. That really is a lesson from previous accessions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u49	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u50	Very briefly. Last year we were as a chamber committee in Serbia and Montenegro. Those are exactly the countries the Minister is talking about. That is where we sit virtually every day, and every day we have the opportunity to imagine what we really think is important in that dialogue. I would say that these negotiations are the ideal forum and mechanism for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u51	But then Mr Van Ojik also knows that there is now pressure to open chapters, which I believe is too early and I want to see results first. So the process I'm setting out is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u52	Mrs. Ploumen. Or are you just standing with Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u53	No, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u54	Then Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u55	From his background, I understand Mr Van Ojik's question and also Mrs Ploumen's doubt, but I actually have it on the other side. The minister says, "I want to see more of them." As far as Mrs Leijten's motion is concerned, however, to point out to the General Affairs Council in preparation for the European summit that we cannot, perhaps in a different way, as far as North Macedonia is concerned, say that this is going too far. He also says, "Doing it, doing it, going too far." Are we dealing here with a position or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u56	This is Mrs Leijten as I know her, namely: the world is black and white; it is either yes or no. That, of course, makes accession negotiations rather pointless. There is an intermediate form, in which Mr Van Ojik is not in the same position as I am, but I say that I want to use this opportunity for Macedonia to obtain an additional concession. I do not have it if I choose Mrs Leijten's black and white image, and that is why I do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u57	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u58	But if you don't get that additional concession, it's gonna be black and white, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u59	If it were, it would be black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u60	What concession does the minister have to get to say yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u61	Didn't I report it? The completion of the legislation on the independent prosecutor is very important, as well as not slipping back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u62	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u63	But precisely in these two areas, when the General Affairs Council and the European Summit are in place, he will not be given a commitment within the present and next week. In that week there is no slipping back, but people are moving on. So if the Minister's position is that he is in favour of an intermediate route, then I really want to see it. In fact, he says here, rejecting the motion I tabled: yes, we are going to follow the European Commission; those accession negotiations are being opened, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u64	Mrs Leijten is wallowing in her own black and white worldview. It is not the first time that a follow-up step has been made conditional. That is not possible in Mrs Leijten's choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u66	Mr Verhoeven asked how we are going to proceed with this. In the future, the Chamber will continue to have the fact sheets, as they are so well-known, with the government's views in good time. Mr Verhoeven, who, in his speech, is very pro-European, as I know him and advocated the immediate start of the accession negotiations, surprised me by saying: come up with a very hard black and white position. I outlined in the debate what would happen in a Union of 28 Members if each of these 28 Members committed themselves in advance to very black and white positions: then no decision can be taken unless the decision is always 'do but'. But then you won't have a negotiating situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u67	I think that the Minister, who did not dare to take the beginning of a position last week, is going a long way by pretending that I am only asking for black and white statements. I rarely ask for black and white statements. Last week, during the debate, I asked for context, a certain number of frameworks within which we should remain, for a direction in which we can think. All this would have been good, but the cabinet did not deliver any of that last week. So to pretend now that the Chamber is only asking for black and white positions, when the government simply has to state clearly which direction it is going to take, I find a really strange approach. That's not what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u68	It is not the case that Mr Verhoeven asks what direction it is going to take. Mr Verhoeven has a respectable position. He doesn't say, "Go about starting negotiations." He says, "Start negotiations." In the spectrum, "not at all" is the position of SP and PVV and "not at all" is one of that direction, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen are the black and white positions. I have indicated in the letters and in the debate that I want additional steps which differ from one country to another. This is indeed a position which can clearly benefit the Netherlands and which is an alternative to black and white positions. Again, I have every respect for black and white positions, but that is not the government's intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u69	In this case, D66 has a clear position in the spectrum and says: yes, based on what lies ahead, we believe that conversations are now allowed to start. Last week it didn't go well, not because the cabinet didn't say "black for" or "white is against," but because even the shade of grey wasn't there in any way. It was a letter without any direction. Even the shade of grey, which you can really expect from a cabinet, was missing. In the second letter it was possible. It was there. Among them, Mrs Leijten and Mrs Maeijer, who were just asking supplementary questions, found that there was a solid basis. That's what it was about, and the Minister knows that pretty well. I therefore believe that the question should be asked as to how much more we will have this kind of debate over the next few days, in which the cabinet really does not want to clarify at all. That does not work in a debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u70	Mr Verhoeven now says that the cabinet does not want to give any clarity at all. That's another black and white formulation. The letters and the debate indicated that we are assessing the countries independently and that we see much more need for progress in Albania than in Macedonia, wherever we see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u71	Then I'll go see Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u72	Of course it's a bit of a hunch to bring in the book series of Fifty shades of grey, but that's what the Minister's answers remind me of. I would like to draw your attention to the danger that the Minister would have wanted to answer my questions later. I read that new letter. Is it true that at the time when the Netherlands does not receive a commitment from the Council on the conditions which the Minister would like to see fulfilled, which also does not agree with additional conditions for, for example, North Macedonia, the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u73	If I do not find it enough in the agreements, I will, of course, check with other countries to see if we are satisfied with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u74	In my view, this was precisely a question to which you could have answered yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u75	Mrs Maeijer always asks in a complicated way if we are going to use the veto. I'm not going to report that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u76	I'm just asking what the Dutch government's commitment is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u77	No, Mrs Maeijer asks: are you the only one to say no...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u78	Minister, Mrs. Maeijer hasn't finished her sentence yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u79	The letter from Minister Blok states: "The cabinet will work to ensure that the Council commits these conditions to its response." My question, therefore, is: what is happening when the Council does not impose these conditions on that response is quite simple, and I think it is quite simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u80	I answered that. Then I will look with other countries that have the same concerns as the Netherlands to see if we should agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u82	I come to Mr Omtzigt, who indicated that he was in agreement with the government as far as northern Macedonia is concerned. With regard to Albania, Mr Mulder and Mr Drost have tabled a motion in respect of item No. Commission proposal to start negotiations on accession to the EU. I have indicated that there is a clear need for more progress in the fight against corruption in Albania than in Macedonia. We also want to see real convictions for corruption and intertwinedness of the upper and underworld. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then I'll come to Mrs. Maeijer. She's filed two motions. The motion in part No. 2020 never asks the cabinet to agree, even under conditions, to the opening of accession negotiations with Albania. Because it is possible for Albania to make the progress that we wish to see, which we do not yet see, and because I think it is also in the Dutch interest that the countries that are in Europe and bordering the European Union should be part of the free market in which we trade and can participate in cooperation in promoting the rule of law and combating crime, I find it unwise to say 'never'. That's why I advise against this motion. This also applies to Mrs Maeijer's second motion, the motion in part No. 2021. This motion asks the cabinet never to agree, even under conditions, to open accession negotiations with northern Macedonia. I have to discourage that motion for the same reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u83	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-32.u84	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. Oh, I hear several MPs say "morning." You guys are so alert! We're going to vote tomorrow afternoon.
