ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	Let us now turn to Mrs Leijten's question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. It is actually a question of unanswered written questions concerning the rejection of child care allowance because the supplement partner has day-to-day spending. Is that correct, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	You say it perfectly, Mr. Chairman. Let me explain what is happening. The childcare allowance is intended to enable the combination of work and your children. That is why we have adopted this regulation, and for that we have passed it. There are people who are alone and who are not working, but who, for example, take part in training, or who take care of the children together, with one partner taking part in training and the other working. You're gonna get a child support allowance. Also in a reintegration path towards work you will receive child care allowance, for example if one follows a reintegration path towards work and the other works, or if you are a single parent who re-integrates into work. Now there's one situation that's really weird, and that's the situation where one of the parents spends the day. The Secretary of State is well aware of this, because in a previous life we were spokesmen on this subject together. You do not get sweat feet in this country. If you're spending the day, you have a physical or psychological problem and you can't work. You need that day's spending to keep rhythm alive or to maintain certain skills. At least you can't be home looking after the kids. But in that case, the Tax Administration rejects a child care allowance application. On the one hand, the government says that you need that day-use, because an indication is not just given in this country; on the other hand, the same government says to someone who wants to work and appeal to that scheme to make working and raising the children possible: sorry, we have nothing to do with that. Those people should actually quit their jobs because their partner needs care. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that she arranges for families in which one of the partners and the other partner needs day care to be granted just childcare allowance. I asked these questions to the Secretary of State five weeks ago and I also put them in a black book this summer. I'd like to hear today that she's gonna take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for these questions, which will be answered in writing at least this week. I've seen them come by a few times and asked many more follow-up questions, to point out that I think it's a very important subject, especially because daily spending can be crucial in people's lives. You will not get this indication, I repeat, Mrs Leijten. In the Childcare Act, we have agreed that the financial compensation that people receive is aimed at stimulating work for parents who are already working or who are on a path that increases the chances of employment. That is the background to the childcare allowance. This is without prejudice to the fact that daily spending in people's lives is very valuable. Nor is it the case that there is nothing, but the funding we can organise in the form of childcare allowance applies to the people who are working or going to work. People who otherwise need support for childcare payments can turn to the municipality. They can apply for a socio-medical indication. That's how we organized it. This also has to do with the large differences that exist between people who are being spent on the day. This is a subject that has also been addressed in a different way in recent times, because questions had been asked by the CDA group about people with an Wlz indication. For them, we have indeed made it possible for them to have childcare allowances. Then you'd say, "Why not Wlz and spend the day?" This has to do with the diversity of the group and the backgrounds of people in daily use. If you have a Wlz indication, we can assign it more easily. We also do this from national organisations. So we're gonna take that step. And when it comes to the people in daily spending, which is treated by the municipalities, we join the socio-medical indication. I think it is important that people receive the support they need, including in the area of childcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'd like to tell the Secretary of State you're almost there. If you see the indication for the national day care or the stay elsewhere as a reason to provide childcare allowance, do so for those municipal indications. Because that social-medical indication through the municipality is not only different in every municipality, but also assumes a temporary situation. This is a temporary situation where you are not eligible for child care allowance. And what is this about? This is a definitive rejection of the childcare allowance. The mother we're talking about here has to give up her job, sit at home because her husband needs a day job. This not only deprives her of the work, but also deprives them of their income. It is unfair, because the childcare allowance is precisely a scheme to combine the work and the having of children. And why not in this situation? You're almost there. You've arranged it for the people who need care through the national scheme. Do the same for people who need it via a municipal indication, because there too they don't get it just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	Unfortunately, I do not think it is appropriate to deal with individual situations, but I would like to tell Mrs Leijten that together with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, I will deal with the black book presented by the SP. That is what we have been asked to do, and of course I do. So we will respond to that. I can imagine a great deal about the difficulties that people can experience in their own lives. That is why I think it is important that we show here that this possibility is indeed there. We have agreed that a number of issues can be better dealt with by the municipalities, because they know people well and therefore can also apply the rules better. This is one of them. That's how we agreed. This also means that people who do not agree with a decision can take action against it. But it is a hugely diverse group, in which everyone struggles with independent problems. Looking at the childcare allowance, we have said of this scheme: it is really about combining work or the journey to work with the care of children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	And that is exactly what is happening here. This mother works. And do you know what her bad luck is? That she has a husband who spends the day. If she didn't have a husband or had a husband who worked, she was entitled to child care allowance. But because this husband needs daily spending and can't stop doing so, she has to give up her work. That's government breach, isn't it? You can't keep that up, can you? It does exactly what the Childcare Allowance Act aims to do: to work and to combine children. Give these people child care allowance too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	It is also sometimes difficult to see which arrangement is best suited to. For those who make use of the Long-Term Care Act, that is a group that has to do with the same type of problems and it is something that is regulated by the government. Indeed, we can say: we are broadening the possibility of applying for child care. By the way, that's money that's been added. For example, that did not go away from the SMIs. But the background of people who need day care is really very diverse. I also think it is important for municipalities to be able to apply customisation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	But it's not a medical indication. This mother's just got a job. It is said by the Tax Administration that day care does not exist, that the father should look after his children at home or that the mother should divorce her husband, because then she will be eligible for child care allowance. Isn't that unjust and unreliable? Then you have an arrangement to make something possible, which makes working the right way impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	One last call: settle this!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yes. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	Then I should repeat what I have just said, namely that there are opportunities for tailor-made work to combine these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. It was a clear statement by Mrs Leijten, and I shall continue to do so. 'Cause this dad can't work. It doesn't matter what reason he's in day care. Any reason to be in day care is enough to not be able to take care of the children at home. So that objective ground is there. The Act states in Article 6 (1) (k) that the Minister or State Secretary may, by general measure of administration, designate categories of persons with physical, sensory, intellectual or psychological impairment who are eligible. You can ask the city, but it's a favor. If the city refuses, you're gone. Childcare is a right, and we give that right to people who work, to people who study, to people who take an integration course or to people who are in the WAZ. So are you prepared to make an exception under Article 6 of the Childcare Act for this group of people who are not at home and cannot, by definition, take care of the children, by ensuring that the other parent who works is entitled to child care allowance so that they do not have to apply for divorce?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Let me say first of all that I am aware of the difficult situation in which people can find themselves when they need daily spending and when they combine it with other aspects of life, such as raising children and working. That's the lead. It is my job to ensure that there is access to childcare. We have all chosen to do so, and I support the choice that the childcare allowance is related to work. If people needed childcare allowance but did not work, we would have organised it in a different way. So I'd like to discuss whether it's the right way, but it's not like there's nothing right now. I support the layout we have now. I do think it is important that municipalities really look into the situation of people and not just at the person they have in front of them, but at the whole family, at what is happening in the short term and at what is happening in the long term. There, customization can be applied. That can also be better with the municipalities than with the government. I believe that we have sufficient access to childcare at the moment, including for people who are not dependent on childcare allowances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	Then I go to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We often talk about malicious stimuli in this house, about forcing people into the wrong direction in using the system. But here it is the government that uses the rogue incentive to force people not to go to work by refusing the childcare allowance. That's the reverse world, isn't it? You have a law to enforce that will get people to work. You said the same thing yourself. And what you're doing is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	You're talking about the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	...don't implement the law. Do you not see the possibility of taking a decision in line with what Mr Omtzigt is saying which makes it possible for those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you for this question, because I think it is particularly important that we create the opportunity for people to use childcare. We do that in different ways. When people work or are on their way to work, we do so with child care allowance. If that is not possible, because people do not work, we can organise it in a different way, and we do so through the socio-medical indication. So I wouldn't want to create the picture here that there is no access for groups. I would like to emphasise here that the childcare allowance is intended for work, but this does not prevent people from receiving support in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
