ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	I give the floor to Mr Laçin for his question on the statements of the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management on the growth of Schiphol after 2020. The Minister will be replaced by the Secretary of State, whom I would also like to welcome. Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	"I'm going to restore confidence in the Ministry." With these words, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State Cora van Nieuwenhuizen joined in 2017. If I look back now to the last year and a half, I can only draw one conclusion, namely that this has not yet been achieved. On the contrary, the confidence that was there has been further damage and has reached a low point. There has been a conflict of interest in the committee to assess environmental impact assessments, major errors of the Ministry in the Lelystad Airport documents, and a record number of complaints from residents of Schiphol and regional airports. That's where we stand now. Yesterday she put a shovel on top of that. Schiphol must continue to grow after 2020, even though the conversation with the local residents and the interest groups is still ongoing and the Chamber has yet to hold a debate on this issue. It stated that Lelystad Airport will open, expand and grow independently, although a majority of the Chamber has spoken out against independent growth, and the opening of that airport in the Netherlands will cost more jobs than it will cost. Mr. Chairman. It was not the minister of all the Dutch who uttered these words; it was a VVD man in campaign time who spoke the story of the aviation lobby. Those aren't just my words. The group chairman of D66, a party member of this secretary of state, also mentioned a "VVD member in campaign time." I have one question for this Secretary of State: will she, when she walks out of here, call on the Minister, whistle back and call on him to continue the conversation with residents of Schiphol and Lelystad Airport and to take those people and their criticism seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That one question is easy to answer, because I have already spoken to the Minister. She has assured me that she is implementing the coalition agreement and that she will follow all the careful steps necessary for this. The coalition agreement states that Schiphol may develop further, but that in order to make this growth possible, solutions must be found for a number of important issues such as safety as a peripheral condition, environment and nuisance to the immediate environment. The next period will be used to study the report of the ORS' discussions within the ORS. The Minister, of course, also talks with all kinds of parties. She will go through a whole process with all due care, including with the Chamber, both as regards Schiphol Airport and as regards Lelystad Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	I hear the Secretary of State referring to the coalition agreement, but we all know by now that agreements in the coalition agreement are as soft as butter as VVDs start to shout out in the media. We have seen this in the agreements on the abolition of the dividend tax, in the agreements on paying below the minimum wage for disabled workers, and in the agreement not to make any changes to the children's pardon. All these agreements have been changed for the better. Now let's see if we can get this file in the right direction. I hear the Secretary of State say that it must all be so careful, but it is not careful to call things out in the media, while the conversation is still going on here in the Chamber and with the residents and stakeholders. How can we call that carefully, I ask the Secretary of State. I want to know from her what the debate here in the Chamber is worth if the Minister has already decided in advance that Schiphol should grow and that Lelystad Airport should open up and there should also be independent growth. So what are the debates that we are having in this Chamber worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think that Mr Laçin is right to welcome the careful agreements made in the coalition agreement on this point. It says the Cabinet is making a new Aviation Note. A whole process has also been agreed with your Chamber for a number of discussions that you have left, including with the Minister. This is about general discussions on aviation safety, sustainable aviation and aviation. In addition, the Minister made a number of clear commitments, for example in the area of security. The Minister is not ahead of anything and has merely indicated that it is her ambition to implement the government agreement. It will, of course, have to do so in very careful consultation with all parties, both inside and outside this Chamber. That is absolutely what the Minister intends to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	On the contrary, care must be taken to ensure that we have the debate here first, that we listen to local residents, that we listen to interest groups and to environmental organisations, and that, on that basis, we consider what is good for the whole of the Netherlands and not just for the aviation lobby and making statements in campaign time. I've heard enough of this Secretary of State. I will be asking for the Minister to be brought here before the elections in the course of the work. Calling a campaign in the media is very easy, but the minister has to answer here to the Chamber and anyone who has interests in this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Laçin knows very well that a request has been made to the parties directly involved in the Schiphol Environment Council to give an opinion. In the meantime, the President announced that they would not come forward with a joint opinion. The Minister therefore conducts several discussions with the parties. In addition, the Minister is in consultation with Schiphol to complete the EIA in a good way. After all these steps have been completed, the Minister will inform the Chamber and will then come to a cabinet decision setting out growth and conditions. We're really still in a whole process. The Minister intends to do this carefully and, of course, to include the Chamber explicitly in all these steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	One sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	One sentence. It is precisely this list of the Secretary of State that shows all the more that the Minister's statements are premature. The Minister has taken the flight forward. I also ask her to come to this Chamber to enter the debate with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	It is incomprehensible and it really is a shame for residents to talk about a careful process, while so much has already gone wrong in the participation around Lelystad Airport and the conversations with the neighbors of Schiphol have collapsed because Schiphol refuses to listen to residents and only wants to make extra noise through additional flight movements. I should like to hear from this Secretary of State how she validates the statements made by the Minister in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	I leave a number of qualifications to Mrs Kröger. All I see is what the process is going through. In the first instance, the parties directly concerned within the Schiphol Environment Council tried to reach an opinion together. That didn't work. Then the Minister says: I am going to have several discussions with the parties concerned at the moment. That seems to me to be the best thing she can do at the time. Furthermore, the Minister actually says: I have the ambition to implement the government agreement with all the pluses and minuses, depending on which side of the Chamber you are on. They are not just about growth, but they are also very much about conditions for growth. The Minister conducts these talks with the parties in the area. She's doing those interviews extensively with your room. There is a whole list of general discussions and a further plenary debate is planned. It seems to me that it is important to complete that process carefully. The Minister intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	Second question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Today there is a Secretary of State who fortunately knows a lot about the real solution, namely the international train. Does this Secretary of State not agree with GroenLinks that we should simply make full use of international trains within Europe as a replacement for flights, because then the entire growth of Schiphol Airport or the opening up of Lelystad Airport is not necessary at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Well, another subject!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Kröger and I know very well that we share a passion for the international train and work hard on it. To say that with this all the problems for Schiphol and Lelystad immediately disappear behind the horizon, perhaps goes a little too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	It's about Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	But we share that we think the international train is very important. We are working hard together to realize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	The Minister's statements seem to be very firm and almost a disgrace to this Chamber. Are we going to have a genuine debate in this Chamber? 50PLUS hopes that the quick scan of Schiphol in the sea that has just been sent to the Chamber will have a real chance. Looks like it's already been served. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State to what extent the Minister really gives the quickscan a serious chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	The Minister wants to have a real debate with the Chamber on the basis of the agreements made in the government agreement and the impact it has given it. The Chamber has also asked for that quick scan, so you will of course simply come and talk to the Minister about it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have a question for the Secretary of State. In the public debate, doesn't the Minister actually commit mortal sin by talking about growth scenarios alone, when it is not yet clear whether there can be growth? In fact, within the limits of climate, quality of life and safety, we may have to reduce aviation, so that Schiphol does not grow at all and Lelystad stays closed. In the public debate, the Minister is preparing for growth. That may be a campaign, but it has been said. Isn't that a political mortal sin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	The hold I have here is what's in the coalition agreement about it. It says that there are a lot of conditions, but there is also some room for manoeuvre if these conditions are met. I hear the Minister now saying: I intend to make it possible under these conditions. In doing so, the Minister is working to make the agreements contained in the government agreement possible. That will not be easy, because very strict conditions have been set. It's gonna be quite a puzzle to put that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	See here the execution of a perfect Hague riot. The minister throws a stone in the pond via the Volkskrant on Monday morning. The opposition asks: what's going on? We have a little Question Time and that question is getting through. Now the Secretary of State says "ho, no, slow down" and reads the coalition agreement, and then the coalition, which does rule through the media, eventually stays in place. This is the typical The Hague riot. I see Mr Paternotte feels invited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	So the question is: shall we step over this Hague riot? 'Cause we've got way too many of those. People are affected by that. The aviation sector is affected by this. I ask the Secretary of State to have the conversation with the local residents again, because if we need anything, the basis for air transport in the Netherlands will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	I am very pleased with this question, because I do think that conversation is extremely important. A situation has arisen in which the Schiphol Environment Council has not been able to reach a unanimous opinion. That means there really is a need for further discussions. The Minister also intends to do so, to have talks with all the parties involved and with the Chamber. That seems to me to be the only way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66. Don't respond to Mr Gijs van Dijk, because he's already gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	I won't, Mr. Chairman. I fell off my chair when I read that interview yesterday morning. This was mainly due to the fact that the word "security" did not occur at all in the interview. We've had three near collisions in the air at Schiphol Airport last year. We have had two debates on this as a Chamber. One second and a half or a Boeing 737 came into collision with another aircraft in the air at a start. That is why the Safety Research Council has also said: growth can only be discussed once the safety risks around Schiphol have been addressed. Last year, the Minister promised that all the recommendations of the Security Research Council will be evaluated and discussed with the Chamber before we can take a step towards growth. My question is: is the cabinet still in favour of this commitment, and are you also prepared to send a letter to the Chamber on how this evaluation is going to work before the Air Safety Agency in April?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	As far as timing is concerned, I will at least pass on the wish, but I think it is very clear. Safety is a prerequisite. The commitment made, namely that the Court will receive an evaluation of the implementation of the OVV's recommendations before the number of flight movements at Schiphol Airport can be increased. I will send a letter to the Minister before the requested date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you.
