ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u1	We will continue with the next debate in one smooth motion. This concerns the amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code, the Youth Act and some other laws to improve patient-oriented care and the inclusion of a statutory provision for access to the medical records of a deceased patient, Room 34994. We have eight speakers from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u2	The first speaker is Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing a bill that clarifies and strengthens the patient's position. The CDA strongly supports these objectives and sees good steps to strengthen the patient's position in the proposed amendments to the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answers we have given in writing. One of the issues the CDA was particularly concerned about was the non-recording of the supposed consent for relatives to access a patient's file after his death. The Minister follows the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. The legislative proposal therefore provides that access to the file is only possible in case of an incident or serious interest. The CDA considers that the Minister has sufficiently explained why the alleged consent as a basis for access to the file is no longer included in the law, but still has some questions. The Minister states that the patient can, of course, specify in his medical record who can access his file or parts of it. How is it ensured that patients and relatives are aware of this possibility? Two. Oral consent to access to the file is no longer possible as a result of this legislative proposal. This also applies: how is this well communicated to patients and their relatives? Who's gonna make this talkable when? Three. Can the Minister comment on the arguments put forward by the KNMG, which believe that non-inclusion of the supposed consent will lead to further legalisation? From the Minister's answer to our questions, it is unclear whether he assumes that there will be no further legalisation at all or that he believes that the proposed regulation will produce as little legalisation of practice as possible, within the limits of that opinion of the Personal Data Authority, which therefore considers the basis of the supposed consent undesirable. Can the Minister answer that? Four. Speaking of jurisdiction, the Minister states that if they do not have access to the file, they can file a complaint, go to the Disputes Commission or open civil proceedings. The Patient Federation rightly states that these procedures can be cumbersome and time-consuming and can easily last at least six months. Is it not possible to call on an independent third party far before that time for a timely assessment of whether access to the file should be provided? Five. Finally, as regards the inspection regime, can the Minister guarantee that the independent right of inspection of the mentor of a multi-year-old will-incompetent patient is maintained by the adoption of this bill? Mr. Chairman. Decision-making together is a positive starting point, which the CDA fully supports. The starting point is that, as far as possible, doctor and patient jointly decide on the treatment with this bill formally gets a place in the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. Doctors often work on the basis of this principle, but it is good that this is included in the law as far as the CDA is concerned. I do have some questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u4	But first there is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u5	Yeah, it's about that first point. Several healthcare organisations, as well as client and patient organisations, indicate that this law may make access to the file much more difficult. Mrs van den Berg says that herself: the supposed consent expires. How does it assess the criticism that the measures proposed by the Minister make it much more difficult to obtain access to the medical file after death?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u6	We thought the Minister's answers to our questions were clear, but we have two concerns about this. Firstly, how are patients and their loved ones informed about the new arrangements, so that they are informed in good time? Secondly, when one says at some point "you have to go to court," is there no other way to do that? We would like to hear what the Minister thinks of the comments of the Patient Federation on this matter. But that he is going to replace that supposed consent with the other two, i.e. "incident" or "heavy interest," we found clearly explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u7	My problem is that, of course, the important thing the Minister is talking about is as much possibilities and interpretable as the supposed consent. So the discussion that was first about the supposed consent is going to move to "what is a major issue?" In Mrs Van den Berg's view, does mourning after a sudden death be of major importance? And who is it to judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u8	Those are legitimate, but difficult questions. Another example is that of a medical error. Then there will be little discussion about anyone having a major interest. However, as Mr Hijink points out, it is also possible that someone died very suddenly and that a loved one says: I really want to know more about that. That is what is happening now, and that is what has been achieved. We are assuming that the new situation will lead to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u9	Rounding off for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u10	Now they're coming out, because you can still rely on that supposed consent. If that is not possible anymore, then the person who wants access must indicate what is of major importance. In this important interest, you quickly go in the direction of the suspicion of a mistake, the suspicion of an incident, a reproach to the doctor, while inspection may also be necessary and very desirable as part of a good conversation. In the event of sudden death, in mourning, such a conversation can look back on what happened to the deceased. Then you want to avoid that very painful discussion about whether there has been any culpable action. That door's all locked up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u11	We are looking forward to the Minister's response to our question as a result of that legal process. If, in the situation outlined by Mr Hijink, one only has access through an extremely long legal procedure, then that is not desirable. I would therefore like to await the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u12	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u13	Mr. Chairman. We fully support the right starting point to decide together, but the proposed provisions on joint decision-making become part of the private law rules contained in the Civil Code. The Health and Youth Inspectorate therefore does not supervise these provisions. Any disputes relating to this can therefore only be brought before the civil courts. How does the Minister ensure that the patient is aware of this? Can patients with such complaints also contact the Dutch National Health Service? Or are they only referred to the possibility of going to court? The Minister states that the patient's information position is being improved, but is it only on paper or will it be in practice? How is the patient informed that he or she knows how to use this better information position? Mr. Chairman. It has already been nearly ten years since it was promised that the Medical Treatment Agreement Act will be extended to long-term care. With the repeal of the Client Rights Care Act, this intention has been considerably delayed, yet this is again not regulated in the current legislative proposal. And that while several field parties, such as ActiZ, the association of hospital authorities, and client organisations indicate that they need this much. Like these organisations, the CDA does not understand why this change is not immediately included in the legislative proposal. Can the Minister explain why he does not wish to submit the extension of the scope of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act until after the adoption of this bill? To which forms of care will the scope of the WGBO be expanded in the near future, only to long-term care or also to social support and youth care? Can the Minister promise that by September of this year at the latest, the promised legislative amendment will be sent to the Chamber for the improvement of the scope? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a final question on this bill. This bill also provides for the medical record to be destroyed after 20 years. In that case, will the patient receive a message that the file will be destroyed? In that case, will he or she be given the opportunity to request a copy of the file? Can the Minister explain why the retention period of files within the WMO is 15 years? The Minister states that there are no urgent reasons for extending the retention period for municipalities, the CAK, the Social Insurance Bank and social support providers. Why are these urgent reasons not within the Wmo and within medical care? The MedMij programme will give effect in the near future to the right to a digital copy of all personal health data. The Minister states that MedMij is not a database, but only lays down the rules of the game. To what extent can a patient itself, using the personal health environment, keep a file longer than the legal deadlines? Mr. Chairman. The aim of the present legislative proposal is to clarify and strengthen the patient's position. The CDA wholeheartedly supports this objective and will therefore support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u14	Thank you. Mr Edgar Mulder from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u15	"Not all wounds heal by themselves. The wound caused by a hidden medical error is one of those." These words spoke my predecessor Reinette Klever during the treatment of the Quality Act, complaints and disputes in healthcare, the Wkkgz, in 2013. Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group then tabled the amendment to regulate the right of access to the medical records of a deceased person. Back then, Minister Schippers agreed with the spirit of that amendment, but she wanted to regulate it in the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, the WGBO; yes, the legislative amendment that is now before us. It's been six years. It's been six years of waiting, and now it's finally time. Too bad it took so long, but it's good that it's settled now. Mr. Chairman. Every day, two to three patients die as a result of a medical error. We know this because the NIVEL is investigating those deaths. This is quite a job, but it is necessary: over 1,000 deaths a year, while only about 300 are reported at the inspection. Two thirds shall not be reported or recognised. Mr. Chairman. Six years ago, the Consumers' Association brought together some of those stories under the title "Doctor Listen Now!', But that doctor still doesn't listen enough. That's why it's extremely important that medical misses come out. Important for the next of kin for processing, but also for the sector to learn from mistakes. The medical record plays a crucial role in this. Mr. Chairman. In accordance with our proposal from 2013, access to the medical record is not granted. After all, medical professional secrecy extends to the grave and survivors and deceased persons may have had different interests. The next of kin must therefore have a so-called serious interest. The suspicion of a medical error falls under that heading of major importance. So far we are satisfied. However, the final weighing of whether there is a significant interest lies, according to this bill, with the healthcare provider. My group has a problem with that. The role of the healthcare provider is not entirely independent, especially when it comes to suspecting a medical error. If, in the opinion of the caregiver, there is no significant interest at this time, then the next of kin remains nothing but a difficult legal and therefore time-consuming process to the courts. And then we're back to square one. We therefore propose that, in the event that the healthcare professional refuses access to the medical record, the next of kin have the right to appoint an independent medical adviser himself. This medical adviser will then have access to relevant parts of the medical file in order to arrive at an objective assessment. In this way, the next of kin still gets an independent assessment of the cause of death, while at the same time keeping the breach of medical confidentiality and privacy of the deceased as limited as possible. We are curious to see how the Minister views our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u16	Thank you. I call Mr Kerstens of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u17	Mr. Chairman. In health care, the patient is central. At least he or she should be at the heart of that. After all, it's about his or her health, and your health is your highest. The fact that the patient is central, that his or her wishes are central, is therefore obvious, you would say. But what is self-evident is not self-evident, not even in health care. Today we are discussing a bill that aims to improve, clarify and strengthen the patient's position. That is good news, because that position needs to be improved, and it can be improved. For example, as is currently proposed, by giving more information to the aid worker, for example the treating doctor, more body, more content. This is necessary to help the patient make a good decision for him or her about whether to treat or not, about the type of treatment or, where appropriate, about the treatment. The main rule is that the patient must give consent to a treatment or can withhold that consent. That rule should also be the main rule. It is the patient's will that must be central, that must be central. The information obligation I just mentioned should allow for a conversation between the aid worker and the patient. That must be a good conversation, in which consultation takes place and after which a well-considered decision can be made by the patient. This consultation requires continuous interaction between the interlocutors, between the aid worker and the patient, and a step-by-step assessment can be made by the patient. It is striking that the proposal goes a long way in prescribing what makes such a conversation a good conversation. That goes from the time when it must take place to the discussion of the consequences and risks of treatment, from the time when intervention takes place and its duration to the possibility of non-treatment, and from informing a patient of the personal situation and need to invite him or her to ask questions. I think that is because the Minister also recognizes that such a self-evident consultation does not take place for granted, and that the important elements are not taken into account. And I think the Minister can see that very well. But it does bring me to the next question. He's putting it all on paper now, but what else is he doing to make the beautiful paper reality created in that way, the real reality, also become the practice? Does he arrange, for example, that attention is paid to this during training, studies and internships? Does he arrange that aid workers in practice, in their practice, also have room and time for that? Does he arrange for proper and sufficient consideration to be given to the fact that not all patients are equally mature? Does he arrange that this bill not only states that, for example, culture-specific matters should be taken into account in patients with a non-Dutch background, but that they should actually be taken into account, and how? That's what I'm asking the Minister. As detailed and detailed as the bill is about when, how and what that discussion is to take place, it is so vague about the things I just mentioned, and that is not a good thing. For a few fine phrases in a legislative text, accompanied by equally beautiful phrases in a explanatory statement or here in the debate, that is not going to be him. Mr. Chairman. This bill also introduces a new regulation of the right of access of survivors to the medical records of a deceased patient. This right of access is also a great asset and can, should and should be better, because there are sometimes questions after the death of a patient. Sometimes there are even many questions, about the treatment and about possible mistakes. Only: what is now being proposed does not make it better. It doesn't improve that right of access, but it makes it a lot more complicated. In any case, this says a broad coalition of aid workers and client and patient organisations. You can't really get it wider, and you can't get a broader coalition as a minister against you. The question to the Minister is therefore what problem he has tried to solve and, as a result, what he says about the criticism that his solution creates new problems for the patient before his death, for next of kin and for aid workers. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Why didn't the Minister simply choose, as advocated by the left and right, to put the now more and more crystallized practice on paper by means of court rulings and to include it in his legislative proposal? Is he willing to do that after all? Or does he choose to create perhaps a whole new circus of judgments? Could he explain that his critics actually see it wrong? That is what he is suggesting in the documents we have received for today: the case law would not be as unambiguous as it is suggested and his proposals would clarify and extend the right of access, contrary to what is said. Would he also like to comment specifically on what in practice has become called "suspicious consent"? This way of looking seems to work well in practice and removes a lot of pressure from patients, their next of kin and aid workers. Finally, Mr President. What does the Minister think of the alternative proposal that his critics have done in this area: aid workers, industry organisations, patient and client organisations? That is to give the legal representative of the patient right of inspection after his death and to give the right of inspection, if there was no legal representative during the patient's life, to those who were authorised to make decisions on behalf of the patient. Simple in all its simplicity, you'd say. This also applies to the suggestion that the sometimes difficult decision to establish a major interest in obtaining access should not be placed with the aid provider but with a third party, such as the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u18	Thank you. Mr Raemakers from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u19	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The proposal we are discussing today has a number of fundamental dilemmas. In a world where information sharing is becoming easier but also our awareness of the importance of privacy is growing, it is very important to make clear, legal agreements on how we deal with medical data, both in life and after death. Mr. Chairman. The first part of the bill is not so much about data sharing but about information transfer. In the past, the doctor was the one who decided and informed the patient about it. Now we are right to think it is important that the care provider and the patient decide together on the desired treatment and route. I do have a few more questions about that. In the law it now looks very nice: the aid worker clearly informs the patient that fits his comprehension capacity. Now that is actually what is asked daily from an aid worker. But is the Minister convinced that an aid worker is always able to assess what is appropriate to the comprehension of a patient? How's it going with young people and lack of will? Do emergency workers receive training in this during their training? Is there going to be a campaign for patients in this House, precisely because there is not everyone in the Chamber to speak up for? Now the law also explicitly states that patients can return to prior consent, because this cannot always be taken for granted. But is inclusion in the law enough? Studies in patients with cancer have shown that it is always important to go through the decision-making process together with the patient, as more patients want to make a decision at the end than before the conversation. Is this also wider than just cancer? What does this mean for dealing with patients who indicate that they do not want to decide and do not want to receive information? Finally, on this point. The law also explicitly states that the possibility of non-treatment should also be discussed with the patient. Is this always the case and how is the Minister going to guarantee this? Mr. Chairman. The second part of the law deals with retention periods of files. The law proposes a minimum period for storage. But why opt for a minimum period of 20 years instead of 30 years at the moment? Is that mostly a cost-benefit assessment? Knowing that everyone is getting older: how long does the Minister think it will take us to get back here to extend the deadline? Then a question about keeping the data after the patient's death. The minimum period of 20 years still applies, but what is the justification for that? The argument that these data may be useful for the further treatment of the patient is, of course, no longer valid. Then 20 years is a very long time. So why is 20 years chosen in this situation? Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u20	On this point, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u21	The SP has just tabled an amendment to extend the retention period to 30 years, partly for the reason that even if you are 40 or 45 years old, it can be very important to have access to medical data from your own childhood or from your mother's youth, for example in the case of child abuse or in the case of child care. Whatever happened, it may be extremely important for the processing of traumas to have an insight into the medical record, yourself or anyone else's for years after that. Does Mr Raemakers agree with the SP that it would make a lot of sense to extend that period, especially now that more and more is digital?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u22	This is a very difficult dilemma. That is why I am asking questions about it, together with Mr Hijink. If you take a person of 45 or 50 years old and a term of 30 years, you go back to 15 or 20 years old at some point. Even then, you can miss certain information. The moment of measurement also changes with this law. The Minister states that this is a reason for him to say: twenty years in combination with that time is enough. But with Mr Hijink I share the question: why not 30 years? I do have some feelings for this point and I would like a more detailed response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u23	In maternity care, the last change in your file will end before your first birthday. In the case of youth care, I think the age of 18 is the last moment. Then you already go to 38 or 48 depending on which time limit you choose. The Health Council says 30 years is actually the minimum and maybe you need to go a lot further. And maybe that's also possible if there are so many digital possibilities to keep files. So I wonder why a 20-year period is chosen if a longer period is so obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u24	That is a fair question, and that is also the dilemma we are struggling with. But at the same time you could also say: why not 40 or 50 years? The downside is that you also don't want information stored somewhere for a very long time while people probably never use it again. You don't want to. So I think it's a very difficult dilemma. 20 years is arbitrary, but 30 years is also arbitrary. I agree with Mr Hijink that the costs should at least not be considered. I read somewhere in the written input that the government replied. I don't think that's a good argument. I really want a substantive argument from the Minister today. Why was it specifically chosen for 20 years, possibly in combination with these other measures? Why does that satisfy you? I am struggling with exactly the same question as Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u25	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u26	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third part of the law: the right of family members to have access to the medical records of a deceased patient. Of course, that is also a huge dilemma. I understand that the proposal before us puts the patient's consent to sharing the data at the heart of the matter. I get that. However, I can also imagine that aid workers would encounter difficulties in their development, because at the moment a lot of work is being done on the basis of supposed consent. I get the impression that this works pretty well in itself. The lack of case law seems to me to be a sign that there is little fuss about it. But okay, in a changing world, in which we become more aware of our own data and of how we want to deal with that data, it is not crazy to centrally regulate consent, so as to make it more legal. But can the Minister give a little more figures on how often data are provided on the basis of supposed consent? How many people are about to be confronted with the fact that they are unable to see the file, including relatives, when they were previously fully and openly involved in the treatment? The next of kin would then be able to get that information on the basis of the old method and possibly not anymore. How will the explicit consent for access to the file relate to the question of the doctor's supposed consent in explaining matters such as the cause of death and the circumstances of death to survivors? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of how we could promote written consent. How can we promote that the topic of consent will be dealt with as standard in conversations with patients? Is this going to be standard part of the treatment? I think it is very important to inform patients who are in a long-term care process in life about what happens to their records when they die. That's a difficult conversation, but I think it needs to be done more. It is precisely now that we are proposing this legislative proposal to release this supposed consent, and we have the starting point that we want to make it clearer to people that they prefer to give their own consent, that we should do everything we can to promote that conversation in life. How can the Minister prepare aid workers, doctors but also nurses for this? I think this is an important issue, and I am considering tabling a motion on it. Mr. Chairman. What happens if a patient is not willing and therefore unable to give written consent? Would the Minister respond to the example of the KNMG of a mentor of a multi-year-old will-incompetent patient? Mr. Chairman. Two more topics. First, the right to inspect an incident. I have to say it very precisely: the right of access to an incident. Looking at the Youth Act and the system of youth aid in the Netherlands There is also this law about... there is a non-binding regime for reporting any incident. Is this true? How does justice work? Does the Minister agree with me that it is precisely then that the need to reconstruct the final moments of death can arise? Should the relatives of people in the youth aid always first show the importance? Does it have to be in the Youth Act, as in other parts of this bill? Then the point of the suicide and the 17- and 18-year-olds. This bill applies to 17- and 18-year-olds a slightly different regime than to 12- to 16-year-olds. Is it true that suicide is not always considered an incident in the Youth Act? How are the 17- and 18-year-olds doing? Is there sufficient possibility for relatives of 17- and 18-year-olds to finally get that information? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my last subject, the criterion of "heavy." Many of the organisations on the relief workers' side indicate that aid workers are actually not equipped to determine when there is a major interest. It is precisely because of the sudden need to look at the importance of a third party and not at the importance of the patient who knows the aid worker well that this can be very difficult for the aid worker. I imagine it's really more difficult for the aid worker than that land "suscepted consent." For example, is there always a next of kin with a major interest when it comes to suspecting a medical error? How's that? And how does the Minister view the proposal of ActiZ and other interest groups to resolve it in a different way? To give either the legal representative or the person who is authorised on the basis of the WGBO to make decisions on behalf of the patient the right to inspect? And if the Minister does take the importance of privacy more seriously, whatever I can imagine, how does the Minister intend to ensure that aid workers are equipped to assess the major importance? Are there other examples in the care that can be looked at? Mr. Chairman. All in all, it is a good thing that we are standing here to talk about a very difficult dilemma. My group considers privacy and freedom of choice very important, including for the patient who dies. But a workable legal practice for doctors and relatives is equally important to us. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's reply to our questions and we will make our final assessment on that basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u27	Thank you. Mr Arno Rutte from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u28	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself today to a brief contribution. The VVD can agree to the bill before us today. I am particularly pleased that for the first time now it is being laid down by law that joint decision-making is a fundamental part of the medical treatment agreement. Together, deciding is finally over the world of pilots. Any medical treatment or withdrawal of such treatment shall be decided jointly by the physician and the patient as relevant. As far as the VVD is concerned, that decision is always focused on the quality of the patient's life. The legal definition of joint decision-making may be an end in terms of legislation, but it certainly will not be in practice. Despite many good intentions and even a whole Year of Transparency in 2015, it is still very complicated for many patients to make well-founded decisions about treatment. I would like to hear from the Minister how he continues to make concrete work on getting a better understanding of the quality of care and the outcome of treatment. I would also like to hear how it is ensured that this information about these outcomes and the quality is not only available somewhere, but is also available to the patient. The latter is often not yet the case. If that information is already there, the patient can find it very difficult. Mr. Chairman. So much for the part to decide together. I also have two enlightening questions about the part of the law that regulates access rights in the medical records of the deceased. Many colleagues have already asked questions about this. It states, among other things, that anyone with a major interest could have access to the medical file under strict conditions. This significant importance is not really explained in detail, although some examples of the current case law are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. I would like to present two very different, very specific examples with the following question. Can these examples, of course depending on the specific circumstances of the case, be of major importance? I am not saying that it is always the case under the present law? The first example is a family member who would like to have access to the medical records of a deceased person in the context of assessing whether or not there could be a hereditary condition. Example two is not about a immediate next of kin but about a funeral director, who, for reasons of the safety of his staff, wants to verify whether the deceased has been subjected to a dangerous infectious condition or whether the deceased has been treated with high doses of radioactive radiation or medicinal products. This is also common in practice. The Ministry of Social Affairs refers to the Ministry of Social Affairs. VWS, if we're not careful, refers back to the Department of Social Affairs. This is perhaps an issue that lies ahead. If that cannot be cleared up under this law, then please do so in a different way. Mr. Chairman. Both cases are indeed very different and have to do with other stakeholders and with other interests. But they are both aware that the final interpretation will largely take place in case law. This is relevant in order to gain a clearer view of the "heavy importance" standard which is still somewhat open today. Everything we exchange here today is also part of the history of law. Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u29	Thank you. It's appreciated. Then Mr Renkema of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are mainly talking about the position of patients. It concerns the obligation to provide information and the retention period for medical records, but also the right of access to that medical record after the death of a patient. The nature of the relationship between a doctor, an aid worker, a health care professional on the one hand and the patient on the other hand has changed considerably over the past decades. It is therefore a good thing that we are no longer merely talking about a duty of information on the one hand, namely that of the aid worker or doctor, and an obligation of consent on the other hand, namely that of the patient. Today, rightly, a relationship model is being used. The bill therefore speaks about joint decision-making. At the same time, I do not think we should always conclude that this relationship is a truly horizontal one. The differences are too great for that. The aid worker is a professional and has specific knowledge and also power. The patient depends on the care provider and cannot always oversee or influence his/her own situation. The French philosopher Foucault said that power affects the language of each relationship. When we find that, the ideal image of deciding together also does a strong normative apple to both parties, the patient and the aid worker. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks welcomes most of the amendments proposed. We are pleased that the legislative proposal states that the possibility of non-treatment should be explicitly discussed. After all, not every medical treatment, not every medicine and not every intervention make sense or add something to quality of life. The change in the law seeks a balance between the position and duties of carers and the position and rights of patients, but also of their relatives. Then there is the question of privacy, a very important point for us. After all, certain information that someone possesses, he or she does not want to share with the entire outside world. It is therefore important that, when you visit a doctor in the Netherlands, that doctor should observe medical confidentiality. This professional secrecy also applies after the death of a patient. However, there are cases where other interests take precedence over privacy and also over medical professional secrecy. For the time being, this has been regulated by existing case law. In any case, with the legal amendments now being proposed, there will be more clarity about this right of access to medical records of deceased persons. However, we do have a number of reservations about these amendments. It is proposed to allow others to access medical records of a deceased patient on the basis of major interests, among other things. However, it is the aid provider who has to determine in this case whether that interest is significant enough to give that access. We believe that there is still too much room for an interpretation of this importance. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to have a code or hand-out made or made which can be checked by aid workers when there really is such an important interest. When can an aid worker actually refuse access? I am thinking in particular of a situation with medical errors. How is the four-eyed principle secured? Or can an aid worker decide on this individually? Mr. Chairman. In addition, in current case law, a representative of a willing patient enjoys an independent right of inspection, but the current legislative proposal threatens to limit this to the grounds of a serious interest or consent to life. However, an incompetent patient cannot give permission to live. Is the Minister prepared to introduce an additional regime to ensure this independent right of access in the proposed legal amendment? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the explanatory statement accompanying the amendments. It says: "For the sake of completeness, it is noted that the patient can, of course, specify in his file who he wants to give access to parts of his file. The aid worker can point this out to the patient." I think it's worrying that the paramedic might be able to point this out to the patient. We think it's better if we have to. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to ensure that emergency workers are formally obliged to inform their patients of those rights of access to the medical file and who they authorise to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u31	Thank you. Then Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u32	Mr. Chairman. Under what conditions do survivors have the right to access the medical records of deceased family members? That is the central question this afternoon. The government proposes to amend a few laws in order to better regulate the right of access for next of kin. In order to ensure proper care, it is good that the government wishes to clarify and improve the patient's position. It is wise to extend the retention obligation for medical records to 20 years. It is also important that there is good legislation for when and under what conditions survivors can have access to the file of deceased family members. However, the SGP does not consider the proposed scheme to be an improvement on the current situation, since, at the moment, survivors can look at the medical records of a deceased person if it may be assumed that the deceased would not object. If a patient has made it clear that he does object to this, then family members will not have access to it now either. In practice, we see that this supposed consent is the most common reason for accessing the file of a deceased person. It is therefore quite remarkable that the government does not choose to establish this practice legally. On the contrary, I believe that the government wants the opposite. Survivors will only be allowed to see a medical record if the patient has explicitly put it on paper. As far as we're concerned, this is too big a limit for next of kin to see the medical records of deceased lovers. We really have our doubts about this. And not only are we abounding, because industry organisations, patients' organisations and professional associations are also critical. My question to the Minister is therefore what problems the government sees in today's practice. Does the Minister agree with me that this bill unnecessarily burdens patients with the question of whether they want to give their next of kin access to their files? Does the Minister share the SGP's view that this is an undesirable judicialisation? The SGP proposes to amend the bill in such a way that the person who was in principle authorised to see the patient's file when the patient was alive has the opportunity to do the same after the patient died. We are talking about the person who, when the patient was alive, was his legal representative or the person who was legally competent to make decisions on behalf of the patient or who could have taken them if the patient had not been able to do so. This may sound a bit technical, but my intention is that you make sure that a next of kin is almost always competent to see the file of a deceased patient, regardless of whether there has been an incident. I look forward to the Government's response to the amendment I tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u33	I fully understand what the SGP is proposing here. There's only one problem, I think. And that is that in the event of a sudden death, for example of someone who is still young, there may be no legal representative at all and no authorisation has ever been granted for access to the medical record. Today's practice actually solves that perfectly, I would say. However, this law does not really offer the possibility of obtaining permission in such a case, but you can assume that that permission would have been there. The SGP's proposal does not actually offer it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u34	Our approach is that it is. If someone were that young, a parent, a brother or a sister as legal representative could do so. That's what we do. As far as we are concerned, therefore, someone should always be able to look into it, unless the deceased person has clearly indicated: I do not want anyone to look into it. That's our intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u35	Then we agree, but I think it's not entirely technically correct. Because, of course, you have situations of 30s or 40s in which there is simply no representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u36	I'm curious. I wonder what the Minister's gonna say later. Our intention is that we have settled it with what we have now written down in the amendment. I wonder if I'll be right about you later. But the intention is the same as what you say. Good. I'll get back to where I was. I was almost at the end, so don't worry. The government wants an aid worker to be allowed to determine if anyone has a significant interest in accessing the file of a deceased patient. More has already been said about this. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me that this is a legal question on which an aid worker himself is difficult to judge. I wonder whether I can read the article in such a way as to refer to the 'aid provider': the legal adviser of the healthcare institution concerned or perhaps something else. I would like the Minister to make that ambiguity a little more explicit, so that, when the law comes into force, it will be clear how this should be interpreted. I have one final question about the calculation of the costs of this proposal. Minister, can you argue these calculations a little more extensively? Do you not think that the financial burden of the proposal for health care institutions is unrealistically low? I'll leave it at that in the first place, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u37	Thank you. The last speakers on the side of the Chamber are Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u38	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a law that will extend the retention period of medical records and the way in which survivors can access the file of a deceased person. This is an important subject, because access to the medical record can be very important, for example if a medical error has been made, but also for many other reasons. The SP wonders why the Minister has opted for a 20-year retention period. This figure seems to have come about fairly randomly, as a kind of compromise. The question is whether it is long enough, especially given the importance that medical information can have. I am thinking, for example, of the child who has been abused, which we mentioned earlier. Such trauma can lead to major problems and questions at a later age, and then it is important that information is available. Then a 40-year-old can look back at what happened in his family at the time, with himself or with his family, and in which the family has all failed. Then maybe 20 years won't do you good. The original proposal of the Health Council was to keep medical records for at least 30 years, precisely because of the importance of the aid and truth finding. I have just mentioned the example of child abuse, but also in the case of asbestos victims it may be important to look back far back in time. During this period, discussions are being held on chromium-6 and burnpits in the Defense Department. It is very important for patients who become ill now or later that their medical records are kept. I ask the Minister if he agrees. Does he therefore share the view of the SP that a period of twenty years might be too short? Does he also agree with the SP that just now more and more information is being stored digitally, it is also easier to keep data for longer? The SP would like to hear from the Minister how medical records are currently being kept. Tomorrow we will be debating youth care in Utrecht in this room, where medical data has gone over the mail in plain text. We know that at the closing of the Slotervaart CD-ROMs went wandering around and folders remained in the closet. You're wondering if it's actually possible to keep all medical records in a good way for decades. How, for example, is this going with the growing group of self-employed people in health care? Are they able to keep records of their former patients far after their own retirement? My question to the Minister is: how is it going at the moment; how is it going to be resolved? What if a health care provider himself dies, quit his job or the organization goes bankrupt? His records of deceased patients then in good hands or can they also disappear? Can the Minister give examples of situations in which this has gone wrong? Has there ever been any thought of setting up a central archive where the files of deceased patients can be stored, precisely to prevent this fragmentation? Would it not be much more practical and cheaper for self-employed or small-scale institutions to transfer medical records from deceased people when they are no longer able to keep them? Or does the Minister think it is well arranged at the moment? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u39	On this point, Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u40	There was just a bit of discussion between Mr Hijink and me. You also don't want data to be infinitely somewhere, because there could be something wrong with it. Mr Hijink mentioned a number of examples of this and asked what the government could do about it. What kind of measures does Mr Hijink intend to take to prevent that information from getting into the wrong hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u41	I just made a proposal to set up a kind of central archive where files of deceased patients can be brought to; digital or analog, that doesn't matter very much. I do not know if that is a good proposal, but I ask what the Minister thinks about it. I think that might help to prevent data loss. I imagine it's hard for an independent psychiatrist or a small-scale care institution to look 20 years ahead and tap completely into how you're going to secure that data. I don't know if that's a good idea, which is why I'm putting it to the Minister, asking him how he looks at it. That could be a solution, precisely because we see fragmentation in care, with a large number of self-employed and small businesses. Then it will become increasingly difficult to secure that data properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u42	And how long would you want information from a deceased patient stored at such an agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u43	We have tabled an amendment to extend the period to 30 years. The minister wants to go to 20 years. I do so for the reasons I have just mentioned, namely that in the case of sexual abuse or abuse in your youth, it may be of great importance that you can look back on that well into the forties. Then it would just be a shame if that information was lost, including for the processing of that trauma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u44	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u45	Mr. Chairman. If the survivor of a deceased patient wishes to have access to the medical record, a substantiated request must be made to a doctor. The question is, of course, why the treating doctor only decides on this. Especially when the same doctor may have acted wrongly, it becomes more difficult for the next of kin to have access to a file. Has the Minister also considered building independence into the right of access? Why, for example, was it not chosen to include an independent doctor, another expert or a committee in the inspection scheme? That gives the next of kin much more opportunities and can prevent a court-martial. The question is why the cabinet has decided to adapt the current practice. At the moment we are working with supposed consent, when it can be expected that the deceased would not object to access to the file. Organisations - they have all been mentioned before - fear I think rightly further legalization of this process, even if the supposed consent is abolished. The Council of State also makes comments about this for a reason. The government states that the supposed consent leads to implementation and interpretation issues. That may be so, but the same problems can be expected now that the government is talking about a major interest that the next of kin or a person thinks they have in obtaining access to the medical record. Because what exactly is a major issue? Grief processing can be very important for a next of kin, but a doctor can think very differently about it. Survivors may, for example, need access in the context of the loss of a loved one. According to the Minister, is this a major issue? Questions relating to a medical file are, of course, very logical. Especially after a sudden death, the family would like to know from a doctor if there were any signs. This bill speaks of incidents or serious interests, but there may not always be such interests. And yet it may be important for the family to talk to the doctor. That conversation is often purely informative. Have there been any heart problems that could explain the sudden death of a patient afterwards? Are there any clues to cases that could have caused sudden death? Such a call may be important for processing. It is precisely then that the reason for the conversation is not a reproach or suspicion towards the doctor. In my view, that is what is now included in the legislative proposal, namely a major interest or suspicion towards the doctor. The conversation with the healthcare professional starts with the premise that the doctor may have done something wrong, while of course that will not be the case very often. That patient or the next of kin just wants information for his own processing. Doesn't the Minister think that this law is too much aimed at benevolent behaviour rather than at the good conversation between doctor and next of kin? Does the Minister not find it strange that representatives of a living patient can see the medical record, but that they will not be able to do so automatically after the patient has died? What exactly makes sense? Mr. Chairman. You know, we still have a lot of questions about this law. This minister presents it as a step forward in relation to the current situation, but from the point of view of care, from client councils, patient organisations and many others, there are serious doubts. The SP sees these questions, too. I am therefore very curious to hear the Minister's answers to all our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u46	We will hear that in ten minutes, because then we will listen to the Minister. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u47	It is my intention to finish this debate before dinner break and with all your help it will work. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u48	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill to amend some provisions of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, the WGBO. The core of the bill is to strengthen patients' rights. The amendments proposed by this bill were included at an earlier stage in the Client Rights Care Bill. That bill turned out to be too comprehensive, and that is why my predecessor at the time decided not to go ahead with it in its entirety but to put it before your Parliament. Other parts of the client rights care bill have now been incorporated into the Quality Complaints and Disputes Act, the Wkkgz, and the Care Institutions Act. Both have already been adopted by your Chamber and that is why this bill is now before you. Those adjustments focus on three parts of the WGBO. I would like to go through them with you before I come to answer questions from the Chamber. The first adjustment is about the patient's right to information. The current text of the WGBO has been formulated in this respect as a duty for the aid worker to inform the patient. This formulation is based on the classic medical model in which the patient's wishes are not the patient's wishes but the advice of the aid provider. In this respect, the legislative proposal proposes a number of changes aimed precisely at stimulating dialogue between the patient and the aid provider. That is in line with the model of joint decision, which we have discussed before in this Chamber. Decision-making together is based on a continuous interaction between the aid provider and the patient and not just at a single moment. The second amendment before us concerns the medical record. For example, in order to respond to the transition from paper files to digital files in various articles of the law, the words "documents" and "modest" are replaced by the term "data." The main change to this point is that the current retention period of the medical file is extended from 15 to 20 years, with the retention period of 20 years only starting from the date on which the last change in the file took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u49	To practice Mr Hijink's example. If you have it as a baby for a year and you add 20 years, then the file will be kept for up to 21 years. If anything comes up when you're 18, it'll be saved for 38 years. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u50	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u51	Assuming everything is in one file in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u52	That's verse two, of course. That's more of a hope thing to live on. We know that there are many doctors and that we have not yet achieved the situation that all doctors collect the data in one file. So there really is still work to be done, but I would like to make this comment about the twenty years from the last treatment, because there may still be a medical reason that makes it necessary to keep that data for so long. That is why 20 years have been chosen and not 30 years have been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u53	Well, then it's interesting. Then, for example, a child in youth care is up to his fourth year with a particular healthcare provider and then goes to another healthcare provider, which unfortunately happens quite often in youth care. That means that the child's record, where it has been in care for the first four years, can be destroyed in those 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u54	If we talk about the same child who first gets treatment at a care facility and then at a subsequent care facility, that file will go along. From the moment that treatment ends, you have to count those twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u55	Yes, but then the Minister assumes that the complete file, including everything, will always go to all healthcare institutions and all individual healthcare providers. I do not know if that is a somewhat optimistic view of the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u56	In making this law, it has been examined whether there is a medical relevance to data retention for longer than fifteen years. And there was. That period is therefore set at 20 years. The opinions on this point are formulated in such a way that a medical fact of 15 or 20 years ago can still play a role in the treatment of today. That is why 20 years have been chosen and not 15 years have been chosen. That was the second adjustment we are talking about this afternoon. The third adaptation of the WGBO concerns the right of access of survivors. This is a new provision in the WGBO whereby, after the death of a patient, survivors are entitled to access his file in the following three cases. One: if the deceased has given written or electronic consent during his life. Two: if a notification has been made that an incident as referred to in the Wkkgz has occurred. Three: if there is a major interest for which access to the file is required. These are the three proposals aimed at strengthening the right of the patient. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to answer the questions, first that of the CDA. It was a lot of questions, but I'd love to go through them with you. The first question was: how is it ensured that patients and their relatives are aware that a patient has indicated who can look in his file, who can have access to his file? The answer is that the patient may choose to inform the relevant persons in his or her environment in advance. That should then be recorded in the medical records. That can be written or electronic. If he doesn't, the next of kin can always contact the care provider of the deceased patient with a request. The latter must then verify the consent on the basis of the medical record. A patient himself always has access to his own file and thus has a right of copy. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg made a point of it later on, others also did so, namely that the provision of good information and good communication are necessary. I would like to take it upon myself, in consultation with the Patient Federation and the KNMG, to see how we can make up for the information on this issue. That was actually CDA's second question: how is it well communicated to patients and their relatives that oral consent to access to the file is no longer possible at the moment? Who's gonna make this talkable when? It must be clear that consent can no longer be given orally, but that this can only be done in writing or electronically. The patient can draw up a document for this purpose, written or electronic. That sounds a little heavy. It can be shape-free, but he'll have to let us know actively. He may also indicate orally to whom information may or may not be provided after his death. Of this, the aid worker makes a note of it than in the file. As I have said, I will ask the KNMG and the Patient Federation to communicate this well in information; the department will play an active role in this. The following question: can the Minister comment on the KNMG's argument that not accepting a supposed consent leads to further judicialisation and whether it remains within the limits of the opinion of the Personal Data Authority? This bill makes clear when and when there is no right of access. The patient's will and wishes are better matched. It is therefore expected that the legislative proposal will lead to less legalisation. I cannot, of course, guarantee that there will never again be any form of legalization, because the concept of "heavy interest" may also require interpretation. In order to clarify this point, the ground "heavy interest" has been explained as much as possible in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. The CDA's fourth question. The procedures that survivors can enter if they do not have access to them can become cumbersome and time-consuming. Is it possible to use an independent third party before that time to assess whether access to the file should be provided? The complaint officer is an independent person who assists the complainant free of charge and investigates how the complaint can be resolved. This ensures that a timely assessment of the request for access by an independent third party is carried out in an easily accessible manner. The complaint officer may arrange a second opinion between the physician and the next of kin. So I do not think it is necessary to arrange for an additional independent third party to be involved. The next question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u57	Mrs van den Berg on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u58	Let me just make sure I get this right. It is therefore possible to indicate to the complaint officer that there is a desire to have access to the file, whereas the request was initially 'no'. Subsequently, the complaint officer helps to bring the request to the attention again, but even in the second period it can simply be said no. My question was about the following. I have already indicated to Mr Mulder that this is contrary to what the PVV and I believe Mr Hijink have proposed. I don't know if I should mention the word mediator, but can you do anything to avoid legal proceedings?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u59	Yes. You can first report your complaint to the complaint officer. Above that, an independent procedure is possible. I will come back to that later. It's right next to the hallway to the judge. So yes, there is still the possibility to file a complaint with the independent complaint officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u60	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President. I don't understand exactly the order in which we're answering now. Now we're gonna go through everyone in a row and then we're gonna come across the same subject six times? Or is it the idea that if I asked the same question as Mrs Van den Berg, we are going to discuss it completely at the time? How exactly do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u61	I don't see anything. I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u62	I see that as follows. I've got the eight speakers in a row and I'm trying to answer everyone exactly. It was not possible for me to combine all the topics in ten minutes. Many very precise questions have also been asked, so it is not so easy to combine questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u63	And now we have arrived at Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u64	Yes, exactly, because for example she asked questions about the importance of which I also have and had quite a lot of questions. Now I wonder if I should throw them all in now or if I can do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u65	You can do that. It's up to you. But the chair is about the order of business. I wanted to answer you to speaker eight, because that was you this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u66	Yeah, but if the subject comes up, I think it's the most useful thing if you're just gonna join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u67	Mr President, do as you like it...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u68	Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u69	...but I wanted the speakers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u70	But these are very specific questions from Mrs Van den Berg, who were also somewhat out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u71	Well, I wonder. The question about the major importance is very important to me. Even if you read the explanatory statement, the rather heavy grounds are the word "say" on the basis of which you as a next of kin get access to the medical records of a deceased patient. I think it closes the door to the good conversation, the good conversation that you can expect now sometimes if someone died prematurely and if the family just wants to know exactly what happened and if they could have seen things coming. There is not always a reproach or a possibility of a medical failure, as one of the other conditions says. There is simply a request for information, without anyone being able to say exactly: well, I have a very serious interest that is harmed and that, as the pleading says, can also be supervised by inspection. In my view, this is a very serious measure, a very serious condition, which is going to mean in practice that people who simply want to have a good conversation are not going to get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u72	The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen patient rights. That's what this bill relies on. I believe that the legislative proposal clearly defines the importance of this issue. That makes it clear. There's no longer any supposed consent. It is now explained in what cases the next of kin has that right of access. It's defined very precisely. I think that's a step forward from the patient's perspective and from the patient's privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u73	That will be, but the patient perspective is not the only perspective the minister has to look at. Look, when he talks about important interests, he mentions in the explanatory statement the example of children who want to destroy a marriage that father or mother has entered into at the time when he or she was incompetent. I understand that this is a very important issue, but that is not the practice as it is now. It is also not the reason that next of kin often have to have access to a part or the entire medical record. They just want to know if the doctor of their suddenly deceased brother or sister might have had a look at certain ailments they didn't know about. Was there any medication they didn't know about? They want a good conversation without blaming the doctor. That option is now being taken out of the law. In my view, this is why patient organisations say that this is a weakening of the possibilities now available for access to the file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u74	I am not sure I agree with Mr Hijink. In the example Mr Hijink mentions about a family with a hereditary issue, the possibility of having that good conversation is still there, especially if it is a specific question. This can be defined under the theme of major importance. I think that space is still in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u75	I just don't think that's right. It is also the analysis of patient organisations and other organisations in the care sector: it is going to do the opposite, it is going to force relatives to wriggle around in all sorts of turns to make it clear that they have a major interest that will also be solved through access to the medical file. In most cases that is simply not the case. This still means that that course to the complaints committee and ultimately to the judge must be made, just to get a conversation with a doctor, which you can normally have normal contact with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u76	I repeat, the bill was built from the perspective of strengthening patient rights. That means there'll be a shovel. This is at the heart of this bill, not other interests. When it comes to a care question, for example, a hereditary issue, the family may want to have a good conversation. That is therefore a major issue. Then there's that space. I can see that space. I would have stayed with the CDA's fifth question. Can the Minister guarantee that the independent right of inspection for the mentor of a multi-year-old will-incompetent patient will be maintained? This bill provides for the person who was a patient's representative at the time of death to have access when an incident has been reported to him. It is also arranged that a former representative may request access on the grounds of a major interest. Therefore, I do not think it is necessary for a mentor to have access to the file of the deceased patient at all times without specific grounds. There is no longer any reason for this in his terms of reference. There are no longer any decisions to make about the patient's care, care, treatment or guidance. The mentoring therefore ends with the death. How are the proposed provisions on "decision together" maintained? And does the patient know that? Can patients with such complaints go to the Dutch National Health Service, part of the IGJ? The answer to the last question is yes. Although the IGJ does not directly monitor compliance with the WGBO's obligations, the civil courts do so, but the inspection does supervise the concept of good care as laid down in the Wkkgz. The inspection may also appeal to a healthcare provider. Therefore, patients can also contact the Dutch National Health Service. If a healthcare provider does not comply with this and a good conversation with the inspection does not help, the inspection may also give an indication to the healthcare provider. In the final case, this could lead to the imposition of a penalty charge. Then the point of the information position. Has the patient's information position been improved only on paper or in practice? How is the patient informed so that he knows that? The decision-making process is increasingly taking place; this is becoming more and more practice. I come back to that in reply to the question put by Mr Rutte. So it is certainly not something to keep on paper, but it is something to put into practice. This change of law is mainly a legal anchoring of the movement that is already going on in practice. More and more healthcare providers and providers want to make their own decisions together. The vast majority of patients want to participate in the decision on treatments. Within the Origin-oriented Care programme, I am committed to broadening and accelerating the process of joint decision-making. This is done, among other things, with a campaign to ensure that this is done in training, the availability of good choice aids and patient information. Next question. Can the Minister explain why he wants to present the extension of the scope of the WGBO only after the adoption of this bill? Widening the patient rights from the WGBO to long-term care requires a change to the Long-term Care Act. The aim here is to include analog provisions in the Wlz and to differ based on parts of them at most because of the own terminology and character of the Wlz. It will also include any changes resulting from this legislative proposal. First step will be a consultation of field parties on the relevant elements of broadening. This step has already been promised by my predecessor. As soon as possible, a legislative proposal to amend the Wlz will then be submitted, but this can only be done when this law, the WGBO, has been adopted by the Upper House. Then the question: what kind of care will the scope of the WGBO be expanded in a moment? This bill amending the WGBO amends the Youth Act, so that the various patient rights are also regulated in the youth provision. The Youth Act follows the regime of the WGBO. This bill also amends the Wmo. Due to a good connection to youth care, the retention periods of the files of the Advisory and Contact Point Domestic Violence and Child Abuse are also extended to twenty years. On these points, the scope of the WGBO will be extended shortly. For the Youth Act I made a comment, for the Wmo I made a specific comment on the retention periods of files. That is not going to be a joint decision, nor is it going to be a right of inspection. Mr President, then question 10. Can the Minister promise that by September of this year at the latest, the Chamber will receive the agreed legislative amendment to extend the scope of the Wlz............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No, that's not gonna work, no matter how fast we are. We must make sure that there is clarity first about the modified WGBO. I can try to bring the consultation forward a little so that the First Chamber may not have discussed it at all, but I do need to be clear about what is in this amendment and whether there is a majority for it in Parliament before the consultation can really be carried out. You can always prepare. Mr. Chairman. The next question was whether the patient will receive a message after 20 years that the file will be destroyed. No, the former patient doesn't get that message. This is a period of 20 years after the last change. Often it is no longer known whether the patient is still alive and where he lives. The enormous administrative burden such as this should be maintained plays an important role in this. As I said before, every patient has the right to obtain a copy of his medical record free of charge. And the doctor will have to provide that within a month. I have two more questions on the part of the CDA. Why do the retention periods of files within the Wmo remain at 15 years, and why are these urgent reasons not within the Wmo and within the medical care? A significant retention period for medical data is desirable in view of possible longer-term medical treatment. The medical record can provide insight into previous diseases and correlations between diseases and treatments. Think of heredity of disorders and DNA affinity. For this reason, the Health Council has argued that medical data should be substantially longer for the patient and close relatives. That urgent reason doesn't play within the Wmo. Such records do not contain medical information on disease patterns relevant to maintain for the longer term. Finally, the CDA asked: to what extent can a patient, using personal data environments, PGOs, keep a file itself longer than the legal deadlines? The WGBO only arranges the medical file insofar as the aid worker keeps track of it. A personal health environment is not a medical file as referred to in the WGBO. Once the information is in the possession of a patient via the PGO, through that personal data environment, the patient is free to do with it what he wants to do with it. And also the next of kin can freely dispose of it if the patient has given permission to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u77	I have one more question and would like to go all the way back to the beginning when the Minister spoke about the complaint officer. He said, "I'll come back later on to a procedure that goes sideways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u79	I'd like to hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u80	Well, one procedure is the independent complaint officer. If you don't get out like that, you can appeal to an independent dispute procedure. That's how we discussed it at the Wkkgz. Those two possibilities are to deal with the complaint. In addition, the civil court can always be called upon, because the WGBO, with the O of "agreement," is judged by the civil court. I come to the questions asked by the PVV. Mr Mulder's main concern was the proposal to appoint an interested party as a medical adviser. He also said that an amendment was made. The explanation is: if the aid worker refuses to provide access to, or copy of, a deceased patient's data on grounds of major importance, and if it is a suspicion of a medical error, the aid worker must provide access or copy to a medical adviser designated by the person concerned. That is how Mr Mulder's question was asked, if I have noted it correctly. I understand the idea, but I do have concerns about it and I am not concerned about it either, because there is no guarantee that that independent medical adviser is an expert, but also that he is independent. There is no professional secrecy for that consultant. He may take note of the medical record and pass on the contents. That's a breach of professional secrecy. In addition, the consultant's conclusion does not yet mean that the applicant has been harmed in his interest. That is why I am not in favour of the amendment proposed here by the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u81	If this is the only problem, I think I have the solution for the Minister, because in our proposal that person is always a doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u82	I do not think that is the text of the amendment. And in that case too, the question is whether such a medical adviser has added value. After all, the survivor of the deceased patient has a right of inspection under a number of conditions, the aid worker must provide that access, and if access is not granted, then the right of complaint can be exercised as I have just explained in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u83	Maybe in abundance, but it's a doctor. He is therefore competent in this matter. He's more independent than the paramedic involved in the whole case. And that complaint procedure is there, but it takes up to six months at the moment and even longer in a civil court. That's too long. That is why our proposal is very fair to resolve it in this way. It's backed up by all the laws that exist. It's independent. People are covered by professional secrecy. It would fit perfectly into the idea of the Minister's bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u84	No, so I said it doesn't fit because I'm on the other route. We are talking about a right of access for relatives of deceased patients. That's what the paramedics are asking. If they do not get out of there, there is room for a complaint procedure. Mr Mulder mentions these deadlines, but the complaint officer, as we discussed at the Wkkgz, must not therefore respond within six weeks. In any case, there should be no delay in doing so. Mr President, this was the most important point I have noted from the PVV Group. Then I turn to Mr Kerstens' question of the PvdA. Let's see. Mr Kerstens asked: "What more are we going to do than just decide that together in the WGBO? That's on paper; is that also happening in practice?" Yes, I recall the program's outcome-oriented care. Together with the Patient Federation, the Federation of Medical Specialists and other representatives from the field, we work to ensure joint decision-making in training programmes. Mr Raemakers has also asked for this. A campaign on deciding together with the three good questions has also been mentioned as an example, as well as other ways of organizing care so that caregivers get space and time. So the movement towards that joint decision has really been deployed for a long time and is progressing steadily in practice. You could say that this development from the practice of that joint decision, which we are certainly not finished with, is being codified in the WGBO. Then there was a question about the right of access of next of kin. What problem is being solved here? There is currently no legal provision for post-death professional secrecy. General considerations, provisions and case law should be taken into account. Emergency workers, survivors, lawyers and judges have to deal with such requests. In those requests, only rejections are high. Recent statements on post-mortem medical professional secrecy are incoherent and sometimes create uncertainty. The existing case law on post-death medical professional secrecy has been analysed earlier but also recently. The conclusion is that this lack of clarity underlines the need for the present legislation. The mere fact that there will be a settlement is expected to result in a more accessible right of access to the post-death file. Then the question was: what does the Minister think of the criticism of clients and caregivers that the law does introduce a problem? I disagree. On the contrary, this legislative proposal sets out more clearly the right of access. That's why I'm bringing up the bill. So much for the questions from the PvdA Group. Then there are the questions asked by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u85	There is another question from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u86	I still have a question for the Minister. What problem is he going to solve when it comes to access rights? I thought I heard him say that the current case law is not so clear, that it is even incoherent. That is quite something to say about a judge's judgment, because of course judges also look left and right at what their colleagues have done. That's how they build case law. Could the Minister explain the term 'incoherent' when it comes to the judgments of judges on the right of access, so that I get a little more sense of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u87	The point here is that supposed consent needs to be interpreted. In fact, I would like to get rid of that interpretation by clearly stating that there will be a right of access to the patient file, with clear criteria. Then we're done interpreting it by all kinds of people who can do it very well. We're trying to bring clarity to the front. We do that for the benefit of the patient and to the satisfaction of the patient. I think it's important for the patient to make this arrangement this way. The aim of the scheme is to protect patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u88	I'm going to use some black-and-whites now, not because I believe they're completely accurate, but because then it's obvious. I am also going to build on what speaker number eight, Mr Hijink van de SP, said earlier. Is the Minister not afraid that he is going to replace one vague term with another vague one, namely "heavily important," and that he is going to provoke, as I mentioned in my speech, a new trite of judgments? Is he not going to ask the same scholars, ladies and gentlemen, to do whatever they have done with the term "suspicious interest" and what is not to the Minister's liking? How long will it take the Minister to conclude that this new term, which he introduces, is not complete and that he is going to gladden us again with another term, which may lead to new statements and uncertainties?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u89	I don't expect that, but perhaps I'm looking at this point a little bit more gloomy than you are, asking you to include the ground "suscepted consent" in the bill. No, you weren't. I believe that was Mr Hijink. I'm not for that. Supposed consent leads to all kinds of interpretations and execution questions. There must be clarity when there is a right of access by next of kin, so not suppose but know. At that point I have been advised in this way by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I think that is an important point. The patient decides. His importance is paramount. The patient's privacy is better served with the utmost importance. It is, after all, up to the aid to determine whether or not there is access and that leads to arbitrary decisions, to use another word, no matter how good the intentions and craftsmanship are. With a longer care relationship it may be easier to record supposed consent than with a short-term care relationship, and that cannot be the intention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u90	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. My specific question was: is the Minister not afraid that introducing the term "heavily important" will provoke a new legal discourse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u91	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u92	There will undoubtedly be room for a legal debate, but the gain of this change to the law is that the right of the patient is firmly anchored and served.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u93	The Minister keeps saying that this law will be an improvement for the patient, as the right of access will be strengthened. But if this is an improvement for the patient, why are all patient and client organizations so critical? If this is so good, why aren't they for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u94	That's more of a question you need to put there than it is with me. I think it's important, and I didn't go ice cream over one night to secure the patient's privacy with this bill. Of course, in this case, I looked at the Dutch Data Protection Authority. He says, "This is the way to go." I'm slippery for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u95	But that's kind of the problem, isn't it? The Minister is acting blindly on the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. This has therefore been the most important condition for making this law in this way, while all kinds of other organisations, which are at least as important and perhaps even more important, say that patients' organisations and client organisations are right: this law is a step backwards. The only argument that the Minister can mention is: the Dutch Data Protection Authority says it has to be, and that is why I am doing it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u96	It started with one's own thoughts, namely to strengthen the patient's position and to protect it better. I think that fits in with the other laws we've discussed in the past year to strengthen the focus on clients in care and their position. In that I am supported by the Personal Data Authority, and that is really only good for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u97	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u98	There he is again: only the Dutch Data Protection Authority. While all other health care organisations, whether employers, client organisations or inter-branch organisations, say: this law is a step backwards; this is not a strengthening of the right of access. What's left? The Personal Data Authority. That's just very narrow, very weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u99	I don't know. I would like to turn to those patients who are given a stronger right, perhaps the position of some of the aid workers who feel that they should make a little more provision as a result of this bill. Because that patient's right is getting stronger. Stronger than who? For example, in relation to that aid worker. It is precisely that this supposed consent is exchanged for a clear right that is laid down in the WGBO that I think is a step forward. You can't take me away from that. Then it is pleasant when other parties, for example a party that is not completely insignificant and has also been cited by you, such as the Dutch Data Protection Authority, make a meaningful contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u100	Fine. Can we get to a second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u101	Second term? I was halfway through the first term, with the fifth speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u102	I was a little too optimistic again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u103	That football game really starts at 9:00, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, all the bullshit on a stick. Mr Raemakers has asked a number of questions. Can the counselor properly assess the client's comprehension ability? Is this part of the training? Yeah, that's part of the outcome-oriented care. We use field parties to decide together to ensure that in training. I have now answered the previous questions about the retention of the data for up to 20 years after death. Is it sufficient that the law provides that the patient can return to consent already given? The patient can always modify his consent. The patient may also indicate who may have access to which parts. With this the patient has the widest possible control over who gets access to his file after death. I think that's a good thing. Mr. Chairman. How long before we have to talk about the 30 years instead of the 20 years? I've argued it before. Twenty years is a good balance between the various interests. The Dutch Data Protection Authority supports me in this. In addition, I fully comply with the advice of the Health Council by changing the rules on the retention period. The retention period shall start only on the date of the last change in the file and not at the time of production. In practice, therefore, the medical record is now substantially longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u104	That's exactly what I have a question about. It seems very important to me that the last registration in a medical file counts as the moment of measurement and that those 15, 20 or 30 years start then. But if that is so important, then what is the great importance of increasing those 15 years to 20 years? 'Cause that's only five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u105	Sure. But here is what I have argued before: a similar discussion on this subject took place in this Chamber about ten years ago. At that time it was taken into account that for some treatments and for some medical questions it was necessary not to keep the data for more than 15 years. So far, you might say, was when medical science advanced. Now the advice is to make it 20 years. Well, then I guess you shouldn't keep on for more than 20 years. You have to say: in those twenty years there is the weighting between the importance of the patient's privacy on the one hand and the importance that the patient may have on the other, without incredibly organising administrative burdens on the other. That's what I'm trying to achieve with these 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u106	But that twenty years instead of fifteen gives rise to the suggestion that there is some mathematical sum behind it. But why wouldn't you be 18 years old or 22 years old? So what specifically makes it 20 years? It's just a line. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u107	It's a line. That border wasn't just chosen. It wasn't a game of throwing darts. It has been taken into account that it may be useful to keep the information from the patient's file for 20 years, as it can find something important for his medical treatment. It used to be 15 years, now it's 20 years. Perhaps in ten or fifteen years we will say that this period should be even longer. I see that as progress of medical science. Mr. Chairman. Another question: is the decision-making broader than just cancer? The answer is "yes, it is." Deciding together is really a generic method that we will get more and more specific for a lot of treatments in healthcare. This outcome, the information that comes with it, will also become more and more available. We aim to ensure that in 2022 50% of the disease burden is available as outcome information for doctors and patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u108	On this point of deciding together. I myself have said something about this in my contribution: the relationship between treatment providers and patients is not equal. Now the minister just said he's codifying it together in this law. There are things like: an aid worker invites the patient to ask questions and looks into the situation. That's a very nice idea. Can the Minister explain once again in the context of an agreement what rights a patient now has when he says that this agreement with this treatment does not comply with what is laid down in this law? What is the legal significance of this codification?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u109	The essence of the change at this point is that it goes from a doctor-to-patient information requirement to a conversation. There are two things in that. So it becomes reciprocity and it is not limited to once. It's a continuous conversation between doctor and patient. These two elements are expressed in the concept of "decide together."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u110	However, it also states that patients should be advised that they do not have to do every treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u111	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u112	What if the patient says this didn't happen there at all? Then what's the route for the patient?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u113	If a patient has a complaint about his care treatment.............................................................................................................................................................. But there's still a lot ahead of that. Nor should we pretend that we are going to make a change when it comes to deciding together. There's really gonna be a lot of water running through the Rhine. A doctor, of course, always has an enormous knowledge origin on the patient. On the other hand, there is a great deal of concern to us, for example with outcome-oriented care and with the PGAs, that the patient's information position, which in many cases knows very well on the Internet, will only become much stronger in the coming years. That'll help with that conversation. I tend to say "here's the doctor in terms of information level and here's the patient," but I think we're going to get more and more of this movement. But that's not something you burn with a pencil stroke in a law alone. This also requires a change in behaviour and cultural change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u114	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u115	Mr Raemakers has asked whether we also have figures on how often there is supposed consent. No, I don't have those figures; I have to disappoint you. Then there is the question of how we can promote doctors in the office to encourage consent. I think I have given it ample consideration by now. How does the explicit consent of the client relate to the supposed consent of the doctor? That is the question again about the old situation with regard to the new situation. In my opinion, the explicit consent is unambiguous and clear and better indicates what the patient wants. Supposed consent is a personal assessment of the situation by the doctor and does not have to be equal to the patient's will. What happens if the patient is incompetent and what about mentoring? I have just answered that question in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg. I'm almost through, but there's still a question about reporting incidents in accordance with the Youth Act. There is no definitive regime for reporting an incident, but there is a need for it. I have written down: is there a major interest in the Youth Act? I hope that I have correctly written down Mr Raemakers' question. There is now no regulation on incident reporting in the Youth Act. This means that youth aid must be taken back to the criterion of major importance. The Minister of VWS is preparing a bill to join the Wkkgz with the Youth Act. It therefore provides that the incident reporting scheme already in the Wkkgz is also included in the Youth Act. Then it will also be arranged that the next of kin will have a right of inspection if he has received a communication from a youth assistance provider that an incident has taken place. I expect that this bill will be discussed with the parties concerned this year and will be able to go to the Chamber in the coming year. The question remains whether it is true that suicide is not always regarded as an incident in the Youth Act. The answer is that suicide is identified in the Youth Act as a calamity and should always be reported. Then there are questions from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u116	I have also asked a question about keeping the data after the patient's death: why is that twenty-year period applicable? 'Cause the patient would have died. Why then would a 20-year period apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u117	I have to come back to that. I'll save it for a while. I missed that question. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u118	While we are at it: I still have a question about the criterion of major importance, namely how the Minister looks at the recommendation of ActiZ and others to resolve it in a different way. Or has he already answered that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u119	I think I answered that question. It is very well defined when there is a major interest, but that is not what Mr Raemakers is asking for. In my opinion, the interpretation that the next of kin has a major interest in inspection and makes it plausible that this interest is harmed and that access is necessary for the defence of this interest is a very compelling argument in the law. I'll come back on that retention period. If I talk slowly, I'll make it by the end of the first term. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mr Rutte's questions from the VVD. He started by saying that the year 2015 was the year of transparency, but that it is still complicated for patients to make a well-founded decision about the treatment. Mr Rutte would like to hear from the Minister how he continues to make concrete work on getting a better understanding of the quality of care and the results of treatment. In the program Origin-oriented care, I work with the field to make outcome information available for 50% of the disease burden. This is not about somewhere far away in the future: I hung on to it the year 2022. If we could do that, I'd really love that. I've been talking to specialists very often to see what their progress is like. I also hope that this information will be useful. It should not only be done on a Dutch scale, but we should also be able to use information from outcomes of care in other countries, where people's treatments are often not so different from ours, for the Dutch situation. I think that through outcome-oriented care, patients get a better understanding of the effect of treatment on their health and their daily lives, even after treatment. I consider outcome-oriented care important. That is why I included it in the main agreement on medical and specialist care. Is it hidden? No, not at all, I want to advertise a lot of results-oriented care. That's why we're setting up a platform. I'll make sure patients have access to that information. We ensure that digital choice tools become available. So there's still a lot to do, but it's really more than just writing down in a law that you want to decide together. Then I come to two other questions. Is the importance of a survivor to know something about a serious hereditary condition also a major interest for the purposes of access rights? The presence of hereditary components or hereditary diseases can be of major importance. The indications for such components or diseases must be sufficiently substantiated, the more concrete, the better. A general request for access due to possible hereditary factors is not sufficient. It has to be a targeted question. A targeted question might be: my mother and my grandmother died of breast cancer, do I? Medical confidentiality and privacy must not be broken easily. This is evident from existing case law. So I say it again: if the information does not come from the aid worker, then there is the possibility of lodging a complaint with the complaint officer and above that with the independent arbitration committee. Can the Minister give an example of what he means by major importance? Can he specify the term "heavy interest"? The explanatory memorandum gives three examples of significant interests. These are cases which are considered to be of major importance in current case law. In addition, the ground is of major importance also a safety net for unforeseen cases. For example, you could rank a genetic disease on it. I have mentioned three examples. The first is about challenging a legal act of the now deceased patient. That could be the situation of a demented father who has changed his will. It may also be about access for a representative, for example a mentor in civil proceedings. Here you might think of the caring neighbor who gets blamed for not getting the doctor on time. The third situation of major importance is the suspicion of a medical error. Think, for example, of a seemingly innocent operation involving a young man who dies from it and a hospital that does not report it. These are examples of major interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u120	I have a question about how this works in practice. Can such a request be made orally? Can a major interest be substantiated orally? Or should the next of kin complete a whole book to convince the doctor that there really is a serious interest, that the importance is harmed and that access is needed in order to resolve this? What is this supposed to look like in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u121	In any case, it must be clear and understandable and it must be on paper for the aid worker, which seems very clear to me. But I do not think there should be a whole book for that, as Mr Hijink says. That doesn't seem practical to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u122	It concerns the discussion we had earlier, whether it would be easier or more difficult for relatives to access the medical records of a deceased person. They say it will be more difficult to weaken the right of access. If it becomes complicated for next of kin to be able to make such a request, and if I read the explanatory statement and hear the Minister's explanation, then you must be reasonably informed in the basis of this kind of request to have access to a doctor at all. I fear that this is not for many people and that the door will just close.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u123	No, that's not the point. In reply to Mr Rutte, I said that there must be a specific question, not a general question. The more concrete, the better. I have mentioned an example, and I do not think that this is a complicated question at all: my grandmother and mother died of breast cancer, do I, am I at risk? That is not a very complicated question and it is quite understandable. There's no need for a paper book to come up with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u124	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u125	Mr Rutte has mentioned two examples. One about the hereditary condition, and I've gone into it. But about the funeral organization. Is the importance of a funeral organisation to know something about specific characteristics of a patient also of major importance? This is about the need for very targeted information. In principle, the doctor's professional secrecy does not preclude the provision of this type of information that can protect funeral workers from risks. The KNMG also advises the doctors to act accordingly. So that is an existing arrangement that should work already, I say to Mr Rutte. Then I come to Mr Renkema. I have answered most of the questions by now. Mr Renkema asked if the Minister would like to take a hand in defining the concept of "heavy importance." I think that is an original idea, which I would like to discuss with the industry and patient organisations. For the sake of clarity, because I also notice that the concept of "heavy importance" is playing here tonight, I want to see if such a hand-out offers a solace and whether it can easily be made available online.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u126	Does the Minister say he's gonna board that conversation and that we're gonna be informed about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u127	I think that's a good idea. I'm gonna have that conversation with industry and patient organizations. I want to gauge the need. I can well imagine the question, so I'll add mine. Then I also think that this hand-out should not be hidden, but that it should be easy to read and understand online. I have now gone into the matter of the willless. And then the question of whether the aid worker can point out to the patient who has access rights, even specified. Shouldn't the paramedic point that out? That's actually a rhetorical question. Mr Renkema and I both consider it important for the aid workers to engage in the discussion on this issue, but the aid workers are capable and professional. As I pointed out earlier in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg, I would like to hear from the KNMG and the patient federation how best we can train patients and aid workers and provide information, including on this point. Then Mr Stoffer of the SGP. He asked: what problems does the government see in current practice in the ground of supposed consent? I intend to use proposed legislation to apply explicit consent as a criterion, not a concept that I find more vague. Mr Stoffer mentioned another amendment, the SGP amendment in part No. 9, which provides that the person authorised to see the patient's file is able to do so even after the patient has died. I would advise against that amendment. I am just trying to strengthen the patient's position with the legislative proposal before us. The amendment creates an automatic right of inspection for anyone who is present in the inner circle around a deceased patient. I'm not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u128	Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to present another case. Suppose you have a healthy couple from about the end of 30, early 40s. One of them gets into a serious car accident and ends up in a hospital in critical condition. Look, normally, I think you'd just want to go through that medical file. But do you have to go in such a critical state and harass someone with "please give me that signature so I can look at that medical file"? You could end up in a situation like that. I find that undesirable, because I think it will always be the case that such a man or woman would like to give that permission, but you shouldn't want that at the last minute. What does the Minister think of such a situation? You shouldn't want that, should you? And I think you can avoid that with our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u129	Well, in this accident there must be a question of concern. And if there is a question of care, then it can be called upon to do so. What I am not in favour of is to make an arrangement as the amendment proposes, to allow the person who has seen the patient's file alive, so that is a group of people, who also understand to allow it when the patient has died. Then you create a certain circle of life and death around the patient, and that is quite different from what we advocate with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u130	Yes, but back to my first question: what problem are we looking for a solution for? I cannot imagine that, in practice, this often leads to problems. Maybe once or twice, but I think you're going to run into a much larger group of unintended problems with this bill. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u131	That, of course, is not the purpose. We are actually trying to solve problems, so we are exchanging an arbitrary concept of "sustainable consent', as I have just mentioned, for a clear legal regime that gives the survivors of deceased patients the right of access to the patient's file. So I think that's a step forward. A further question from the SGP Group: does the Minister agree with me that this bill unnecessarily entrusts patients with the question of whether they want to give their next of kin access to their files? No, I don't think this is an unnecessary burden; on the contrary, I think it's a good idea for patients to think about who they want to see after death. This will prevent the access of relatives when the patient would not have wanted to. In addition, this legislative proposal takes account of the patient's will and wishes to ensure access to care, as the patient's privacy is guaranteed. So not the doctor or the paramedic interpret this, but make a clear choice with the patient. Then there is the question of whether there is a major interest. This is a legal judgment which the aid itself is difficult to judge. Does "aid" in this Article mean the legal adviser of the care institution? No, it's not meant to be. It is the aid provider who determines whether there is a significant interest, just as the aid provider now has to determine whether there is supposed consent. On the contrary, the decision will be better for the aid worker, because the legislative proposal sets clear criteria. At the same time, the bill gives the aid provider flexibility for unforeseen cases. I believe that aid workers are able to make sufficient consideration of the importance of the matter. The field can develop handles and provide information and training. That is also what happens in practice. I just added something to that. The question is whether I can argue the cost calculation a little more comprehensively. I do not have many more figures than those I think Mr Stoffer already knows. The Sira Bureau has estimated that the cost of longer storage of the files, from 15 to 20 years, will be 1.3 million per year. This estimate has been assessed by the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review. If the retention period is extended to 30 years, these costs increase to 3.8 million per year. That's actually the only number I can mention. For the rest, only basic elements for good conversation are included in the law in relation to joint decision-making. I think a well-structured conversation might not even have to cost any more. Perhaps in some cases it can save time, but I find it difficult to express it in money. So much for my attempt. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Hijink. In the meantime, a number of questions have already been reviewed, for example on the retention obligation of twenty years. That's what I've been working on. What happens to the medical record if there's no successor? Mr Hijink knows the main rule. It is the duty of every aid provider to ensure that the medical record is kept and remains available to the patient. If the aid worker himself can no longer take care of this, he must ensure that another takes over this obligation from him in good time. Usually there's another paramedic as a successor. He'll take over the obligation to keep the file. The KNMG published an opinion in 2005 which gives a hand in dealing with such situations. It is only after the medical records have been transferred that the original aid provider's retention obligation lapses. Mr. Chairman. As a result of the case-Slotervaart, I am exploring whether there should be a legal provision as a kind of last-resort function, in order to ensure that the data in files of bankrupt institutions or deceased healthcare providers for which there is no successor are not lost. In the meantime, I have also discussed the right of access in detail. More and more information is stored digitally. Isn't it easier to keep medical records longer? That is, of course, the case in principle. It's got to be safe. But earlier in the debate, I argued that there are other considerations to limit the retention period to 20 years. That's proportional in relation to privacy. Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the question of the major importance before. Another question about the retention obligation in a central file. Can't there be a central archive with files of deceased patients, digital or analog? What does the Minister think? I've actually already given the answer here. I'll see if there'll be a legal arrangement. Finally, I have two amendments from the SP Group. I'll take that one. One amendment concerns the appointment of an interested party as an independent third party. If the aid provider refuses to provide access or a copy, an independent third party could play a role. This is about the amendment to item No. 10. I'm not for that. I would advise against that amendment. There are many good guarantees in case the aid worker does not want to give access. I referred to the complaint officer and the dispute settlement body. Then I have the amendment to item No. 8. The purpose of this is to set the retention period at 30 years instead of 20 years. I do not recommend that amendment because I find 20 years of balance between the various interests. On the one hand, there is the importance of keeping long-term medical records of patients in view of their possible longer-term medical treatment. On the other hand, there is the importance of protecting personal data and the burden on aid workers. The Dutch Data Protection Authority supports me in this view. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u132	This amendment has also been discouraged. You did say something about Mr Edgar Mulder's amendment to item No. 7 but the magic words have not yet reached us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u133	Then I will no longer keep you in suspense: I do not recommend that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u134	I felt that coming a little bit. So much for the first term. A number of speakers refrain from making a second-term contribution. I'm gonna go see who does have something to contribute. That is, first of all, Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions for resolutions and I would like to return to the PVV amendment. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is important that a coherent regulation of the legal status of patients and clients should be introduced within curative care and long-term care;]] [[considers that a broadening of the scope of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act to all long-term care relationships is therefore important;]] [[noting that this broadening of scope was already committed in 2010 and has broad support from client organisations and interbranch organisations in the care sector;]] [[calls on the Government, after consultation with the relevant field parties, to submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal to the Chamber to regulate the broadening of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act to all care relationships within long-term care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34994-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u136	In the debate, we indicated our concern about the complaints procedure. Of course, there is the procedure with the complaint officer, but he is employed by the care institution. It will have six weeks and then a six-month period will apply to the Disputes Committee. We are actually looking for a way to shorten the road. For that we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas survivors have the right to see the medical records of a deceased patient in the event of significant importance;]] [[Whereas a major interest may include a suspicion of a medical error on the part of a healthcare provider;]] [[Whereas the next of kin should make this presumption plausible and that the judgement as to whether this is sufficiently plausible is initially the responsibility of the health care provider concerned;]] [[Whereas, in the event of refusal of access to the medical file, survivors may lodge a complaint, proceed to the arbitration body or initiate civil proceedings before the courts;]] [[Whereas these may be lengthy procedures and this way of working is cumbersome, time-consuming and legalising;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for an independent third party to make a timely assessment of a request for access to the medical file of a deceased patient in an accessible manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34994-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u137	That's a very nice idea. But then you would simply like to see the amendment on item No. 10 to support precisely this proposal, namely an independent third party who is watching when there is a rejection and who can then decide to grant that access or not to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u138	We'd already prepared this motion, so we'd like to file it. We are very curious to see if the Minister would like to look again at Mr Mulder's amendment from the PVV, because it is specifically a medical consultant, a real doctor so that it is covered by professional secrecy and other legislation. So that is already better contained than the SP amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u139	The difference between the two amendments is that the PVV mainly zooms in on a third party involved in suspecting a medical error. We do not agree with that amendment. We believe that, at any time and on any basis, a next of kin should be able to appeal to a third party. That is the crucial difference between the two amendments. To be honest, I do not understand why the CDA is now putting forward a motion for a resolution that will have to deal with exactly what two amendments have already been tabled, so you can simply choose from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u140	No, that's why. If I may put it that way, we are looking for a way to solve this. Mr. Hijink, I think, is right to point out that it may not only be possible in a medical error, but also in other situations. The sympathetic aspect of the PVV amendment is that it is already being contained: it is a doctor who can be the independent third party. That might make it easier for the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u141	Thank you. Then there is Mr Kerstens of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I said in my first term that it is good that it is now clearly laid down in the law when, how and on which the good conversation between the aid worker and the patient should take place, so that the latter can make the best decision for him or her. But it has to be practice, more practice. As the Minister has pointed out, everything is being done about this, but, as far as I am concerned, there is still room for improvement, especially in the case of less mature patients, for example, or what is called 'culture-specific aspects'. Then these are people with a non-Dutch background. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas legal detail will be required when, how and on which consultation between the aid provider and the patient should take place, so that the latter can make informed choices;]] [[Whereas the inclusion of such rules is useful, but not sufficient in itself, to ensure that such consultation takes place effectively as envisaged in the legislative proposal;]] [[noting that not all patients are equally mature and not all aid workers, for example, are sufficiently aware of possible culturally specific aspects;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with industry and patient organisations, to consider how the "good conversation" envisaged in the legislative proposal can actually take place and whether or not to take joint action to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34994-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u143	For the cultural aspects, I can imagine that the Minister will consult NOOM, the Network of Organisations of Older Migrants. Finally, a few words about the right of access. Much has passed by on this, in the run-up to this debate and in the debate itself, in the defense of the Minister for his bill, to which a number of colleagues have tabled amendments and which I and other colleagues have asked critical questions about. In any case, the Labour Party is going to look again at the amendments tabled by colleagues before we vote, because, as I said in my speech, there is no 'just a little criticism' of that aspect of the legislative proposal. The minister finds many parties opposite, not only in the Lower House, but also in the field, where there is a broad front, a broad coalition of patient and client organisations and industry organisations of aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u144	Thank you. Mr Edgar Mulder has waived his speaking time. Then we will listen to Mr Raemakers of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u145	Thank you, Mr President. This bill deals with three matters. They have also been discussed in detail in the debate. With regard to joint decision-making, I welcome what the Minister has said about training, training and campaigning. I would like to make one more point about saying no to a treatment, so making the choice not to treat. My question was very specific as to whether it is broader than cancer alone. I haven't heard from the Minister about that, but he nods in the affirmative. That theme, I think, is also very important in the future. The second issue is changing the retention period from 15 to 20 years. I'm still waiting for the answer to the question of how to keep the post-mortem data. The Minister will return to that in his term. I'm very curious about that. Then the third subject of the bill: how is the right of access of relatives in the medical file? I think that the dilemmas have once again been properly addressed today. I also outlined them in the first term. On the one hand, you have the privacy of someone who died, but on the other hand, you also have the interests of relatives and aid workers. For them too, it must all be treatable. In view of all this, we have tabled a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the current situation, if a patient's relatives have been closely involved in long-term medical treatment, consent is often assumed to share the medical record after death;]] [[Whereas in the new situation without explicit agreement the medical file is not shared and this may lead to unpleasant surprises for the next of kin;]] [[Whereas, following the death of the patient, discussions about possible access to the medical record may lead to undesirable burden on doctors;]] [[Whereas the patient's choice of access to his or her medical records, including after death, should be central;]] [[invites the Government to facilitate the consultation of doctors and patients on post-mortem medical records in the event of long-term treatment, on a life-long basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34994-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u146	Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u147	Then Mr Renkema of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have said and heard what we need to say about 'decide together'. I think that should be the beckoning perspective when it comes to the relationship between treatment providers and patients. After all, that relationship is often uneven. A law isn't enough for that. The Minister has just said much more about this, especially when it comes to training, but also about complaint procedures. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to start discussions with industry organisations, patient organisations and possibly others on a hand-out to further explore the concept of "heavy importance" but also to give hands and feet. I'm curious about the results of that conversation. I have tabled a motion on one point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an ex-mentor or representative of a willing patient is entitled to independent access in current case law;]] [[Considers that this right of independent access is of great importance when a mentor or representative supports a willing patient in his or her life;]] [[Whereas this right is of great value both before and after the death of the willless patient;]] [[calls on the Government to give explicit consideration to the position of an ex-mentor or representative vis-à-vis a willing patient regarding the right of access to the medical file, even after his death, in the hand-up to be drawn up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34994-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u150	Then the one-after-last speaker of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u151	Mr. Chairman. There's a good thing in every law change, like this one. But when I look specifically at the right of access, we really do have the feeling: what problem are we looking for the solution for? I have a very strong feeling that a very great sacrifice is being made on the altar of privacy. Can next of kin, even though they might have meant it, still see what the medical record of a next of kin was? I tried to amend it. Unfortunately, this is not being taken over, so we will consider how we look at this law in the coming period. I'll leave it at that, because I don't have any motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u152	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Stoffer that it has not really become clear this afternoon and this evening what exactly the problem is with this law. Is it really an improvement on the current situation? The Minister always says it is, but the SP, other parties here and also the people who are involved, the patients and the clients, indicate that this law is not an improvement but a retrograde step. One grey area is exchanged for the other grey area. Now we've got the supposed consent, and we're gonna get some serious interests. This is, of course, going to be discussed in exactly the same way. I would prefer to assume a little more confidence in the actions of a doctor, who normally comes to a workable solution in good consultation with relatives. The Minister may have tried to close it legally now, but I wonder if that will ever work. And maybe we shouldn't want to. The SP is in favour of extending the retention period of medical records, but we find the five-year extension very difficult. I also see few well-founded arguments from the government that are not being chosen for a longer period of time. I have just said that many fear that this law will make access to the medical records of someone who has died more difficult. The Minister confirms that also at the time he says that a written request should be made to a doctor in order to obtain that access. I'm just afraid that for a lot of people in our country that's just a bridge too far. Unfortunately, there are people who have a great deal of difficulty in drawing up a well-written piece that a doctor can see as being of major importance. I wonder whether the Minister really meant to say that it is out of the question that this can also be done orally. Why should you, as a next of kin, not be able to go to a doctor and say: I have a question and do you think that there is a serious interest and that I have the right to inspect the file? I do not see why this should necessarily be done in writing, precisely because it creates a huge threshold for people who will therefore never have access to it. That is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a written application for access to the medical file of a deceased loved one raises a threshold for survivors to access that medical file on the basis of a major interest;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear that survivors can also agree orally, in consultation with a doctor, that there is a significant interest and that access to the medical record is allowed on that basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34994-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u154	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u155	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 11, after consultation with the relevant field parties, invites the Government to submit a legislative proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible to regulate the broadening of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act to all care relationships within long-term care. I think it would be a good idea to send the bill to the House of Representatives as soon as possible. But I would suggest that we hold this motion for a moment, because this is what Mr De Jonge is about. I shall ask him to give his ruling before the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mrs van der Berg agrees with that, I note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u157	The motion in part No. 13 calls on the Government to make it possible for an independent third party to make a timely assessment of a request for access to the medical records of a deceased patient in an easily accessible manner. I advise against this motion. As previously argued, the Wkkgz arranges that the complaint officer will give a ruling on a complaint about inspection within six weeks. Such a complaint officer is an independent person who assists the complainant free of charge and investigates how the complaint can be resolved. He's a low-threshold worker. I'd like to say he works fast, he doesn't work properly. That complaint officer may arrange a second opinion by another doctor between doctor and next of kin. So I do not think it is necessary to arrange for an additional independent third party to be involved. It's complicated enough as it is. So far. The motion in part No. 14 Mr Kerstens asked the government, in consultation with industry and patient organisations, to consider how the good discussion envisaged in the legislative proposal could actually take place and whether or not to take joint further action to this end. I think that good conversation is important. I'll have that conversation with industry organisations and patient organisations. I wrote down an organization I didn't know yet: Nomen. I'll see if I can get it involved. Oh, no, no, no, no, Whatever. The motion remains, nevertheless, Chamber's judgment. Then there is the question by Mr Raemakers of D66, before I come to his and Mr Rutte's motion, about saying no in the debate. Mr Raemakers is right. I did not go into that explicitly, but we can decide together in all cases, not just in the case of cancer. The question always has to be raised: do I still want to be dealt with? That's one. There was another question from Mr Raemakers about the retention period of post-mortem data. This is what the draft law looks like for 20 years, so twenty years from the last amendment. If someone dies, it may still be important for his children to call for access to the file of his deceased parent to see if there is still a question of care about a hereditary illness. The retention period of 20 years can therefore also run if the last treatment took place just three days before the death of fathers. The motion in part No. In the case of long-term treatment, the government requests that the doctor-patient be consulted, if he is alive, about access to post-mortem medical records. It is indeed important for an aid worker to state the consent requirement and the patient points out the possibility of recording his consent to post-mortem inspection in writing, so I shall give the motion the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Renkema's 16 requests that, in the manual to be drawn up, explicit attention be given to the position of an ex-mentor or representative vis-à-vis a willing patient with regard to the right of access to the medical file after his death. I think it is a good idea to pay attention to this in that hand-out, so this motion too is given a ruling Chamber. In Mr Stoffer's speech in the second term there were no further questions to me. I regret that I have not been able to convince him in this debate that it is stronger to express that right of access explicitly in the law and that that is better than supposed consent. So I'm still looking for ways to convince him. I am not quite sure yet, but I really hope that after a night's sleep I can count on his support. Finally, I come to Mr Hijink's remarks. He says: I am not convinced by extending the deadline from fifteen to twenty years, and I do not think that this is enough. I'm truly sorry about that. I have tried to argue that it lasts twenty years when it is possible to look back over a period of twenty years that is appropriate to the current state of medical science. Sometimes earlier treatments may have effect for up to 20 years after treatment. You have to match the retention period. In his motion, Mr Hijink asked the Government to make it clear that relatives can also agree, orally in consultation with a doctor, that there is a serious interest and that access to the medical record is allowed on the basis of this. I think I said too clearly in the first period that it should be clear and that it should therefore be written. I think it is right that, if there is an oral question or an oral request for access, we should allow it to be honoured. So I'll leave that motion to the House's judgment. Stand by to make the request clear. I suggest that I look into whether we can say a little more about this in the hand-out, which I mentioned earlier in the direction of Mr Renkema. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u158	So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-28.u159	I thank the Minister for his presence. On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, the amendments and the motions. I wish everyone a happy game.
