ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the amendment of, among other things, the Law on Primary Education in connection with the abolition of the fusion test in fundamental education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the presentation of this bill, which I have been able to send to you with a blank report from the Council of State, and I would also like to thank you for the first-term contribution. First of all, I would like to answer Mrs van den Hul's question: why are we doing this? Those are always good questions: why do we do something? Why is this bill there? In the explanatory memorandum, as well as in the note on the report, you have read that we want to give schools more room for local cooperation, so that they can jointly maintain a future-proof education offer. This is, among other things, more urgent than ever. But there are also other issues to mention why it is important that school boards work together. It's not an extra task, but it's important that you know your joint responsibility and not stand by each other for the provision of education in the area where your own school is located. However, the evaluations and the field consultations that have been held, and which you also know of, have shown that the merger test as introduced in 2011 and which had a broad support base, had a certain unpredictability. That was the reason to see if it is necessary to maintain the merger test, in the form in which it was set up and made compulsory in 2011. I say to you in all honesty that I regret the title of the bill, the abolition of the merger test, with retroactive effect, because it puts us on the wrong track. If we look very closely at what is going on around this merger test, then we can only observe that this bill deletes everything that was still in the law at national level, including with the approval of the minister for the merger. But looking at the developments in recent years, we can see that a process has already been going on and that, partly because of the shrinkage and bureaucracy experienced, adjustments to the original 2011 merger test have already taken place. In 2014, 2017 and last also in 2018, there was a change. What is very important is to face up to each other how the fusion test, which we set up in this way, has worked out. In the period from 2011 to 2015............................................................................................................................................................... The 219 was finally said of 16: it should not be this way; for that the red stop sign goes up. But you have to see it in the right proportions: 219 and 16. Of those 16, we had to let some of them go through after all. These were in particular mergers where the scale exceeded 50%. My predecessor said about this: that's gonna be crazy, talk about big schools in a particular area, monopolies and so on. But the Council of State has said that that is no reason to stop a merger. So of those eight of which the Secretary of State said: I would like to do something else there, four had to be given the green light. You could say that, through that system, some have ended up in the upper regions and a very limited part of it has been stopped. And of the part that wanted to be stopped, the Council of State once again said: 50% and above. And: no, that's no reason to stop it. Objections and appeals were therefore honored against the decision not to do so and in the end it had to be given the green light. You can have a very substantive theoretical discussion about this, but if you just look at what happened in reality for a moment, you can see that there was not so much more going on at national level, in the sense that mergers had to be stopped or monopolies prevented. You name it on what else you might have objections to mergers. I will come back to that scale later, because I have heard things here that I would like to respond to. There are also images that I do not think are really the reality in the country. So in the end there was very little left. Because of the drop in students, we said that the heavier test could be watered down a bit. We also felt that sometimes there should be more speed. Sometimes there was a need to act quickly at small schools, in areas where students would like to attend school nearby. They were falling over, and we've given them room to merge. That is an extreme form, by the way. I shall come back to Mr Van Meenen's question later. Of course, there are other ways of working together and being one hand and one foot, just to put it in biblical language. Mr. Chairman. Something's gonna stick. The title 'abolition of the merger test' puts us a little on the wrong foot. I myself have been involved in this, and I apologise for that, because in the end I am also responsible for the title of the bill. At local level, the merger test simply remains in force. We can't just merge. A competent authority always increases the initiative there. Perhaps it does so at the insistence of others, but the competent authority is responsible for developing those plans. There's no way we can do that outside of the people involved in and around the school. Those involved in the school are the parents, the students and the teachers. They have a very great responsibility for mergers in the co-determination council. I thought Mr Kwint was somewhat theatrical. It is always enough to look at, I tell you in all sincerity. You didn't just stretch out the arms. You said: "Are we going to give the participation council the task of...?" I'll come back to what you said back there. This was already a task of the co-determination council before the merger test was in place. Since 1 January 2007, the participation council had to agree to mergers. Since 2011, this law has provided the participation council with very sensible support for the need for a fusion impact assessment. It's gonna stay standing. We've captured exactly what's to be part of that. That's what's gonna happen. Mrs Van den Hul asked a question about this. That is very valuable information for a participation council. What do you mean "sign by the cross"? Those are people who have been put in a position to ultimately make trade-offs. I'd almost say, does the thumb go up or does the thumb go down? They're in pole position. They can decide that in the end. I will come back to it separately later, because more has happened around the participation councils. We are still working on it, because indeed, more responsibilities are coming to them. What we are doing here is putting horizontal accountability in a position as much as possible on a subject that has been demonstrated in practice in recent years. It worked very well, too. Otherwise, a lot more would have been stopped. They just did it in a good way. It is also the policy of recent years. We appreciate the ground. The people who work there must have control. Those are the people who need to be placed in the position that they can do their job. Such a fusion impact assessment also offers them all kinds of possibilities. By the way, this also includes an opinion from the B and W college of the place where the school is located. In short, it is locally really wide furnished. In the end, that is what we intend to do with this bill. Indeed, at national level, we are deleting a number of things. But look at the past few years. You really can't hold on to the fact that if we cut this off, all of a sudden all the locks are gonna open, that big mergers are gonna take place all over the country. Look at what happened in the last few years, even when that heavy test was still there. Nothing has been stopped since 2015. Everything has been honored. At local level, we fully honour the control that actually worked in practice. We put the people there in position and say, "You're gonna decide that." Is the merger test disappearing? Actually, I don't. Only, from now on, we invest the responsibilities and choices to stop or stop mergers completely locally. I would like to add the word trust to that. We are confident that the people who make that move can do so with their consent in a good way. I'm gonna say one more thing. In the end, there is still a national issue, and that is the Disputes Committee. At a time when the competent authority, which is always involved in this type of plan, does not come to agreement with the co-determination council, one can look for it higher up. That's what the competent authority can do, and so can the mr. Looking back at the past few years as well: the Disputes Committee is working very well. The Committee on Disputes has already put its finger on the place where it belongs, including the early involvement of participation in planning, which is simply inherent in having that responsibility. That's what we've been dealing with. We're gonna keep that up. If this law is passed, it will remain the reality in the near future. I think we'll have a pretty tight system with local responsibility, invested as I think we should, because we trust those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u4	I'm not surprised that the Minister would start with trust. If you're worried about something, then the tendency is often to find it all easier: yes, then you don't trust those people. No, there are good doubts about the position the mr has now. That is what the Minister himself states in response to excellent questions from Mr Rog, for example, who was also concerned about the position of Mr Rog. If all this had been well arranged now, all those things the Minister announced would not have been necessary for permanent strengthening of participation. Then it was unnecessary. I would like to take responsibility for this confidence. That's got to appeal to the Minister. In this way, the last little bit, admitted, is thrown overboard by national responsibility for the scale of education. I believe that participation can ultimately, if strengthened and if well supported, decide whether or not a merger should be found. But then you're just talking about the responsibility of the individual school. The system responsibility, the responsibility of the Minister, for example, a question: on what scale do we want to organise education and are we going to make policies about it? In this way, the whole thing is thrown overboard. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u5	Overboard I find a bit of theatrical language, as if something is suddenly going away that is still there in a manner of speaking today. From October 2015 until today, no merger has been stopped. All the merger requests were just in order. That means that the people who are working on that ground are simply doing their job and doing it in an orderly manner with each other. At least in recent years there has been no activity, so to speak. It wasn't necessary, because it all went the way we want it to go. Then there's the discussion of scale. I told you, I'd like to say something about that. I really fight the image that's big bad and small good. That image hangs a bit above this discussion, if you listen carefully to different inserts. Let's also take a look at the position of small schools. Great can mean at this time that it can be offered at home in areas where we know that if big would not have taken care of it, just to go through those terms, small cups would have gone under. So big helps in this country with falling student numbers... That is not just in certain parts of the country, but it stretches almost all over the country. As you know, we have other debates on this subject, which may ultimately have enormous, exciting consequences, including for communities. There they know that if the school disappears, the young families will also disappear, which will have enormous consequences for the quality of life. So I am very pleased that there are large, robust boards that maintain the small scale of education in the areas. In a large school group you can also organize small scale. I thought Mr Rog made a comment on that. We can see that, too. Small can also be very good. It is not for nothing that the cabinet has even increased the small school allowance. So the cabinet has an eye for small. Partly because of this small schools can remain independent and do not need to merge, because the cabinet makes money available for them. But small is vulnerable, even when it comes to quality. Let us take a look at the discussion of 'big' as bad and'small' as good, so let us also see in the proportions and proportions in which it happens every day in the country. Then perhaps it is not as black and white as is sometimes said for those who can use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u6	Yes, but then the Minister resists something that hasn't been said, and then he says it's not that black and white. No one has said: let the small schools in the shrinking areas disappear. In fact, I believe that the whole Chamber, however critical they may be about this legislative proposal, will consider myself for a moment to do something about it, that these schools should be saved and that merger could be dealt with if necessary. On the one hand, the Minister says that he wants a small school allowance, because the cabinet considers it important that small schools can continue to exist independently if they so wish. On the other hand, he says that the inspection should take an extra critical look at large school domes, because the cabinet sees a risk. It is not surprising, then, that we conclude from this that there are more parties who, to put it mildly, at least question this constant desire for economies of scale. It is not the case that only we have said that. Some of the people who have announced that they will vote in favour of this law, I happen to see Mr Van Meenen coming in. Indeed, they have said that they see the constant tendency to scale up education as a bad development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u7	"The constant urge to scale up." When I see what is happening in the country, it is for the vast majority of mergers where it was ultimately choosing or sharing: if we don't do it, schools will just disappear. Look what happened in Zeeland-Flanders! If at the end of the day one had not joined hands and had merged... I know that there were tensions between public and special, because the denominations still play a role in these kinds of conversations and considerations. The authorities have helped: local authorities, the provincial government and the national government. We did not do that with structural money, but we helped. If they had not merged there, there would have been major problems in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen for home education. Look at the living environment of Mrs Westerveld, the Achterhoek, where it happened a long time ago because they moved there very quickly. Drivers have taken on their responsibilities there incredibly well. And indeed, it got bigger there. But because it got bigger, one has really been able to take the blows of the student descent that are still palpable there, much better than if one had first continued to "module" in the same way and had only moved much later. We are indeed critical of large governments, because large governments also have a vulnerability in them. That is what we have come up against. That is also the reason why Mr Heerema asked, partly in connection with the discussions on what has happened in the south of the country, that we have indicated that we need to be even more alert to this. By the way, the new inspection supervision is already helping to do that, because that just starts with the driver. It wasn't in the past. In fact, we must also keep an eye on these drivers: do they have sufficient vision of their schools, especially if it gets bigger? But I'm gonna keep repeating it here again. This isn't necessarily bad, and small isn't necessarily good. We shouldn't play it against each other like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u8	It certainly isn't black and white. I would like to come back to the question of the confidence in the Minister's participation. In October 2018 there was the evaluation of the project Reinforcement participation. This showed, among other things, that the driver was crucial. This should facilitate participation and be well informed, was one of the conclusions at the time. Now that the driver has a major interest in advocating a merger, I believe that the care of the process could be compromised. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u9	Of course, the driver has an interest in a step he takes, otherwise he would not take that step. He felt it was important, for example, to take initiatives for a merger, because. And then there are the reasons for that. This is also an answer to Mrs Westerveld, also with regard to her amendment, which says that if he goes over that and the ground floor, the mr, but behind it, of course, does not involve the broad school community of parents, pupils and vocational teachers, that he will then have a major problem with the final decision. Because they have to agree. So in the end, a driver with arguments has to get the people who have to go along with it, who even have responsibility for consent, into the path he envisages and for which he has arguments. As a driver, you would be very stupid if you were only going to do that at the very last minute and say 'here I have a document, you see that cross there and you want to sign there', to quote Mr Kwint's example. Anyway, I don't think those people are gonna sign off on the cross at all. But you will simply have to involve them early, which is also inherent in the way in which we have to deal with participation councils. So a driver can take all kinds of initiatives, that's his job too, he has to do well, but in the end the content and the basis will determine whether it can eventually move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u10	However, my group is still concerned about ensuring that care is taken. That is why my question again, including those fusion impact assessments. If that central overview and the monitoring of it, including from the Minister, were to be removed, how can we be sure that this care is really guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u11	We have set out very precisely which parts belong to such a fusion impact assessment. We just secured it. That will have to be respected. Eventually, it's up to the mr to make a judgment as to whether it's enough. Let me get that right away. I wanted to do that at a later date, but we took care of it in 2017. We then amended the Law on Participation. Article 28, of course, is also clearly in your mind. They even have the right to hire external advice. The school's gonna have to pay for that. This also applies to the training of the members of the participation council. This has all been a gain in recent years when it comes to strengthening the participation council. I can imagine it very well, because it's not just a small decision when you have to decide on a merger as a participation council. If the legislation is changed, they can use that article to hire people who provide them with advice. I am convinced, with the confidence that I have in the people who are allowed to do that work, that with that external support they can ultimately come to a balanced judgment. In practice over the past few years, we can see that there are also those who have indeed said: sorry, but the thumb goes down, it just doesn't happen. Pretty exciting places, by the way. I can't call it all in detail here. Some things are still going on. I know that somewhere in the country there is a small school that threatens to fall if a larger school doesn't want to take care of it. The master of that larger school has great doubts and has not yet made a decision to this day. We have to respect that. We're not gonna force it from above. But these are the situations that play a role in practice. Madam President. This fusion impact assessment is still mandatory. I think it has been a very good move to incorporate it into the law in 2011 in order to put the participation councils that had that responsibility since 2007 in a much better position. It is linked to the support they can hire themselves and the competent authority has to pay for it. In all reasonableness and also in consultation, but it's the right that the mrs have. In my view, this provides sufficient tools to ensure that, if we remove the national powers that were still in the law and which have not played in the past few years, we simply continue to do so in a careful way in the future. That fusion impact assessment shall agree on the evaluation. Mr Van Meenen and others asked. It's just about making good deals. That doesn't mean you're saying we're gonna see each other again in three or five years. No, I can say in a manner of speaking: the first years must be so to speak every six months or years. We all have to record that. That room is just there. So that's part of the fusion impact assessment. It is also possible to agree in the fusion impact assessment on defusement or on the unbundling of an institutional merger or an administrative merger that has taken place. That can be agreed upon. I have the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen on this subject, No. Eight, I've seen it. I can give that amendment judgment, Chamber, because I believe that this is also the royal road. That is also what I am saying in response to Mr Kwint's amendment. I think he's very consistent. In fact, this amendment is somewhat in line with what you said in a general discussion report, namely that you think that the government can suddenly dismiss a driver. Then I also indicated to you: no, the royal road I did not use that word at the time is as follows. The competent authority, the legal person, shall be responsible for the staff. The Minister may, however, give an indication to the legal person. He'll have to start trading. If it does not, I have other options to make it clear that I do not appreciate it, such as funding: you know what that can mean. Here's the same thing: you can never give a mr autonomous responsibility to step out of a school group. This really needs to be done in conjunction with the legal person, the competent authority. You can make very clear agreements at the beginning about what the evaluation should meet. Because there have been certain expectations. Are they gonna come true? If these expectations do not come true, then what will be the perspective of action that the competent authority can say: then I will cooperate? So you can make good deals about that. I'll add something to that. We always want to look in time, but unfortunately we can't, and that's why we don't know what a school that's going to merge will be like in five years' time. We don't know what's gonna happen around that school. We do, of course, have estimates, estimates and so on, but we never know exactly. We also don't know what the quality of that school is around that time. If that school gets back on its feet, we want enough students and quality to be guaranteed. That's my little bridge to the bill we're going to discuss next week, the Law more room for new schools. We mentioned the possibility of an opt-out in the note on the basis of the report. We are going to strengthen parents' ability to stand on their own feet if they so wish, if there is sufficient support and if the quality is guaranteed. So, if there is support for this, we could possibly get out of a school and say: we are just going to start ourselves in this place. I think that a municipality will soon have completed the housing plan, because in that case they are already in a building, although I cannot sit on that chair. So there is even a possibility that that law will soon be able to make an opt-out. So there are two possibilities. Agreed as far as I'm concerned. Judgement of the Chamber for the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. The Law more room for new schools, which in practice might mean less room for new schools, is another option to get out of somewhere and start for yourself, to say the least.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u12	Let's get some advice first. If the Abolition of the Merger Test Act is not about abolishing the merger test and if the Law may mean less room for new schools afterwards, then perhaps we should think about the names that we give to these legislative proposals. The point is, of course, with schools that are merged, which become part of a larger administration. Schools that are self-employed and self-employed, I mean parents, teachers, teachers who are not satisfied with what it has brought them, and who then have to come to an agreement with a board about getting out. To stick to the minister's domestic style: that is a bit to the turkey ask what we eat for Christmas. If a government does not want a school to leave, and I agree with the Minister, it is indeed necessary to consider whether there is a realistic scenario that a school can offer continuous education on quality, of course. But let's say that's what teachers want, that's what parents want, and the board doesn't want it...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u13	Then the merger is off, very simple!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u14	This is about defusion, getting out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u15	Yeah, get out. You can make agreements in the fusion impact assessment that if the objectives are not met, you can defuse, that you can leave the school. You can make arrangements about that. The competent authority can pronounce and record on paper: these are the goals, we're going to start now because they also want to have the support of Mr. O'Brien but if this and this and this in the future at an evaluation moment that you meet with each other, is the practice, then we will cooperate in defuse. When a board says we're not gonna do that, okay? I'm not allowed to give advice to mrs, but then one might have to scratch behind one's ears again if one wants to join in that merger. Participation councils have so many possibilities and powers in their hands, please do not make that small. And with the amendment that is now being tabled, this is, so to speak, reinforced in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u16	I am not making it small; we want to make it very big. We want to strengthen exactly that position of the mr, by giving them the authority to get out. But my question is not so much about the time of the impact assessment. Of course, agreements can be made between them. My question is this: I can imagine that this would have preceded a period that would not have always been ideal for the relationship between governance and Mr. If you find during such a process that you are not achieving the goals together, that does not contribute to the mutual understanding. Then what happens when a Mr with such a fusion impact assessment in his hand says: boys, we are entitled to a defusion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u17	Well, that's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u18	And when the board says, "We're not gonna do that?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u19	These are agreements that of course are not written in the air without obligation. These are hard deals. With these appointments in hand... Let's say a board doesn't cooperate and you're gonna look for it higher up. I hope this kind of situation doesn't start. So that council really has a very clear position. You also say that I do not want to reduce the position of the co-determination council. I have literally written here in my notes: "first, show that they can handle it, not capable of it." I am convinced that the co-determination councils as they are now developing are placed in a very nice position. I am also convinced that we should continue to do so, because it will certainly not be easier with the expansion of the task package. The council really gets a lot on their plate. But also with the legal instruments they have received, even when it comes to hiring or attracting external advice, training and so on, we just offer them a lot. I am also convinced that they can make good agreements with such a fusion impact assessment. Again, these are agreements that are not simply non-binding. In fact, they'll stand up. If not delivered by a party when the time comes, then a council can look for it higher up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u21	I have a simple clarification question. Where can they find it higher up? Then who's going to say to the school board that it has to cooperate in defuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u22	We already have a dispute committee. That is a solid committee that can just start work in the beginning. Such a dispute committee can also be invoked in such situations. And you know that we also live in a rule of law, with a legal system where there are always opportunities to get you justice if you don't think you get it, with all the documents that convince you right. But I'm already talking about a very fictional situation. I just want to go back to the beginning, to this bill and to the amendment that has been tabled. The current practice is that everything is happening locally now, because nothing is going to happen in the higher regions. Well, that's great, because that also means it works. And we're putting them in position. Their position is even strengthened, even when it comes to possible departures after a number of years, if what has not been agreed has not come to fruition. Let's just get to work on that, too. And, of course, we're going to follow that very closely. I will come back to that later, because I would like to make some arrangements with you. Let me do that right away, Madam President. I intend to send a progress report every year over the next three years, so that we keep an eye on what is happening. What kind of developments do we see? I saw an amendment by Mr Kwint in which he says: let us do an evaluation after three years. I agree with that in itself, but he has also put eternity in his amendment. Because it's not just about three years, but after that we have to go on and on and on and on. That's really going a little too far right now. I would ask Mr Kwint to make eternity a can-determine. So in three years' time, we'll do an evaluation, after you've also had three progress reports, at the third, with an evaluation. Then let's decide whether we really need to do that again with such a rhythm. Then we also have a lot of experience and a good view of what is going to happen in reality, provided that this bill is passed. I am not going to speculate about other situations, which Mr Kwint asked for. If you change it, as far as I'm concerned, your amendment is Chamber. If you leave it that way, I'll advise him, and I hope there'll be a sub-amendment. Otherwise, I may be able to send him as a letter of amendment myself; that is, of course, another possibility that I have. I understand the desire to have an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u23	If we carry on like this for a while, the Minister's gonna be writing my motions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr President, always at Mr Kwints' service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u25	That's appreciated! I think it's okay to see, after three years, if you get that evaluation, if we need to keep doing this. The reason why I have now put it this way was to keep a little on the pulse with regard to the wider movement in the educational country, so that we still have an insight into how the scale of the foundational education is developing. That way we can see: okay, are those mergers increasing or not? I'm trying to put it as neutral as possible. And do we consider it desirable? But we can do it just fine in the way the Minister suggests, so three times a report, then one evaluation and then see if we want to do it even further. So we can change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u26	Fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u27	So Mr Kwint's amendment is amended and then gets...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u28	...judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u29	...judge Room. Agreed. Mr Heerema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u30	If I understand correctly, a commitment is now being made to monitor or monitor what additional mergers are going to happen. To be honest, I do not find it interesting at all whether there are more or less mergers. It's about the quality of education, isn't it? A merger can be a very good instrument for maintaining education in areas where it may not otherwise be accessible. I do not find it so interesting to keep an eye on how much it occurs, but I do see whether there are any mergers that are less good for education. Will the Minister keep an eye on that, too? Mr Kwint simply wants to monitor the number of mergers, but I find that completely uninteresting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u31	I find it interesting to follow that. That's what we've been doing in the past few years. Then you can watch what happens in numbers. The education inspection also reports on the number of schools and you name it. We must, of course, keep a little bit of an eye on what is going on in the country and what developments are taking place. But I do agree with Mr Heerema that figures alone do not say everything. Moreover, we have a very good view of the country at the moment, also because we are very much working in all those areas in the context of the reduction approach to supporting school management, helping them and providing them with advice. The eyes and ears of the national government, through all kinds of agencies, are very sharp, precisely when it comes to these kinds of things. That is what concerns us very much that we want children to be able to attend education near their homes. In particular, primary education must be able to be followed closer to home than secondary education; we all understand that. We'd really like to keep that up. It is right to say that figures are just one thing. In the end, it is also about what is happening behind those figures. Mr. Chairman. I'm just passing through a few specific questions from a number of spokesmen. Mr Van Meenen has asked questions about the mr and its support. I think I just answered that. It is indeed important to ensure that they are in position. We have had a nice project that further supports the participation councils. I've extended that for another year. We're in the process of making sure that's gonna get picked up again after that. That is what is now being agreed and I will give you that. About reporting. You know there's also money going to the school boards through the lumpsum that needs to be used for the mr. So the mr can call on that in accordance with the article I just mentioned. Mr Van Meenen also pointed out that it is important that the FER, this evaluation, should not take place after a very long time. I just told you to take the appointment that you do it more often. Mr Van Meenen also asked whether there could be other forms of cooperation. Yes, there are. In the note on the report and in the explanatory statement, I mentioned a number of them. One can, for example, shift the support service for the operation. I am talking about the shared service centers, as they are always called so beautiful in bad Dutch. You can also enter into all kinds of collaborations through cooperation agreements, and you can enter into a personal union. These are examples of what we are going to call 'pseudofusions', I say in the direction of Mrs Van den Hul. They are not taking the very big step of a merger, but they are making agreements in all kinds of other ways. Sometimes things are put together from different schools and with different BRIN numbers, which are very difficult to separate later on if you wanted to. Very often, the mr wasn't involved. That's why it's so good to put the mr in that position, so that the competent authority has to involve them and take them with them at the time of taking steps. By doing it above radar, we can remove any obstacles. We are now formally removing the merger test at national level, even though it no longer has any effect in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u32	It is not quite clear to me what the Minister is basing himself on when he says that this also covers the risks to pseudo-fusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u33	The field consultation and the evaluation that has been carried out in recent years, as I have just pointed out, has shown that some of the boards that sometimes wanted to merge for very noble reasons, for example because they wanted to keep other schools on their feet, which have not gone away because of the red tape surrounding it and the unpredictability of the route. That is why we have sometimes opted for other forms of cooperation, which may also be appropriate, which is not necessarily necessary. So we want to leave room to make full use of everything, including the merger, but we would like to be very transparent. Obstacles experienced will then be removed in this way, although I have just indicated that it is a very theoretical issue, because in recent years there has actually been no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u34	Nevertheless, the CFTO warns of the risk of precisely those pseudofusions. So how does the Minister view this warning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u35	I also said goodbye to the CFTO in a very nice way. I've thanked them very much for the work they've done. Because they have done so conscientiously and in a very intensive way. They have put their finger on a number of places, which I believe is right. Firstly, they have said that you must strive for maximum transparency when it comes to the choices you make, even when it comes to further cooperation or fusion of your school. The second is that they also pointed out the position of the mr, who then has to be in a good position to make those choices. In short, they have given a number of profit warnings and it is of course also very nice that they have done so in the sense of: if we are not there anymore, at least take this into account. We have tried to give this a place in our legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerema had asked a question about the great governments and the way we were extra alert to them. I just answered that question. Some boards require that, sometimes due to incidents. By the way, if there is an incident at a particular school, which is subject to greater governance, it does not mean that there is a lot going on in all these other schools. We have examples of this too. But, of course, we will continue to follow that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld has asked questions about the merger compensation scheme. It is good that you will come back to that, because there has indeed been some noise on the line. As of August 2017, we have specified the scheme, I would say almost. For before that time there were situations where the question was whether or not compensation was justified. This was sometimes due to the question of whether students had passed over. There are still a number of court cases on this subject. So it's under the judge. But as of 1 August 2017, we have just mapped out very clearly: if more than 50% of the students pass, 100% compensation for a certain period of time will follow. If there are between 25 and 50 pupils, the compensation will be 100% in the first year and will then be reduced by 20%. And for less than 25 students, money is provided for the facilities of the merger, but not another student compensation. So at the moment, I hear that from the educational field too. The only thing that remains unclear is the situation in the past, before that clarification. We really need to wait and see what the judge's gonna say about that. It may well be that money is going to be recovered there. So this is about the merger compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u36	I would like to thank the Minister for his clarity. I understand that the field is also concerned that there may be further recovery requests. I understand from the Minister that there are a number of legal cases now and that there may still be consequences. Of course, that makes sense when there are lawsuits. But can there be any further recovery requests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u37	Of course, I can't just say no to that, and I can't say no to that. We have set numbers, percentages, and if it turns out that those percentages are not correct, then that may be a reason, perhaps even to give extra money or perhaps to say that you have actually been given too much in accordance with the scheme. But if the discussion is sharp and clear what the agreements are, I say: as of 1 August 2017, that is completely clear. So now that's been two years. We're gonna have to wait and see about the lawsuits. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld, in particular, has put the finger on those risky mergers and if that national fails to do so. I hope that I have been able to convince you in my reply, also looking at the practice, that in recent years there have been simply no more cases at national level. This did not happen even during the period when a heavy test was taken. The debate on "risky" is particularly frequent when the scale increases. We have said in the past that 50% really is a sort of border and that we do not want anything that comes up there. The Council of State has said that it cannot do so; even if it is above it, you must simply offer room for everything else. With this law, the situation as we propose will not be very different in that respect. Another thing is that when there is a great deal of discussion about whether this is a good thing in areas where we are going to merge, it is all the more important that we use the instruments that we have. I have just indicated to you that the fusion impact assessment also comes with an opinion from the College of B and W. So the local government can also watch and give its opinion. That is very important information in the hands of the participation council to consider when risks may be seen by outsiders. That may be all the more reason to apply for external advice, for which they will be reimbursed. In short, I think we have completely secured it in the instruments. We will, of course, have to follow in practice how the instruments are ultimately handled. But that is no different in the new situation than in the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u38	Is the Minister going to go further into the amendments or is this the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u39	In the amendment you have tabled, you say that the participation council must be involved from the outset. I agree with that, but it is a strange figure to settle it in an amendment. It could be, I say in all honesty. But it's just locked up in the fact that the co-proclaiming council is in a position to give a final judgment. This point also arises from the case law surrounding the Disputes Committee: 'you as competent authority should simply involve them'. Just as practical reasoning: if you don't, then you're just really stupid as a driver, because then you get the lid on your nose. For there is no sign at the cross, I say again to Mr Kwint. People think for themselves. So if you weren't involved, you'd be crazy to agree to an opinion. Since it's such a strange figure to include it in a law, I'm a little reluctant to give the judgment Chamber. It is not necessary, so in some sense the amendment is superfluous. Let me put it this way. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. If the amendment is not adopted, the situation will not be much different, because we simply have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u40	I'm pretty happy with the Minister's answer. Perhaps another point that makes it a little clearer why we have tabled the amendment. Of course, if you have the right of assent, it is in the best interest of the driver and also of the participation itself that you talk and think about from the start. In practice, the only thing you can see from the evaluation of a number of years ago is that this is not always happening. That is why we say: make it clear in the law that it is precisely with such a large decision as a merger that it is necessary to talk about participation from the outset, to sit at the table and to facilitate the discussion in practice, not on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u41	Again, you can lay it down in the law. On the other hand, whose problem is it eventually if you don't do it right? That is the problem of those who are developing the plans, isn't it? They get the lid on the nose. If you incorporate it into the law in this way, you will be able to have a full discussion about what is timely. What's timely? If a competent authority is still thinking about plans and does not want to cause a lot of unrest, but only with mature plans to his will to provide complete clarity on the way one wants to go, perhaps it may take a few months before the mr first sees the plans. Is that contrary to your amendment, if that had been brought into the law? I hope that is not going to be a very legal issue. So it's possible. He's kind of a weird guy. I really don't need it. What I'm saying here is also part of the history of law. That can also be read. But I shall leave it up to the political groups to consider it. If the amendment does not succeed, you know that it should be done in this way. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to stress once again to Mrs Westerveld that we are not just throwing everything overboard with this bill, but that we are providing support for the basics. I know that GroenLinks has looked up a lot of that base over the past two years, because they felt that they were too little in sight; your political leader's canteen tour is an example of that, I think. This is the basis that we put in full position, and we give it confidence. We have also given them sufficient legal guarantees and instruments to fulfil their position. The practice now shows that this country has actually had no effect for many years, even under the heavy test. I therefore hope that you will look again at your final assessment of this bill. Mr. responsibilities remain; they have been there since 2007. If we are not going to do this, a number of other things will fall away for them too, which I do not think makes it very easy for them to be in a position to do their job on this subject properly. And that's just going to happen. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld has also asked what the ideal school size is and whether studies have been carried out. Quite a lot has been written about that, also by people who have on their cards that they are researchers. But that is, of course, a very difficult discussion to have, because it also depends on what kind of area we are talking about, what kind of people are involved, how they set it up and what the consequences are if, for example, they do not increase the scale. That could be disastrous in one area and not a problem in another. There it might be easier to stay a little smaller, while in the other area it is a big problem. So it depends very much on what you zoom in on. If it's big, it doesn't mean it's bad. That's what it has to do with in the end. But I've said something about that before. It is important to ensure freedom of choice and accessibility. Sometimes it has to be under the control of great rule. Mr. Chairman. I have already answered many of his questions to Mr Kwint...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u42	Before you proceed, Mrs Westerveld has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u43	Yeah, because a few things aren't quite clear to me yet. I would like to present a case to the Minister. Suppose, for example, the board of LVO wants to expand even further, that they also want a school in Maastricht or a piece of Brabant. So what can be done now to stop something like that, which we will probably all say here "that's undesirable"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u44	That is a very good example, because there are also movements in that group of schools, where we also want to achieve an institutional merger. That's what the mr of both schools said: we're not gonna do that. So it works, even there. So you have set a good example. The mr of both schools says, "We're not gonna do that." They're gonna stop that. I think it is very important that we have the powers at that level to raise the red sign. And so can one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u45	Of course, I very much agree with the Minister that it is very good that the Mr has and can also intervene. But of course there are also situations in which the mr cannot or does not do so at the time, for example because teachers fear that their jobs will be compromised if they are critical of the board. Then the question is: what should happen? Because then you have to deal with a situation in which in this case teachers in the participation council are difficult to change. Shouldn't there be an extra check, for example by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u46	Now we are having a very difficult discussion, because you are actually implying that the people who have been given the legal responsibilities there to stop or not to stop something do not do so, because they may be afraid of losing their jobs. But then we'll nationalize everything. Because that will also apply to the power of assent in relation to finance. We have said in many other places: we want it to happen on the ground. Your party, I just gave it to the people. You said the silent engine, which keeps the country running. Now you say: that silent bike, the people who keep the country running, do not do what they should actually do because they are afraid of losing their jobs. If I'm being completely honest, I can't deal with that. I have that confidence. They're not alone in it. It's not just the teachers. There's parents in there, too. There's students. One can call in external advisors. Through the fusion impact assessment there is even an opinion from the College of B and W. So I think the checks-and-balances are also present in that, even though there may be people among them as you characterize them. But, yeah, those aren't usually the people who sit in a mr, so I know from my own experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mrs Westerveld, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Now the Minister is ridiculing my example very much. Of course, people in the mr can sometimes be afraid that their jobs depend on something and then it is difficult to criticize a board. We know this from previous examples of schools where things did not go very well. My example is precisely because the question is whether there should not be another external check. It's gonna disappear soon. And that's what matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u49	That external check, it's done carefully, and it's all right? Mr. O'Brien may be summoned by going to the Disputes Committee. There is. At the moment a mr hesitates and has doubts, he can always call in the dispute committee. One can go there. That's just what I said: nationally we're keeping one more thing going, and that's the Disputes Commission. Maybe that's the valve you're looking for. That is indeed still part of the whole process. I'm sorry if I've ridiculed it a little bit, but it'll come from the inside. You are the queen of the mr! You have made yourself so strong for that mr in recent years, and in one sentence it is gone; I would find that sinful. You really need to keep that up. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Kwint. I have already answered many of Mr Kwint's questions. I hope he will weigh those answers in the final judgment he gives. Mr Kwint has indicated that the segregation story has been somewhat included. I don't like the terms "white schools" and "black schools," but if I just call them, I don't have to say much more. That's a situation that can arise. Or a school is very strong and has more possibilities for several reasons: that has grown historically or it is because of the people sitting there. Other schools are a little more vulnerable. You can always do that; you don't have to. Article 23 has to do with the fact that, in general, the competent authority is responsible for the school, as is the case with our Constitution. You cannot leave the school unilaterally around the competent authority, which is also under its legal responsibility. No more and no less. I'm not gonna make that a school fight, because that's not the issue here at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u50	No, I'll leave that of the competent authority in Article 23 for a moment. The Minister says 'I don't have to say much more', but I'm afraid we won't get out of it. I just don't know what he means. A school can step out of the school dome. I'm just saying that for the millions of people who are watching at home. That's what we were talking about. In this context, it is said that this can lead to segregation. I really don't understand where the latter is. I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u51	You explain "segregation" so that people don't meet at the same school. That is indeed a form of segregation; at least that is possible. We're talking about a merger test and a whole group of schools. This is more about the fact that there are various types of schools in it. Mr Van Meenen has put that in an interruption in a very nice way. A board has a responsibility for that group. Once again, I don't use the word very often. I put it in quotes, but we do know what this is about: there could also be a "black school." Maybe that's a little vulnerable school because the population sometimes calls for more. In fact, great work is done in these schools, but they sometimes need a little more funding, which can be taken out of the larger picture. Because that's how you treat each other, also out of solidarity. The driver makes choices about that. Then there's another school where maybe some money is taken away because it's a little stronger and has a little more potential. And then people say, "Well, wait a minute, we're not gonna do that, we all want that money for ourselves because we're entitled to that; you know that that's a word that falls very often in our country. Especially if your amendment is adopted, we can simply decide to leave the school group. Well, that obviously has consequences for that school that has an extra difficult population and needs more support. You wouldn't want that, would you? Isn't that a form of segregation that will be strengthened? 'Cause maybe that school's gonna go down, too. And we also want those students to receive good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u52	I think this is a rather creative application of the term "segregation." Segregation is really about the population within a school for me, and now it is about the composition of educational institutions within a dome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u53	That's exactly what it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u54	Then we have a different definition of that. That's okay. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u55	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u56	The mr gets approval on the budget. That has yet to be done. It can say: we simply want the money we are entitled to. That doesn't take the threat of getting out of a dome, does it? More fundamentally, the task is to finance pupils at risk of educational disadvantage. Isn't that the primary responsibility of the government? I'm glad it's happening, don't get me wrong, but we don't want to make it dependent on a school board that scrapes a little bit away from the other schools here and there hoping to invest some more in that other school?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u57	Because such a school board has a certain mass, it also has a certain financial mass. Such a school board can, on the basis of what it has in mind, see which schools might need a little extra and which schools might be able to come out with a little less. Those choices are made and indeed the mr is involved, but those kinds of situations just happen. If your amendment is adopted, a Mr can decide unilaterally to step out of it. That could break the balance sheet that is present in the school group, even in the financial sense. Quite apart from the question that you can never do that outside of the competent authority, I find that undesirable, because that could have serious consequences. And we do not want that, because we very much want education to continue to be well offered everywhere and that if we want to get out of it, it will be done in an orderly manner. Mrs van den Hul has asked a number of questions that I have already addressed about locks that would be opened and about pseudo-fusions. She also asked what problem we were solving. I have indicated that there are a number of sides to this medal. One of them is that it is indeed experienced as an obstacle. You may wonder if this has really been the case in recent years, but that was the case in the field consultation and the evaluation. The other side is that, just taking a second look at the practice, we see that not much has actually happened at national level and, more importantly, nothing has actually happened in recent years. It is therefore a question of whether you still have to do so. But in the end, for me, the decisive factor is that we have also worked on this in the years before, and this law has also been very helpful in putting the local communities in a position, including the mr and everything around it, and that this is just working well and as far as we are concerned, the future is because we think that horizontal accountability is so important to each other. I also seem to recall that the Labour Party has always been in favour of us organizing and putting it in those places where we can. Mr Rog asked a question about the inspection and the size of the school boards. I think I've already answered that. I repeat here that the new way of monitoring, starting with the driver, is already a huge improvement. Then you can also see if they have a view of their schools, because it will also be tested afterwards. But also large boards are kept extra under surveillance because there may be a vulnerability in that too. I have already given you your amendment, Chamber. Finally, he talked about the human dimension. It might be good to end up with that. They are wonderful words, which always fall around a discussion about a merger test. We also indicated at the time that we thought the human dimension was important, even when we started the fusion test in the old form. But with the fusion test as it will be at the local level, the human measure belongs. It is also part of the fusion impact assessment that attention should be paid to this. I am also convinced that the advisory role given to the College of B and W can play a role in this, because, of course, they also have a local responsibility to provide advice on this. So that's still important. The most important thing remains, and these are my final words in the first term, that we very much want education to be offered everywhere in the country, that it is near where the students have their home situation, that it has quality and that it is accessible. This law can be a very good part of that. And my last words are in the direction of Mr Van Meenen. He indicated that he has a very sweet wife. I can only confirm that on my part, because I once met her. I know he's going to see her now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u58	I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. I note that a second amendment has been tabled by Mr Kwint. Is that right? It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 10. The Minister has not yet given an opinion on this, but this can be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u59	I have assessed both amendments. I did not recommend the amendment that was about the mr and leaving a school group directly, without involving the competent authority. In the other amendment, I indicated that if he wants to amend that amendment, and he has promised to do so, then it is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u60	Clear, but that in turn leads to a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u61	No, not that. The Minister's opinion on the two amendments was crystal clear, but there is a third amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u62	There's a third?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u63	Yeah, it's about collecting the fusion impact assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u64	Exactly, the amendment in part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u65	Yeah, exactly. I'll give it to the minister right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u66	Clear. Then Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr President, I have an addition to what the Minister ended up with. It is, of course, very nice that he also likes my wife, and I think so too, but that would be a curious remark in itself if it were not put in the perspective of the fact that I have to leave now, because she is saying goodbye at her school and I would like to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u68	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u69	Otherwise, only the image that the Minister thinks my wife is very sweet will linger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u70	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u71	Well, that's a fine image in itself. There's nothing wrong with that, but then you know why he said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u72	I wish you a lot of fun this afternoon. I shall suspend for three minutes and then proceed with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u73	I support all the motions that will be tabled shortly. At least I support the tabling of all the motions tabled by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u74	That sounds good! Then maybe they'll make a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u75	I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks in this second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers to our questions. A large number of questions from us have given us a little more clarity. But what is still unclear for my group is why this merger test is being abolished. Or actually that merger check, as we called it, because it's not really a test anymore. It's just a final check by the minister on how the trial went. We're not convinced. This is mainly due to the fact that over the last few years we have seen a number of examples of very large authorities in education, where things have not always been good. We also have a motion on this scale, because I understand very well that the Minister says that the ideal scale depends not only on the number of schools or on the number of pupils, but also on the region, for example. I understand that. That is what we have the next motion for a resolution on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that education has had a significant increase in scale in recent decades;]] [[Whereas scaling up may in some cases bring results, e.g. in shrinking areas;]] [[Whereas, in the case of economies of scale, drivers and supervisors may lose links with education, teachers and pupils;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify advantages and disadvantages of different scale levels in education, taking into account human size, good governance and regional factors;]] [[calls on the Government to develop framework conditions and possible policy measures to ensure possible risks of increased scale,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35104-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u77	One final comment on the role of participation. I am pleased that the Minister, in his own contribution and in his answers, stresses the importance of having this conversation, that it is not just about formal rights, such as a right of assent, and that it is important for the very basis of acceptance to always have good consultation with parents, pupils and teachers. I am very glad that this awareness is getting more and more in the Chamber. I am also very curious to see what the other parliamentary groups are going to do with the various amendments that have been tabled in order to continue to encourage this role of participation and that good discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u78	Thank you. I call Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u79	For my part, too, thank you for the Minister's answers. It wasn't a big deal today that we were gonna find each other in the middle; I don't think that's gonna happen either. I do not doubt the Minister's intentions and his firm belief that it is also well arranged in this way. We're just making a different trade-off than he's making. Between the rules by "Just" that applies not only to the Minister, but to a large part of the Chamber "Just" you hear that the discomfort about scaling up education increases and that more people see problems with it. Of course there are all kinds of comments to make and scale is only never an explanatory factor for whether a school is good or bad. But it can contribute to it. We are still not convinced of the need to remove a merger test altogether. If we are all so convinced of small-scale education, a better and perhaps more rigorous test is what was desired in the past. If we want to make serious work of smaller domes of education, where the human dimension is more central, wouldn't that have been a much more logical step? We are still not convinced of how the removal of this merger test will ultimately make cooperation between schools more possible. I also talked to Mr Heerema about this: there is a difference between cooperation and merger. And indeed, at the time of the merger, such a merger test provides extra work. Our group does not mind. A merger is a major decision. Of course, you have to see if you can do that in as little as possible incriminating way. But I would prefer that a school board should have a few more weeks of extra time to get the necessary data for a merger test and finally submit it, rather than that that data doesn't have to come up at all. And just at a time when we decide to look more critically at larger education frameworks and to make the inspection more critical of the role that can play in the quality of education, we simply do not think this is a wise decision. When we talk soon about the bill More room for new schools, which the Minister believes may also mean less room for new schools, we will also talk further about, for example, the possibility of stepping out of a school dome and how we can facilitate this in a broader sense. Because, I would add, participation is extremely important. Participation has a major role to play in this type of decision. But pretending, for example, that intimidation will never play a role in the decisions of participation is in any case not in accordance with the experience I have heard, also of co-determination members themselves. There is, and that is something we have to bear in mind. Apart from that, but we will have it there next week, the parent-level clause in participation is by definition variable, because there are few parents who stay in participation when their child is gone. So as a parent you can often find a situation that you were not involved in at the time. We are now making the final condition of defuse, stepping out of a dome, depending on arrangements made by parents whose children may already be away from school. As a result, parents who later step into the mr cannot rely on appointments they made themselves, for the simple reason that they did not make those appointments. Their kids weren't in school at the time. The Minister will therefore not be surprised that I will leave that amendment. I would just like to make a brief comment to clarify the last amendment I tabled. That actually served as a complement to the evaluation. How can we properly evaluate this law? This can be done if we also have information on the number of mergers, including the corresponding fusion impact assessments. I hope that the Minister is right, that I am wrong and that it will not go wrong, but if it turns out that it has gone wrong, then we can see for ourselves what has gone wrong in these mutual agreements and we can make a good judgement on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you. Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked you before, what kind of problem are we going to solve with this amendment of the law? I must say quite frankly that I still do not have that answer quite clearly on the retina. Like the two previous speakers, we are not convinced of the need to abolish the merger test, for reasons which I believe we have already explained in detail. The Minister has put his hopes on the horizontal accountability. He says it's put in position to the maximum. Of course, that's very good. I don't think anyone in this room can argue with that. But we still believe that, in addition to this horizontal responsibility, it would be very good for the Minister to maintain that merger test on his own responsibility. Then there is the risk of so-called pseudofusions. In order to dry out that possible detour, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that school boards in some cases to avoid the merger test are seeking a solution in alternative forms of cooperation, such as a personal union, a holding company or a cooperative;]] [[Whereas this may involve pseudo-fusion, where the guarantee of parental participation by pupils and (education) staff is lacking;]] [[Considers that pupils, parents and teachers should be sure of a human dimension in education;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the regulatory framework so that, even in the event of such a pseudo-fusion, a certain fusion impact assessment and participation of the (G)MR is required,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35104-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u82	Finally, Mr Rog of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that the Minister has made it clear in a good way that, with the abolition of this merger test, there is still a careful process if a school board wants to merge. I am also pleased that the Minister has indicated that precisely this human dimension remains the subject of the evaluation of the fusion impact assessment and that the position of the participation council will also be further strengthened. My amendment, which I was able to table together with D66, will strengthen that position further and more emphatically. That is why I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Rog. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we will listen to the Minister in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u85	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second term. There are a few more questions, first of all from Mrs Westerveld, who indicated that in recent years she had seen examples that made her doubt whether or not she should support the bill. Of course, you'll have to make that assessment yourself. I have indicated that nothing has happened since 2015 because of this law and the things we are getting out of it. I don't know what was "the last few years" for you, but at least from 2015 until now we haven't seen things that this law had to do anything about. That wasn't the case. I have also indicated that in the period before that, so from 2011 to 2015, something was submitted 219 times to what we had organised at national level and what is now going to be deleted, that 16 things remained in the sieve, that eight of those 16 things eventually took place and that eight were stopped. I'm really trying to see it in proportion myself. We have seen that in recent years nothing changes. If we continue with this law, it will not be much different at the level at which it functioned. The other side of the story is that with the law and, if necessary, with the adjustments and amendments made by the Chamber itself, we are further strengthening the horizontal accountability. If we didn't do that and this law didn't go through, that would mean there isn't. A mr's obligation to consent to a merger will then remain valid, but they will not receive a number of additional instruments that they can now obtain. I think you should also consider whether you think it's worth it. You have a motion in which you use words like "expanded scaling." I have just indicated that we must also keep an eye on whether or not it is the reality that we see in the country. Let's stick to scaling up. You are asking me to identify the advantages and disadvantages thereof and to take into account the human dimension, good governance and regional factors. There are already a number of studies in this area. I'd be willing to do this part. In my view, however, it is still a step too far to formulate framework conditions and policy measures as stated in your next operative part, even though the word 'possible' stands for them. The fact that we are discussing the scale is also in line with what Mr Heerema has said: it is not about the figures, it is about what is happening behind them. That is a very good and sensible discussion in itself, but I would like to limit it to that. I'm willing to provide you with material for that, but I don't want to go beyond that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u87	Then we will remove the second operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u88	Then, as far as I am concerned, this motion can be given Chamber's judgment, because it is good to talk to each other about the scale and what is happening in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u89	So let me get this straight: Mrs Westerveld amends her motion and removes the second part of the operative part, and then this motion can get judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u90	And she has heard my comment on the use of words like'screwed'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u91	Let me get this straight. The verdict has been dissuaded as long as that second operative part is in it. But if the modified version comes in without the second operative part, then the verdict becomes Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u92	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u93	Yes. I think that this also meets Mr Heerema, who indicated that we are only talking about the figures. Indeed, behind these figures are realities. That's what we've been looking at. It also looks at what is happening in parts of the country and what its effects are. There's no harm in going over that again. In fact, I think that the nuance comes back to the debate a little more. As we sometimes talk about it now and then, it's a little bit about reality. We have to be careful of that. Then Mr. Kwint. He has tabled another amendment which, as far as I am concerned, is not necessary. We're gonna monitor; that's what I've been telling you. There's gonna be an evaluation. Let us know how this evaluation is to be carried out. Of course, it goes without saying that we are making use of what is being done in the country. Any board that merges is obliged to keep the documents accompanying them at the school for 10 years. That's what legislation is for. So those documents can be requested and used in the evaluation. It really seems to me a little too much of the right thing to do now with amendment. In that case, a separate provision must be put in place, so to speak, which only costs money. I don't think that's your intention either. So it stays in storage and cannot be discarded. There is even a legal obligation for archiving that applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u94	For the sake of clarity, this is the amendment on item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u95	Yeah, I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u96	It's not recommended. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u97	I should have read the Archive Act in advance. We withdraw the amendment. If it is not necessary because the documents remain available, also for the evaluation, then there is no reason to cycle it in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u98	The quint amendment (Doc. 10) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I had hoped that I would meet Mr Kwint in the middle, but I understand from what he said that he did not succeed. I very much regret that, because I do not think there is any difference of opinion at all as to what we stand for and what we want. The question is whether the law currently in force, including what is happening at national level, has any effect on what is happening in the country. I have indicated that this has not been the case in recent years, that it simply works well at local level and that we are further strengthening it. Even the opt-out will be possible through this law if one of the amendments is adopted. All this is also lost when the law in full would not reach the finish line, which I do not assume, because I think it is a good law. I'm asking you to take a look at that after all. You indicate that we might as well have chosen a stricter test. We could have, but we didn't. However, I have not seen any amendments from you to the effect that you would have liked to bring it into this law. So you didn't choose it either. That is also your right; each makes his own choices. I do not think it is necessary to further strengthen the national level, because even when the stricter test was there in the two years before 2017, no merger was stopped on the basis of the structure we had created with the 2011 law. So we must also be a little careful to talk about a reality that was not there at all and which had not arisen at the time when we had kept the law up or put a heavier test in it. Anyway, that's your consideration. Mrs van den Hul still has the question of what we are actually doing. I can explain it again, but I really tried to be clear. It can only be a weighting that you say: I would like to keep the national part, even though it has not done anything in recent years. Well, that's a choice. If we say that we want to put it in a completely local position, you can say that I think all this is very important, but I also want to have something at national level. Okay, that's a trade-off. It's up to you in the end. With regard to the pseudo-fusions and the motion by Mrs van den Hul on that point, I would ask that they be retained for the following reason. First of all, there is an advisory obligation. The participation council has an advisory right, not a right of assent, when it comes to forms of cooperation other than a merger. There's a right of consent for that. The second is that at the moment there is also an investigation into some larger administrative structures. That's gonna be in this calendar year. It may also contain information to check with each other which structures have arisen in the country over time. Then we can also face the question of whether it is necessary to give the participation council even more than it now has in order to be able to give its opinion. I would therefore ask you to hold the motion until that evaluation is carried out. This is an inventory of administrative structures that occur in the foundational education. Maybe it's a good thing I read it to you. An investigation was carried out in 2016 and now another study is due to be completed by the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u100	Fine. Then we will indeed keep an eye on that and hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u101	At the request of Mrs van den Hul, I propose her motion (35104, No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have noted with appreciation Mr Rog's second term. I hope that many will follow his example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u103	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his reply and for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u104	The law, the amendments tabled and the motion will be voted on next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 3.45 p.m.
