ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the own-initiative proposal 34506, the proposal of the Kuiken Act introducing a duty of care to prevent the supply of goods and services produced by child labour, i.e. the Child Labour Duty Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is my honour and pleasure to be back here almost a year and a half later to be able to defend my colleague Roelof van Laar's original proposal on behalf of the PvdA. I would first like to outline what subjects I shall deal with. It also concerns a multitude of questions. First of all, I will deal with the reasons why there has been so much time between the first treatment and the second treatment. I would also like to address the purpose and scope of the legislative proposal, the relationship with the IVO agreements, the progress of the IVO agreements, the lessons that we can learn from other countries, the questions of due diligence, enforcement, monitoring, the burden on businesses and the entry into force. I would like to thank all Members for their questions and comments and the careful manner in which this Chamber deals with this bill. I understand very well that it is extremely annoying that we have had to wait so long for the progress and continuation of this treatment. I would therefore like to thank the Chamber for the extra time I have been given. The main reason for me to ask for extra time and suspension at the time was my assumption that we could expect an evaluation of the existing import agreements this year. At the time, several members indicated that it was extremely important to be able to include this evaluation in the processing of the AMvBs. That's where I wanted to meet the Chamber. We know by now that it will be a while before the improv agreements arrive. The Chamber has rightly indicated that there will be a time when we will have to proceed with the examination of the legislative proposal. That moment is now. That's why I'm not gonna look back, but I'm gonna look at how we're dealing with this. I think we have found a solution to this. I'll take the Chamber later. I understand that a number of Members, including Mrs Vlietstra, but also Mr Ester, have indicated that they consider this to be a difficult process to digest. However, time has not stopped, because there are a number of reports and developments that we want and can take advantage of in this legislative proposal. I would now like to comment on the substance of the questions put by the Chamber. First, the purpose of the bill. This is to ensure that consumers can assume that goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies that are reasonably willing to do everything possible to prevent their products and services from being produced using child labour. They have a so-called duty to do so. The second objective is that it raises the ground and creates a level playing field for companies that are already pursuing this through the way in which they operate, through participation in the covenants. A number of Members have asked why only child labour was chosen and not for a broader framework. I have already indicated in the Chamber that we have opted for child labour because the definitions are clear and the detection is easier than with other imvo risks. That's the way a child under the age of 13 should never work. Forced labour is about involuntary and threatened with punishment. If we had added that subject.................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, those were questions from this Chamber............................................................................................................................................................. In the direction of Mr Van Dijk, I note that this legislative proposal does not prevent other legislation. I understand the concern. He's right, too. Mr Van Dijk first stated that the Minister had indicated that he would like to move towards broader legislation. We still share that objective, and we have that wish, but we would like to take a first step now. Based on the experience with this bill, you can then take further steps. The AMvBs also offer space for this. That brings us to Mrs Stienen's starting point. She was right to put forward the dilemma of waiting or going forward. As far as we are concerned, this legislative proposal is a first step in the right direction, but many questions and concerns have rightly been raised. I would like to begin with the first concern: how do the Ivo agreements relate to our initiative proposal? Mrs Stienen, Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Vlietstra, Mr Ester and Mrs Lokin explicitly asked for this. Let me be very clear. That is also what I said in my letter: as far as I am concerned, the legislative proposal is in line with the Ivo agreements and vice versa. In other words, this bill strengthens the imvo agreements. Companies that already work with import agreements or companies that are going to work with import agreements in the coming years comply with the duty of care that we ask for in our legislative proposal. They fulfil their duty of care with the current imvo approach. This law therefore offers the opportunity to start with a level playing field, a race up instead of down, and responds to the call of a large number of companies and the CSR Platform to take further steps now. I know that not everyone is immediately enthusiastic and that there are concerns. That is why I think it is important to make this point so emphatically. It's an extension of each other. It does not undermine each other, nor does it undermine all the efforts made over the past ten years by the ESC, and all the initiatives taken in the meantime. I say to the textile industry that I understand the concerns, especially when a lot of people are yelling that you need to do more now than you already did, when you are already a frontrunner and a frontrunner. Then, of course, at some point, you ask yourself why you have to do more. My message to the same textile industry is that I am very proud of that sector, because it has stuck its neck out, that sector is the frontrunner. This does not delay the textile industry's efforts, but rather supports them, because more companies, more industries, will follow suit. In view of this concern, however, it would be wise to involve the textile sector in the further development of the agreements, so as to reflect the way in which the textile sector is keen to see this completed. In this context, Mr Ester asked if we had had any contact with other parties to the agreement. Have they expressed the same concern? Do they think we should stand on the brakes? On the contrary, they have encouraged us to continue. They didn't express the same concerns. A number of companies have actively supported the bill. I would like to mention, among other things, Arte, Auping, Plus, Rabobank, I'm sorry to be advertising in this house right now, assn bank, Aegon and, of course, Tony's Chocolonely, not the least companies I'd like to say. As far as I am concerned, finalising on this point, the legislative proposal does not affect the IVO agreements, it strengthens each other and is mutually exclusive. Anyone who participates in an imvo agreement will comply with our bill on the duty of care, will have the strength of the lead and will have nothing to do with it. That leaves, of course, the question of whether the proposal for an initiative is necessary. Many members of your Chamber have asked the same question, Mr President. Has not enough progress been made by means of the import agreements themselves? After all, many companies are already well on their way. Then why this bill? We still have to wait for the final evaluation, but I think I can already say something about the progress of the import agreements as they are now. With that, I'll take you into history for a short while. In 2008, the ESC presented a CSR statement, which all social partners supported. In 2011 the OECD guidelines will be revised and in 2013 a sector analysis will be commissioned by the Dutch government, as it is seen that the necessary steps are not yet being taken in a large number of sectors. The disaster in Bangladesh with a clothing factory is the direct cause for this. Today we know that about seven of the 13 sectors originally referred to are actually active within such a covenant. By agreement, participation varies, but we see that far from all intentions have been met when it comes to the number of agreements and that not all companies participate. We therefore see from the mid-term published robust mid-term evaluation that progress within the covenants varies greatly. As I said, the textile agreement is by far the most successful agreement, not in the first place because it is the oldest and first, but also because it had the clearest cause, namely the collapse of the factory building in Rana Plaza in Bangladesh, in which 1,100 people died. This covenant is very successful and offers important steps forward. This is thanks in particular to the inter-branch organisations involved, which are working hard on it. I can only offer compliments for that. Mrs Lokin-Sassen had another question about the participation of textile companies. If I have created confusion about this, I apologize. These are 92 brands participating in the textile agreement. That is a very positive result. At the same time, only a few hundred companies are now participating in agreements, on the one and a half million companies that count in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, not all sectors are so keen to apply the OECD guidelines and due diligence. This also brings me, as an example, to the Parliament last week's report of the National Contact Point for the OECD Guidelines on research into the application of due diligence by the oil and gas sector. I don't know if you, as the First Chamber, have been able to take note of this report as well. It is an investigation, ordered by the cabinet itself, because it was thought that there were not enough results and that there would be abuses in the oil and gas sector. That was the request of the Lower House and the Cabinet responded to that request. That investigation was initiated in 2016. If I'm not mistaken, the report was sent to our Chamber on April 17th. That's right. The study shows a number of remarkable points, which underline to us the importance of our legislative initiative proposal. The National Contact Point indicates: companies find it difficult to assume their individual responsibility to endorse the guidelines and act in accordance with the guidelines, as long as other companies do not do so. That's a pretty important signal, all the more so because you realize that not half of the companies requested have participated in the investigation. They didn't want to. A monitoring of the National Contact Point is voluntary; you are not obliged to do so. So if you don't cooperate, you're not under a complaint mechanism, there can be no mediation and there is no enforcement. The National Contact Point has therefore asked the Cabinet to encourage the sector to come up with agreements. However, since I see that half of the companies asked for in the investigation did not cooperate, I do not have very much confidence that all the remaining companies will do so voluntarily. That is one of the reasons why I am convinced that our bill, in order to raise the ground, is really necessary. But there's more. In addition to this research and the first results we have, PricewaterhouseCoopers has also conducted an investigation commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Overbeek, Mrs Strienen and Mr Ester, among others, asked for this. This study makes it clear that there is a need for a clearer definition of exactly what governments and the OECD expect from companies and that the policy instruments that are included are ideally developed in a multi-stakeholder context... Sorry about the jargon. These are two important elements which are reflected in the way in which we have designed and intend to secure our legislative initiative. For precisely these reasons, we aim to provide a more detailed explanation of the proper care within the AMvB with all those involved, so that you can fill that out in a good way. I would like to point out that all those involved are also keen to show their willingness to work together in this area. I'll say a little more about that later. I have argued that the import agreements and our initiative proposal are mutually exclusive. I have argued that, despite the fact that we do not have the final evaluations, we already have some strong signals that the progress of imvo alone is insufficient. There's PricewaterhaouseCoopers' report. There is the letter sent to our Chamber by the cabinet itself on 17 April. There are a number of mid-term evaluations. That makes me think that progress will not be achieved on the basis of agreements alone. As a result, Mrs Strienen asked us: explain this to us again on the basis of the theory of change, or in other words, the theory of change. Does this fit in? Actually, PricewaterhouseCoopers' report reveals this very nicely. Indeed, there is great ignorance among companies about the OECD guidelines. They don't know what's expected of them. They don't know what proper care is. That doesn't mean that change will come on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u4	The report referred to by Mrs Kuik concerned not only agreements, but also tough legislation, including the legislation of Paris. So I do not know exactly what you are getting out of that, but there was still a great deal of uncertainty with regard to this hard legislation. I just wanted to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u5	Thank you very much for this explanation. That also means that you have to record that proper care in AMvBs and that you do so together with the sector. I mentioned the textile sector, but that's what you have to do with other companies and governments. Furthermore, I mention the MVO Platform, which has also indicated that it is very passionate to support this bill, but also wants to think about its implementation. I am also thinking of the Economic and Social Committee, because it has built up outstanding expertise on the functioning of imvo, but it can also serve the interests of both the government and the business community well. Of course, we have to go for legislation that works, but what PricewaterhouseCoopers does say, in response to your legitimate question, is that that need for clarity is necessary and that you should not just leave it to goodwill, because it does not create clarity and it is too easy for those who are left behind to stay behind. I was in the process of answering the questions put by Mrs Strienen. As I said, companies do not yet know enough. They also don't know how to apply due care, but what's another complicating factor when it comes to child labour is that as a company you don't want to be associated with child labour. Sustainability, you'd like to do something about that. Fighting corruption, as a company, you want to make a share of it. But admit that you haven't been careful in the fight against child labour so far in your chain? In fact, a number of companies, which were leading the way, were getting turned upside down faster than other companies that remained on their hands. That makes a change not come about on its own. You're gonna have to do something for that. In the end, if you want to offer as much security as possible to consumers so that they can assume that a product or service is sold by a company that has done everything within its ability to prevent child labour, you will have to require companies to take care of how they operate within their chains. Does that mean they can rule everything out? No. Can we force them to take on that duty of care? Yes. That's exactly what we want to try with this change. Then again the question remains: do you assume that everything will lead to progress? Or do you have to force progress by pushing them? Mr. Chairman. Among other things, Mrs Stienen asked what lessons we could draw from initiatives abroad. I try to be as complete as possible and speak slowly. It's a tough subject, but it does require precision. All the initiatives that exist at European level have one thing in common: they are based on the OECD guidelines and the appropriate care that is required in them. British and French laws are primarily aimed at transparency. For example, British law does not determine what companies should do. A better example of this law is the 2010 British Bribery Act, which focuses on combating corruption. The starting point of this law is that companies cannot be held responsible for corruption, but that they are expected to have their anti-corruption policies in place. That is the same comparison as we know it with our duty to care for child labour. You can never give a 100% guarantee that they can't do that either in British law, but they are expected to have their anti-corruption policy in order. Experience with this teaches us that once the law came into force and companies knew they had to make policies, that went very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u6	Mrs. Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u7	May I finish my last sentence, Mr. Chairman? That might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u8	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u9	After four years, it appeared that around two thirds of UK SMEs were aware of the law and requirements and that more than half of them had put their anti-corruption policies in place. This example, which, of course, is never entirely applicable to Dutch legislation, shows that policies and legislation have actually helped, including in complex issues such as anti-corruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u10	I do not know of the British law that Mrs Kuik brings forward here, but I do know of the other two laws mentioned in the PricewaterhouseCoopers report. Both, both French and British anti-slavery laws, concerned standards for large-scale multinationals, which could be considered to address such complex problems. The law before us applies not only to large multinationals, but also to all companies and also to small self-employed persons. I think that's a big problem. It's actually not a question, it's more of a comment or a supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u11	Mrs Lokin-Sassen is absolutely right. That is true when it comes to the French legislation to which it refers. I personally think that this is a shortcoming, because I believe that medium-sized enterprises can also be reminded of their responsibility. At the same time, we have said in our legislative proposal: look at the size of companies that can still assume that responsibility. We have also said that it is more difficult for small businesses, but that is why they can work together in an imvo-convenant context. Then you don't have to experience that small scale as a threshold anymore, as an obstacle, but you can move up and join other companies. We have, of course, recognised that. Mrs Lokin is right to make a point, but we have really taken that into account in the run-up to our legislative proposal. To sum up, you can work with other companies in your covenant and exceptions can be made where necessary or desirable to do justice to them. I have already mentioned the anti-corruption policy. This includes SMEs and not just the top 100 multinational companies. Mr. Chairman. As I said, more than half of them would have organised their anti-corruption policy within four years. According to scientists and NGOs, the impact of British legislation has been enormous. But there are also other developments. In Austria, for example, legislation requiring care is specifically concerned with child labour. In Germany, too, we are working on a law on due diligence in the field of human rights with particular attention, again, for child labour. These laws are still under development. That is why, unfortunately, we have little lessons to learn from this. At the same time, of course, your Chamber has rightly asked the question: are there not any European developments? Why do we, as the Netherlands, have to take the lead again, as the best boy in the class, if I say it negative? In the short term, I do not see any concrete developments that the Netherlands can join. The European Parliament may insist on binding due diligence, including in the textile sector. Resolutions are also being adopted, but not a ready-made European directive to which we can subscribe. I hope that I have answered the questions about what lessons we can draw in an international context. That brings me to the next issue, about due diligence. Let me start with Mrs Lokin-Sassen, who knows the legislation very well and also the examples in neighbouring countries. She asked me what "appropriate care" is now. We see this on the basis of the OECD guidelines. On the basis of the development of the AMvBs, the Ministry or the supervisor will have to publish a clear explanation as far as we are concerned about what should and should not be expected from companies. This is also the basis on which the supervisor will formulate binding designation as referred to in Article 7 (4) if necessary. Most Members of Parliament have also asked how we are going to implement this due diligence, despite the fact that the AMvB is not yet there. Is it really a black box? No, because I already referred to the OECD guidelines. The steps of the OECD guidelines on due diligence are 1. integrating corporate social responsibility into policies and management systems; 2. identifying and assessing the actual and potential negative impacts, activities, products and services of the company; 3. stopping, preventing and limiting negative impacts; 4. monitoring implementation and results; 5. communicating how negative impacts are addressed, and 6. taking care of or cooperating in recovery measures where possible. Mr. Chairman. Those are the guidelines. At the same time, we have also said that we need to include the evaluation of the promised import agreements. That is also possible, because we have said that this proposal will not come into force until 2020. This means that we can take into account the evaluations of the interim agreements that are still to come. In addition, it also gives time for all stakeholders, i.e. with industry, government, NGOs and all other stakeholders, to look at how these AMvBs should be shaped. And, Mr President, of course, we have also had a legal review of whether or not you can wait that long, let's say your Chamber adopts this bill in two weeks' time. Our legal information shows that there is no hard deadline, precisely because we have an open wording, and precisely because the Chamber gave me very clearly last time that it makes sense to really fill in the AMvBs when we have the final evaluation. Again, I would have liked that evaluation before. Then I could have explained more clearly here how the AMvBs should be filled in. I don't have those evaluation data right now, but I think we have a compromise on this. In addition, we say: this will be the standard, but we will determine the exact content on the basis of the results of the evaluation, which will then be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u12	Let me make this clear. Is the order: the adoption of the law, evaluations of the import agreements, AMvB, introduction? Is that the order? And, if so, that doesn't mean 2020, but it will be 2021 at the earliest. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u13	Mrs Vlietstra understood that perfectly. Only the latter I say: if I make the pass-through, we will be in 2022 rather than 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u14	I would regret that. I believe that implementation should be possible in 2021, with the commitment in the Minister's letter that those evaluations will indeed be available by 2020. But I am also waiting for the Minister's answers on this point. However, the order is as I outlined it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u15	The order is perfectly correct. And where it can be faster, I'd love to. Mrs Stienen also asked me what role leaders can play. Precisely because they already have experience, they can also think about how to fill it out in a way that you can actually implement it. She also asked me: are you there yourself? Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. Look, I want a quick trial. Mr Ester asked me the same question. It is indeed regrettable that it is going to take a very long time. But on the other hand, I must also be humble in this house. You have clearly told me that these evaluations must be taken into account in the development of the AMvBs. So that's the situation I have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u16	First, I'm gonna come to the trial. I think that one step was taken in the list of the initiators. We understand that, should the law be passed and if there are AMvBs, between the step of making the AMvBs and the step of entry into force, there is also the step of hanging the AMvBs with the two chambers of the States General. And about the time I actually have a question for Mrs Vlietstra, Mr President. We've learned now that the trial needs time, don't we? Part of those ten covenants just started. If we say that in three, or four, or seven, or nine months away, then I think we are back in the same situation. I'm listening to the debate. We must find a balance between the wisdom I have learned in the Arab world on the one hand: if you are in a hurry, you must go slowly. So we need to take sufficient time. On the other hand, we must keep pressure on the boiler, so that people and companies feel that if not enough happens, other measures must be taken than "voluntary, but not non-binding." How do we find the right balance between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u17	Mrs. Vlietstra, you were addressed. You may respond once. But then I want to end the discussion between the two Members of Parliament, because the discussion is now being held with the initiator and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u18	Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs. Stienen and I agree. I didn't use the word "one" either. We must indeed strive for care on the one hand. I'm very attached to that, too. On the other hand, however, it must not be the case that we are going to push it too far in view of the urgency of the problem. Mr Ester gave a very good presentation of this this afternoon. We must therefore also try to keep pressure on the boiler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u19	I would like to hear both the initiativer and the minister set a target date in which we will not be put in a stand-off if we do not meet that date. But at some point, of course, there must also be a time when we are dealing with the parliamentary process in which we say: it is not now feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u20	First of all, let me turn to the first question put by Mrs Stienen. Yeah, I forgot the front page procedure; I apologize for that. Indeed, it must be hung in front of both chambers. That is what is still happening, and I think the Minister will confirm it. I am also partly dependent on the Minister, because she will, of course, be primarily responsible for the development of the AMvBs. And it must indeed be a realistic timetable. So I'm impatient, but I also learned in this house that you need time. But at the same time, if we adopt this bill, you'll have the stick behind the door. If we don't take the bill, we'll lose the stick, too. So I would also like to give that back to Mrs Stienen. So by adopting the bill, you have a stick on the one hand. But by means of the AMvBs and also by the way in which there is legal scope for them, you can also exercise that care. That legal space is there, I had it checked out today, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u21	Mrs. Lokin, do you have a supplement or a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u22	A supplement. Is it okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u23	Well, very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u24	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u25	Interruptions are mainly intended to raise a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u26	Yeah, yeah, I can put it as a question. Is it not true that, as the law has been formulated at the moment, the law will not enter into force before 1 January 2020 at KB? What happens if the Royal Decree never comes? Then that law will never come into force. Question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u27	"Ask sign." That's what we heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u28	Mrs Lokin also asked a question about "by Royal Decree." I hope that she will be okay if I think for a moment about the question she is asking, and come back to this specific question in a later period, if I also go into her question about the Royal Decree at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u29	There's no later term, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u30	No, I mean right at the end of my answer. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I didn't mean to scare you. I think I have dealt with all the questions that have been asked about due diligence. If I've forgotten something, I'd like to hear it, but I think I've answered as many questions as I can. There have, of course, rightly been many questions about enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u31	In addition, the following briefly. I myself had asked both people behind the table whether they did not see an agreement between, on the one hand, the Roadmap drawn up by the OECD and just presented, and, on the other hand, the steps set out in the PricewaterhouseCoopers report. These last steps have a suspiciously large resemblance to the OECD's steps. So that's a little more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u32	Excuse me, I thought I'd already implicitly done that. Now I'm doing that explicitly. I'm sorry about that. So the answer to that question is yes. Mr. Chairman. As I said, many questions have been asked about how enforcement is to take place. Mrs Faber mentioned a paper tiger. Now we love tigers, but as long as they're just paper, they might be of a little less value, especially in our world. In response to Mrs Faber's question, I would like to point out that our legislative proposal can indeed be maintained, something that cannot be achieved in terms of current enforcement and the current complaints mechanisms. In our legislative proposal one can opt for mediation, soft law, on the one hand, and for the imposition of fines on the other. Perhaps I will answer the question raised by Mrs Lokin-Sassen. She asked whether companies could not already be held accountable. The answer to that question is yes and no, but actually no. At present, the OECD National Contact Point, the NCP, is only monitoring compliance with the OECD guidelines. Companies are not obliged to participate. I just said that about the gas and oil sectors. Half the companies don't do that. Nor does the NCP have any further enforcement mechanisms. So the NCS can expose cases, it can mediate, but that stops the enforcement tools, unlike our own initiative proposal, in which fines can indeed be imposed. I hope I have answered the questions put by Mrs Faber and Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u33	Not a supplement, but a question. This concerns the ILO. You have to abide by your standards, and if you don't, you can be under strict observation. In my view, there are quite a few countries that do not comply with all this, but there is no country that is under strict observation and there is therefore no country that is excluded. Because the ILO can rule you out, but it doesn't, so that's already not being maintained. What about your bill, if it were because of this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u34	The faint answer is to maintain. I recognise that a lot of legislation is not flawless and that enforcement is often lacking. But we now see that there is no enforcement at all when it comes to the import agreements. That's okay, because most of the companies that are participating now are willing to do so. That is why there is no need for enforcement at all. But companies in particular, who do not act in good faith and deliberately break rules, deserve a heavier enforcement mechanism. So it's searching, it may not work completely flawless yet, but it's better than what we have now, as you rightly pointed out and pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u35	I don't really understand. Because we already have rules and directives, which are not being enforced already. If we're gonna make more rules, are they gonna be enforced? I can't quite reach that. If it doesn't happen now, we're not going to enforce any additional rules, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u36	Again, we do not really have an enforcement mechanism, such as the National Contact Point. It checks, but it can only intercede. You're not obligated to participate. So the big difference with our initiative proposal is that you do have that obligation, that you have to be transparent about it and that you will have a supervisor who can also enforce it, partly through mediation, partly through fines. I think that's the big difference. Whether that will ultimately be strict enough is a matter of evaluation. But at least it's a lot more than we have now. So I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u37	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u38	Enforcement is, of course, also a problem. The ACM has been mentioned. But, yeah, he already sees the mood, he thinks it's not gonna work out. Because the ACM does not have the power to actually control abroad. So we already have a problem with that. If the ACM doesn't like it, who's gonna like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u39	Two points on monitoring. I think the ACM is perfectly capable of maintaining, but it doesn't have the expertise at the moment. So you're gonna have to add it, either through an NCP or through the SER. Furthermore, enforcement abroad is not necessary. I already made the comparison with the anti-corruption law in England. There they have an obligation to conduct anti-corruption policies, and they have to check that in their chain as far as possible. But it is not the case that as a company you have to carry out self-extreme research abroad, and that does not apply to our enforcement. That's how you fill that out. I will deal with that later. Mrs Stienen had asked questions about the functioning of the complaints mechanism. Before you come to a supervisor, a formal complaint must have been lodged with the company itself. Or, if possible, with a sectoral complaint mechanism. Complaints can be submitted by both individuals and civil society organisations. The supervisory authority shall then review what is stated in the statement and whether the company has exercised due diligence as referred to in the OECD Guidelines. If, within five years of the imposition of a fine by the administrative judge, a company again acts inappropriately or carelessly, the Public Prosecutor may prosecute the management of the company and for criminal proceedings. I hope that answers your question. Members Ester and Van Dijk asked about the register. The failure to deposit a statement may indeed lead to a fine. You could, I say to Mr Ester, who spoke of a blacklist, choose to make those fines public, so that consumers not only know which companies do, but also explicitly which companies do not comply with their duty of care. We were asked how we're going to shape the statement. As far as we are concerned, there is also a clear directive for companies on how they can comply with the law. Mr Ester's suggestion of depositing formats and taking statements for them seems to me to be a very good one. Therefore, Article 34 (3) states that further rules may be laid down on the form of the declarations. In addition to the above-mentioned one-line statements, longer-declaration formats can be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u40	Mrs Faber, one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u41	Mrs Kuik is talking about imposing a fine and possibly making it public. But is that okay? Are you even allowed to make that public?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u42	Mrs. Chicken nods yes. For the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u43	I've nodded yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this question. Mr Ester asked about the burdens on companies. Our legislative proposal calls for an effort obligation that, as we have often exchanged, has been required of companies since 2011. Companies that have already committed themselves to the OECD guidelines, including those that have done so to the child labour directive, therefore only need to give a statement to the regulator in one sentence. Companies that do nothing yet will have to do more of their due diligence, as they will have to demonstrate this, as other companies have already done, which are already part of an imvo agreement. The companies which do not yet comply with these agreements will therefore have to go to jail. But it is something we already expect from them. I hope that this answers your question, I say to Mr Ester looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u44	This is almost entrapment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u45	That is indeed a little entrapment. But do I understand now that, if you look at what the corporate bill is asking, that's not an impossible task? That's not so bad, really. I think it is important for the tone and perhaps also for the quality of the debate to establish that. Can you confirm that we are not actually asking a lot of companies when it comes to the duty of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u46	The companies on which we are proud and who are already careful, comply with the import agreements. So the answer to that question is yes: there too we have demanded nothing impossible. We are not going to do that with our own initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u47	At the risk that this point will come back later in your reply: I had asked in the second term who exactly should explain. In my view, the text of the two letters sent to us by Mrs Kuik had created uncertainty. But Mrs Kuik actually gave the answer: all companies have to explain. I heard that right, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u48	Yes. But that can be done in cooperation within an imvo-convenant. Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have already mentioned the way in which the current monitoring of the IVO agreements is being applied, including in response to Mrs Faber and Mrs Lokin. There is mediation, one can investigate, but otherwise there is no enforcement toolbox. I also explained the difference with our bill. A number of questions have also been asked by your Chamber, including by Mr Ester, about what that supervision should be. In the letter of 9 April, I already explained what the supervisor should comply with. In our view, the Authority Consumer & Market is sufficiently capable of overseeing this initiative law. For this they should attract knowledge and capacity, but this knowledge is available at the National Contact Point, as I said, and at the Economic and Social Council. This is because they are already so closely involved in the current imvo-agreement policy. As previously shared with your Chamber, the establishment of the exact supervisor is ultimately up to the cabinet. At the time, the cabinet explicitly asked for it to be regulated in this way. Some of you have put that question to the Minister, so I am happy to leave it to her to answer further. They also asked me if I had any specific contact with the ACM. No, for that same reason, I didn't. There have been a lot of conversations, but not to that extent officially. The necessary questions have also been asked about the entry into force of the bill. I have already said a number of things about this. Mrs Flietstra, Mr Ester and Mr Lintmeijer asked for further consideration. I think the five steps are clearly defined. Following the entry into force of this bill, the evaluation of the agreements and the elaboration of the AMMs, it will be submitted to the Chamber and only then approved. I can also imagine that this will take account of a transitional period for companies. Although I want speed, this Chamber has made me aware that care is also appropriate and that all companies can experience this in a good way. That is why I come to a date of entry into force of 2022. I still had Mrs Lokin's question about the Royal Decree allowing the law to be repealed. This is stated in the law under Article 12 (2), which was at the time included at the request of the D66 group in the Lower House and was approved by all legislative lawyers who were involved from both Chambers and the field in the drafting of this bill. The moment it's decided to withdraw this bill, we have nothing left. I would now very much like to enter into the conversation with your Chamber in order to get this bill passed. That would be a very good first step. This brings me almost to the end of the answer to the questions put by your Chamber in the second term. I hope I did justice to all the questions. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words to you. Your Chamber has rightly said that the Netherlands has set itself the goal of pursuing sustainable development goals. This also means that child labour must be eliminated by 2025. Is that perhaps too ambitious? Well, that could be true. With a wink at Mrs Stienen, I think that Mr Van Houten has asked himself the same question. "Am I perhaps too ambitious, am I too idealistic, am I giving up too many freedoms by laying down the Children's Law of Van Houten here?" I think that he has finally chosen his social side and for the somewhat sidestepping of freedoms. The verdict is ultimately up to your Chamber. I hope that I have laid down and explained why I think it is so important to have this stick behind the door: to provide more transparency and protection for consumers, but also to create a level playing field for all those companies that are already doing their best. So I'm hoping for a social choice. As you rightly said, it was 29 to 7, but it was in favour of Van Houten's Children's Law. I'm hoping for a nice vote in your room. Thank you very much for your time and attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, of course, thanks to the members of this Chamber for their input and to the initiator of the reply, the letters and, of course, the extensive explanation that was followed in the recent letter. I think it is important from the outset to say that the cabinet wants to meet the 2030 sustainable development targets. Some members have a separate goal, because child labour has of course long been a goal, an older goal, also through the international organisation of work. In any case, these objectives stand. The cabinet is working very hard and in various ways to combat and achieve the objectives, the SDGs. Now the key question for the cabinet is what is effective policy in the field of international corporate social responsibility, which is not limited to child labour. I would like to underline that. It covers many themes and depends on the sector, on the companies and on the nature of the country's economy, including labour rights, a living wage and the environment, all of this under the heading of sustainability, including of course human rights. Child labour always jumps out of that, of course, because children are the most vulnerable. We have a special covenant for children's rights that we, as the Netherlands, always work hard for. Moreover, we still have a few protocols to ratify, let me just say for the record. Anyway, we support UNICEF, Save the Children and a number of other organisations, precisely from the point of view that the most vulnerable here and elsewhere, of course, deserve special attention. Having said this, we see child labour as a specific issue of attention, investment and our voice in Geneva and elsewhere. We are looking at the integrity and feasibility of policies, including the proposed legislation, of course. I would now like to look at the evaluations and investigations, with due care, in fact some of the same headings as those appointed by the initiator. I would also like to refer to the Ivo agreements, which have often been mentioned, as well as to the supervision, the general measure of governance, the timetable and a number of constitutional aspects which we naturally take into account. I haven't studied jura for a single day; I've graduated in other subjects, but I'm getting good advice, I hope. I am aware of the important role of this Chamber in terms of legislation, of course. I would like to come back to some of the questions and comments that have been raised in the evaluations and when they are expected. For the cabinet it is still central that voluntary, not non-committal, is the basis of the imvo policy. That agreement is very clear in the coalition agreement. There is no need for voluntaryness and non-committality to be diagonally opposed to each other. We do not want to assess until after that and decide whether additional 'forceful measures' are appropriate. An evaluation of the agreement policy has been promised by the cabinet itself. It will start in the autumn of this year in accordance with government agreement. That's on time. The IOB shall carry out a comprehensive review of the broad IVO policy for the period 2012-2018 in the framework of the required policy review of Article 1 of the External Trade and Development Cooperation budget. Within this policy review, the IOB also carries out several sub-studies. As you know, she expects a partial study to be carried out before the summer in relation to the agreement policy and the OECD National Contact Point guidelines. Third, the ESC carried out a process evaluation in 2018 and indicated that it is too early to carry out a results evaluation or to have an opinion on it. Many agreements are, as you know, very labour-intensive in the start-up because of the consultation, the involvement of many partners and the need to get used to, speak and make clear agreements. We also have agreements that a number of partners have left out of discontent with the interim results of the process. So it's a bit of a fruit basket occasionally, if I may give a very careless caricature. It's important to say this. I too regret the delay due to the failure of the independent IOB to complete the evaluation in time, which covers a six-year process. But the IOB remains completely independent, I underline; it is an inspection service. Moreover, the comprehensiveness of the policy remained a guiding principle. It was not a question and certainly not an unwillingness on the part of the cabinet to put together anything to meet a deadline that is not his. That would not do justice to the order given. Nor would it provide any qualitative, let alone quantitative information that would benefit this Chamber or the Cabinet. I think it is important to clarify that there are therefore a number of partial studies and evaluations that come together. If you look at the study of PwC. I am glad to see that we have initiated this ourselves, and I note that it was intended to have a good performance, an inventory of what is already happening in other countries. This is often also process-based, but the intention was to see what is happening now with global trafficking, the global trafficking law in the UK, what is happening in France, what are the differences, what are the criteria, what are the scope and what are the objectives. The aim of all this is that, if we start our own assessment of the covenants to see if binding measures are needed, the Cabinet will have all the information in time to form a sound judgment. So that's the status of PwC's study, which I'll come back to later. Mrs Vlietstra wanted to know if the law will only enter into force after the IOB evaluation. As I have just said, the IOB evaluation, which covers the six-year process, has been delayed, but there is still an own assessment of the cabinet. It will start in the autumn of this year in accordance with agreements in the coalition agreement. That will also be a leading study. There are several elements that we want to bring together. If the law is passed, I don't think it's possible that we'll be done with the AMvB right away. We'd like to take the results with us, but if the law is passed, we'll get to work on the implementation of the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u51	It may not be really important, because there are no evaluations, but I heard the Minister say: in accordance with the government agreement and in line with government policy, we will start in autumn 2019 and it will be in 2020. How can we then see on 28 February 2018 a letter from the Minister to the House of Representatives announcing the completion of these evaluations by the end of 2018, that we ourselves received a letter on 26 November 2018 stating that this is not feasible and that the IOB Executive Board has updated this to spring 2019 and that the Minister's letter of 22 February 2019 says: "As is well known, the evaluation of the covenant policy will start in autumn 2019"? I'm having a hard time getting this all figured out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u52	I understand that very well. That is why I have just mentioned a number of evaluations. That of the IOB is different from the evaluation that is led by the cabinet itself and there are a number of partial studies. So what's in my letter is still standing. This concerns the IOB evaluation covering the period 2012-2018, which was already set out in an earlier period, and there are a number of SER studies. The cabinet plans to start its own appreciation in the autumn, using all the sub-studies and the IOB evaluation covering the period 2012-2018. The cabinet study or evaluation is not an IOB evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u53	I thank the Minister for this explanation. It might have been helpful if it had been written earlier. At least that would have prevented me from asking a number of questions, because in the letter it seems to be always about the same evaluation. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is some material already. I referred to the July 2018 progress report, the report that just appeared from the Covenant Sustainable Clothing and Textiles and the PwC report. I am curious to know what the Minister's assessment of the state of play is at present with regard to the covenants. You say, "Voluntary is not without obligation." I am curious to see how your assessment is on that point and whether you think there is sufficient progress to have confidence in it and perhaps to look at this law in a different way. I also heard you say between your nose and your lips: "If this law is passed, we will get to work with the AMvB." To be honest, that surprised me. I had correctly understood from Mrs Kikken that the order is: to adopt the law, to evaluate it, to say now: to evaluate it and then to get to work with the AMvB. I am therefore confused by this, because it seems much more obvious to me to wait for these evaluations and to develop or design the AMvB on the basis of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u54	Thank you for your care. As far as the latter is concerned, yes, of course, I just wanted to underline our good will. Whatever you're assuming, we'll do it. In the first term, I heard a number of questions suggesting that unsuspected would have given the impression that the cabinet might be slower, or not, because of the other processes that we ourselves have. I just wanted to underline that point, but we are not here yet. We're still in the middle of a debate. As far as PwC is concerned, that's a study, an overview. As far as I'm concerned, there's not so much in it that you can have comparative material with. It is an insight for us, but it also shows that, apart from the process, scope and space, we cannot say much about France. As already appointed by Mrs Lokin, for example, we also know that these are companies that employ 5,000 or more employees or people, and-and-and-and-and-and-so. So there are a lot of examples, but nothing is an integral legal set-up in a way such as, for example, the cabinet that could possibly investigate. But the cabinet has deliberately chosen to look at the qualitative progress. Of the twelve or thirteen covenants, some are now only in the start-up phase, for example in the area of oil and gas. If you have time to read my letter of offer, you can see that the cabinet really clearly indicates that the sector itself really needs to investigate how the sector can get a plan of action. It is not that I immediately expect child labour to be a factor in the oil and gas sector, but that may be because of my lack of knowledge. That was, of course, the argument of the sector itself: this is not our problem, for example. But all agreements run at a different pace. Of course, the textile agreement is the most advanced. The protein agreement has lifted itself and continues in a food agreement. It is very difficult to say that all covenants are going well. The Netherlands will now sign a covenant for natural stone together with Flanders. This is, of course, very important when it comes to small hands, child labour and exploitation in the sector at all. We are setting targets for this, but we are only starting now. In terms of time, process, participation and scope, the situation from covenant to covenant is therefore very different. You are asking for my advice from the cabinet on this initiative law. From the point of view of care, I do not want to anticipate a debate that I have yet to hold, also in anticipation of the IOB evaluation and our own assessments. They are variable themes and different levels of progress, depending on the complexity within the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u55	We had taken these three different evaluations out of the various letters by now, but I have a question to clarify about the evaluation that the cabinet itself is going to do and which will start in autumn 2019. Could the Minister give an indication of how long she thinks it will take and when the results will be about? Again, we understand very well that you have to do this type of evaluation carefully, but when would that take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u56	I can't give you a timetable for that yet. We're working on the terms of reference right now. I'm in a hurry, too. Looking at the remaining period of the sitting cabinet and the importance and scope of the subjects, this is certainly not something that should be drawn over a long timeline from my perspective, but I cannot say that. I'll leave this to the evaluators, too. It is also a capacity issue within my ministry, because we need to attract independent experts and these are difficult processes. I'm not expecting anything for next spring, and I'm still very optimistic. But for the record, that's actually just a wild guess on my part right now. There was a question from Mrs Vlietstra whether, within the framework of legislation and due diligence, we attach more importance to the level playing field in the EU than to the Dutch level playing field. We actually think that a European level playing field should by definition also be a Dutch level playing field. As we did in the period between 16 months ago and now, we are focusing on work that we want to set up in a European context. As you know, we are being helped by an imvo working group within the European Parliament. We organised a conference with the European Economic and Social Council. We regularly discuss this with Commissioner Timmermans. We also call on the Commission to pay political and technical attention to this. And we have talks with the incoming Presidency of Finland and Germany and we are working together with Sweden and Belgium. The Netherlands is leading Europe and is working towards speeding up an EU initiative. Whether it is fast, I would not dare to suggest, but a great deal of work has been done at European level, precisely by the Netherlands and certainly since the last time we met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u57	I'm happy about that. My question referred to what the minister received from some 40 large companies, which say: the moment you adopt the Child Labour Act, this means that all companies are in the same position and that you restore the level playing field. That level playing field is not there now, because companies participate in the import agreements on a voluntary basis. That is what my question was about, because it seemed a bit like the Minister attaches more importance to the European level playing field than to the Dutch, while I think they are both important. I would like a response, also to the call from those 40 large companies to restore that level playing field at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u58	I think it depends very much on the sector and on the competitiveness of the companies with which they compete. Sometimes companies compete purely with other European companies and are the company in the Netherlands. That depends very much. The second. We're gonna bet on both tracks. The third is that, frankly, I hear a lot of contradictory sounds. Many companies in many branches say to us precisely: if the voluntary element stops now and you are already going to keep legislation above the covenants, then it will hurt the mood that there is still to work on the covenants. Frankly, these are important insights. Just as loud as you, quite rightly, report what a number of large companies say, especially in the textile sector, I think, but not only there, I hear the opposite from a lot of companies too. This is also what we hear from interbranch organisations, so that is difficult to weigh. I think we should look at the objective: how to achieve it best and what is the best legal framework, can it be monitored, is it feasible, is it most effective and efficient from the legislative point of view? That's always the issue. The political debate is about the added value of covenants, such as voluntary and non-binding, and the fact that binding measures can be the additional element. This can create complementarity, with which you will eventually achieve your final objective. That is the question, I think. Then I would like to continue on the subject of due care. Mr Overbeek wanted to know whether I see the OECD guidelines as a good basis for developing due diligence. First of all, you will not be surprised that we use the OECD guidelines as a starting point everywhere. We take them into everything we do. Any trade mission, companies that go along and cooperate, companies that want to be eligible for export financing or for any government financing, must endorse the OECD guidelines. If we know that they are going over the line, they will be called upon to do so and we expect a change. But indeed, accepting directives is a start. Maintaining and achieving improvements throughout the chain is, of course, the more important issue. The six steps of the OECD guidelines call for an assessment of the cabinet more. According to the Directives, all risks in the chain should be identified in order to address the worst risks. This can be child labour, but also deforestation or forced labour in the broad spectrum. Mr Overbeek knows that like no other. According to directives, a company must do more than demonstrate what it has done. It must demonstrate what measures can be taken. A company must therefore, according to the guidelines, integrate the imvo into the policy and management system and communicate how negative impacts are addressed. This is the comprehensive consideration and expectation of the OECD guidelines. That's more than signing; that's what the friction is sometimes about. We are, of course, working on it through the covenants. A clear and unambiguous standard of due diligence has been requested. This has yet to be worked out in the general measure of governance. This is where the cabinet is concerned, as is the previous point of the OECD guidelines. What is expected in the framework of the directives? The concern of the cabinet is that a set of standards should be static for legal enforcement. Customized care is of course also aimed at a continuous and dynamic process. There is no law yet, but that does not mean that we should not work towards improvement. I agree with a number of Members who have said that. But there is no law in this area whose operation has been positively evaluated and which we would like to use. The absence of a good example does not mean that the Netherlands cannot set a good example itself. This is more of a question of timing. Mr Overbeek asked for clarification on the relationship between the covenants and the law. I do not know if I have already identified a number of cases in the previous comments. For the last year and a half, or sixteen months, there has been work on the conclusion and implementation of covenants. It's already been appointed. New agreements have been concluded, including in the insurance sector, a very important sector. The pension sector is coming, that covenant is also signed. And the metal and natural stone sectors are coming up. The provision in Article 5 (4) that the undertaking acting in accordance with an approved joint approach plan should exercise due diligence means that the supervisor must give an opinion on compliance with a covenant. As a result, according to the government, the nature of the covenant of a voluntary self-binding instrument changes into an instrument of government regulation. Compliance with the agreement belongs to the contracting parties and we find it difficult to see how the supervisor can have a very active role. But this may be a weighting for this Chamber. For the record, we can, of course, see how participation in an agreed joint approach can help meet obligations under Article 4, for example, by submitting a statement. An explanation is a starting point. Another problem is that if you look at the impact and the implementation of the programme, a supervisor who is unable to control it abroad will find out how to implement it in practice. I'll come back to the starting point. The cabinet, like everyone else and certainly the initiator, wants to combat child labour in the most efficient, effective and successful way and bring about a change. The question is whether the form helps to achieve the objective in the most integral way. That is why I have a number of concerns. On supervision, again a question from Mr Overbeek, another explanatory question was why the appointment of the supervisor at AMvB was chosen. We had this checked out. It may be another form of language. As the initiator knows, the Lower House voted in favour of the law on 7 February, including the appointment of a supervisor per AMvB. In the letter to questions from a number of MPs, the cabinet was asked to list what needs to be done, in accordance with what was stated in the initiative proposal. The cabinet did not wish to state that a supervisor should be appointed. It merely listed what was laid down in the initiative law. It is therefore not the case that the government itself took the initiative; the government is not in general in favour of this designating role. The cabinet believes that a supervisor is ideally appointed by law and not by AMvB. But this is the current situation. Mrs Stienen asked about the signalling function of embassies, when it comes to the role of Dutch business, the imvo and compliance with OECD guidelines. Of course, we have a broad team. It's not just the embassies. I was just talking about the missions, the role of the RVO and even the role of the FMO. These are all public authorities active in the "marketing" of the directives. Where abuses are detected or an alert comes in, the follow-up is given. It is not only a de facto role in the tasks of people working at embassies, but one has to assume that in many countries there are no economic attachés. It is therefore an integral consideration. It's actually a continuous link being made. But I would not add it explicitly to the terms of reference of a diplomat. It's either part of the day's work or it's part of the day's work. Mr Lintmeijer asked about the role of NGOs in monitoring. He also asked who could possibly be the supervisor. Of course, NGOs play an important role on many fronts, including within the agreements in the application of due diligence and compliance with the directives. We see no role for NGOs as a supervisor. The supervisor shall be an independent body. I have no new insights myself when it comes to the question of who the supervisor might be. It is still a fairly new policy area, with which supervisors have little experience. Both the ACM and other existing bodies have for the time being indicated that they do not see this role for themselves. If the law were to be passed, it would be a question of a further stage. Madam President. I'm almost at the end of my answer. I'll try to speed it up a little. A number of questions have been asked about the general measure of governance. Mr Overbeek asked for an AMvB on exceptions concerning the time of delivery of the requested declaration. Such an exception can only be dealt with if the legal time proves to be unfeasible. That can only be proved in practice. For the time being, we do not see any need for this. Mr Overbeek has also asked a question about the application of the procedure for the suspension. I would like to inform the Chamber that, of course, I am prepared to apply the suspension procedure also to the other AMvBs, in addition to the pending procedure for the AMvB laid down in Article 6 in which the exemption can be regulated. Mr Overbeek also asked if I would be prepared to waive the option of sub-delegatory when implementing the AMVBs. Now I really need to read it carefully. The formula "by or by general measure of governance" means that the AMvB may leave certain technical administrative details to the ministerial regime for elaboration. I wouldn't want to abandon that possibility in advance. In making an exception to a legal regime, there must indeed be restraint, as Mr Overbeek pointed out in connection with the exemption for categories of companies. However, in certain sectors full application of the law could lead to unnecessary burdens. I think I have also tasted that from a number of proposals and suggestions for the cabinet to consider doing it in a certain way. Much remains to be seen in the future. We must continue to look very carefully at the workload, the burden and the feasibility of what is being proposed. The fact that the required explanation is of limited length does not mean that the underlying efforts are also limited. I have a fine example in my text, but I will not use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u59	I understand very well that the Minister says that she does not want to abandon the possibility of delegation of a certain technical effect, of the possibility of doing so under ministerial arrangements. I also referred in my second term story to an interruption by Mrs Lokin. She said: do you realize that this wording also makes it possible to delegate much more substantive and policy-relevant aspects to another body, possibly even to another political party? Of course, the latter wasn't really serious. The question I have now is the following. I understand that the Minister wants to have the opportunity to do technical effects on ministerial arrangements, but I would like to hear confirmation that the more policy-related and substantive issues will be included in the AMvB itself. Everyone thought it was an undesirable path to put some things not in the law but in an AMvB. I do not want us to take that one step further by not putting it in the AMvB itself, but to delegate it to another body. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u60	I heard the question, but I just wanted to make sure that I understood Mr Overbeek's speech correctly. Do I understand correctly that there is a desire that, where there is this possibility, the substantive side can still be delegated? Is that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u61	I hear Mr Overbeek say outside the microphone that that is not the question. He asked about the risk of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u62	It's hard for me. Since there is so much unnamed and not worked out, I do not want to say "yes" or "no" in advance. We don't have a good overview of that. If this law were to be adopted, we would, of course, be working seriously on its implementation, in accordance with the deadlines laid down. There is a role for the cabinet and other experts, partners and stakeholders can provide a substantive expertise. The initiator has already mentioned a number of them. This can be important in terms of formulation and elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u63	I regret, however, that the Minister does not want to admit that it is undesirable to sub-delegate policy decisions. But it's no different!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u64	I just recognize there's ignorance on my side. It's not like I don't want to admit something. This is a subject that we have not yet done. The Ministry is also not a ministry that submits or controls laws on a weekly basis. There's no unwillingness. I still don't know what I'd admit or not. I admit that if a law is passed, we will make the best possible effort in accordance with the legal expectations of the cabinet in all laws. That's all I dare to say, because I'm afraid of the lawyers of my own ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u65	This is, of course, the principle of parliamentary control. Mr. Overbeek, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u66	Mr Overbeek says outside the microphone: Mrs Lokin can explain that very well. I hope so. My concern is, among other things, that the law only mentions the veil where the exemptions are concerned. In defining the duty of care and the supervisor, there is no legal obligation to hang those AMvBs in both Chambers of the States-General, whereas in fact all substantive definitions and effects are made at or under AMvB. I personally find that rather indigestible. That is what I want to say. I think it is very nice of the Minister to promise all sorts of things, to promise that she will not use them, but legally, the law does offer that possibility. If any successors of the minister want to be more angry, they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u67	I think I had now entered the text of the speech that I can confirm that for both AMvBs I have a heavy front in both chambers of the States General. I hope that will meet the demand and concern. I can see that this is not entirely the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u68	In any case, that is an important commitment for me. It's not so much about admitting, it's about committing. I support Mr Overbeek that it might also help to ensure that, when it comes to policy implications, you promise that you will at least inform this Chamber of this. When it comes to all kinds of technical matters, I'd be happy to leave it to you. But when it comes to policy matters, choices about monitoring, for example, I can imagine that you will promise to inform this Chamber properly. By the way, at the time the AMvB is presented, we also know all the results of the evaluations and we can also assess for ourselves what you did or did not do with them in the present AMvB and express our opinion on them, especially now that you have promised that there will be a heavy pending procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u69	Yes, assuming that this law has a progress path, all these commitments will take shape by the Cabinet. Then Mr Ester of the Christian Union asked me about the process of drafting this bill and my own role in it. The role of the cabinet has been limited to the usual technical advice, upon request. There was no statement of substance by the officials in support when requested. Mr Lintmeijer and Mrs Vlietstra asked about the timetable and whether the possible date for its adoption would be feasible. We do not dare to set a deadline for this. We cannot give an insight into this at the moment. I do not dare to mention a date, not only because it may not be reached, but more because we do not yet understand what route is going on. However, as has already been pointed out by the initiator, there are a number of steps to be taken, the evaluation has to be taken into account, other moments have to be weighed and there will still be a lot of capacity to be hired by the Ministry where this is desirable. This will therefore take some time. Should the law be passed, I would like to return to the timetable provided by the cabinet at another time. I think that would be a little more practical. I have just dealt with Mr Overbeek's questions. There was also a question from Mrs Lokin-Stassen as to whether the repeal of the law by Royal Decree is not a state-law abomination. I note that such a figure is indeed at odds with the principle that an amendment or withdrawal of a scheme takes place in the context of equal treatment. This principle is sometimes derogated from by the repeal of lower regulation by law. I'm sure you'll notice I'm literally reading this. Thus, it is reasonable that a law which seeks to replace an autonomous general measure of governance also provides for the repeal of that self-employed AMvB. I do not know any precedents of a withdrawal of higher regulation by a system or decision that is lower in the hierarchy. I can confirm, perhaps, once again in response to Mr Overbeek's question, that if the possibility of repealing the law by Royal Decree is not used, a new law is indeed needed. Then, at the beginning, a question was asked by a number of Members of Parliament. I myself have been the director of UNICEF in the field and have drawn very hard on programmes that fight child labour in very difficult places. I would like to stress that the cabinet considers this to be extremely important, but the cabinet also wants to name the number of concerns now, but also in the period that we had in December 2017 which still exist in terms of the objective, feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed initiative law. Furthermore, we await the final decision of this Chamber, with much thanks to the initiator and the members of the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u70	I see Mrs. Vlietstra and Mr. Overbeek are coming to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u71	Mr President, I have not so much a question as a comment. The minister's gonna be the one who's gonna design the AMvB. She has a number of concerns about the feasibility et cetera. I think that the prime minister will soon be in a position to properly place the concerns she has in the AMvB. I would like to invite her to make the most of this position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u72	I probably had a moment of slackening, because I haven't heard the answer to one question. That was the question about the AMvB, which deals with the exemption of certain categories of companies from the obligations imposed by this law, the reporting obligation in principle. In particular, I asked whether the Minister did not agree with me that a small size of a company should not be an exemption ground. It is precisely the strength of this law that all companies are in principle bound by this law. The exemption ground should be in a probability calculation of the prevention of child labour in the production chain. If we can all see that it is virtually impossible for child labour to play a role in this industry or for this category of companies, then I can imagine that this is an exemption ground, but purely and only the size of the company seems to me, given the relatively limited administrative burden, to be an exemption ground in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u73	My first reaction would be that it is not about the size of the company, but about the relevance of the company and whether child labour is involved. That's about the exemption. Most of the companies in the Netherlands are SMEs, which already find it difficult to work on agreements. If it turns out that it's not all that simple in the implementation, you're going to get a risk-avoidance response, right from the business world, and you're not going to tackle your child labour at all. These were some of the points we made in December 2017: you cannot tackle child labour and you de facto harm a number of smaller Dutch companies. Then we'll shoot the target. So no, size is not, as far as I am concerned, a criterion for exclusion, because then we will reach fewer and fewer people. That is also the risk of the legislation we have already seen. I call France again: 5,000+ employees. I don't know how many companies that is, but you don't have most of the market with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u74	Thanks for the answer. I would like to make two comments on this. Indeed, we discussed the risk of risk-avoidance in the first period. I also recognise that this may be an objection to this proposed law. At the same time, the more we have talked about this, the more convinced I am that this is precisely where the complementarity of the legal obligation and the participation in covenants comes out very strongly. It is precisely for the smaller companies that it becomes more interesting to participate in agreements, because they can then fulfil their obligations under this law by means of collective support. So I see this as an understatement of the complementary effect between law and covenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u75	Perhaps, but then it is really the cabinet's view that the overall balance of the spectrum is likely to be a better investment in terms of approach, time and feasibility in the longer term. This integrity remains very important to us. But that's up to the Chamber. I hope I have answered all the further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u76	I have one comment from Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u77	Yes, Mr President, because one question from me has not yet been answered. Ms Kuik predicts that the bill, assuming it is adopted, will not enter into force until 2022. I think that the Minister will not be far from it if she is asked to mention a specific year. I stressed the importance of making good use of the transitional period. There's almost three years left. It is precisely that period that you could use very well to support companies, especially all those small businesses, in preparing for the law, by encouraging them to participate in covenants. I agree with Mr Overbeek that, in particular, participation in agreements offers very good opportunities to meet the obligations laid down by the law. I asked the Minister what she was going to do during the transitional period to support these companies on the road to finally introducing the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u78	Mr. Chairman. I could have a whole covenant debate. We are very actively working on it, with the sector, with companies, through sessions, during travel, and in reports, but this is often led by the ESC, industry organisations, and NGOs. There is a very specific approach per covenant. It's really custom-made by a covenant. It is not a template that we can stick to any sector. It is becoming increasingly specific and therefore increasingly effective in the long term. I think that will also be the lessons from the IOB evaluation. It's a day job for me. So the question is not what commitment I am going to make, because I do it almost every day, with NGOs, industry organisations, or on trips. An example, even if it is not a covenant: the Bangladesh Agreement. There is no compliance in this respect, so I am taking that up at political level, also to ensure that the signatories of that agreement and the organisation that supports it are not thrown out of the country. That is a political-diplomatic mission of the Netherlands. So we're working on that day in, day out. This is all part of it anyway. If we want these agreements to be successful, we must provide as many participants as possible. We're gonna do that anyway, whether there's a law or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u79	Thank you. No one runs to the microphone anymore, so that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u80	I have come to deal with the proposal for an initiative. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? Well, that's pretty obvious. That's the case. I propose to vote on the initiative proposal on 14 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u81	Mr President, my group would like a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-11.u82	Very good. This has been recorded. A roll-call vote has been requested by the PvdA, but at least we are going to vote on 14 May. Can the members join in on this? That's the case.
