ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Öztürk's question on behalf of DENK to the Minister of Finance on insurance premiums for taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A level playing field, that's what the cab drivers want. They want to transport their passengers in a proper way. They want to earn a fair and just living. But what do the taxi drivers get in return for this? Their bpm is abolished, so the government grabs taxi drivers in their wallets. They suffer from unfair competition. Hundreds of self-employed taxi drivers are threatening to lose their insurance. Only against a towering premium can they get a new insurance policy. Hundreds of taxi drivers are in big financial trouble. Insurance premiums go up from €100 to €250 per month. Even €500 deposit must be paid. Sometimes three months in advance have to be paid. Why does this cabinet choose multinationals like Uber again? Why is this cabinet dropping the cab drivers? DENK thinks this is outrageous. Taxi drivers don't have it easy. They have to work 12 hours a day, face unfair competition, bear the burden themselves when they are sick, and incur high costs. I want a clear answer from the Minister. How is it that taxi driver insurance premiums are doubled? How can it be that a number of insurance companies, agencies and companies create a monopoly and make life miserable for these taxi drivers? How is it that the bpm of taxi drivers is taken away? How is it that nothing is being done about Uber's unfair competition? How is it that drivers are being dealt with by Uber? I would like a clear answer from this Minister, and not to send weak answers to the Chamber, as has just happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying that it is of course very annoying that the premium is going up, especially for those taxi drivers who never do any damage. But there are a few things that need to be remembered in this story. The first, and yet the most important, is that the cause of this problem is, of course, the high burden of damage caused by taxis. It is three times higher than in the driving population as a whole. In addition, to some extent insurers can differentiate between the latter but only to some extent, so that those who drive less damage also pay less premium than those who do a lot of damage. But at some point, of course, this is at odds with the core principle that we also have in insurance, namely solidarity. With all due understanding of the questions that Mr Öztürk rightly raises here, I believe that the best solution is to find prevention: to reduce damage, to reduce accidents and thus to lower premiums, regardless of the fact that less damage and less accidents are, of course, also worth a lot to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's embarrassing, isn't it? Isn't it embarrassing that the Minister puts the ball back with the taxi drivers? If you've been doing damage-free work for 20 years and have to go from €110 to €250 a month, isn't it embarrassing that the Minister doesn't say, "I'm gonna talk to those insurance agencies, I'm gonna talk to that insurance company and I'm gonna deal with them?" In KLM's transport, this minister stops at nearly EUR 1 billion, and he fights with France about that transport, but when it comes to those hundreds, thousands of taxi drivers who have to transport the people after a KLM plane has landed at Schiphol Airport, he says: you need to calm down and that will reduce the insurance premium. Shameful! I hope the Minister realizes what he's doing here now. Does the Minister choose KLM, Uber, Shell, Unilever and AkzoNobel or does the Minister choose all those taxi drivers who want to transport people in the Netherlands in a decent way day and night? My follow-up question is, what do you have against taxi drivers? Are they too small? Don't they vote for you? Why are you abandoning them? Why do you choose Uber? Why don't you take on the multinational Uber? Why don't you dare? What are you going to do with the monopoly of insurers? Give me a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	I almost have the impression that Mr Öztürk is starting to get a little excited. For the record, I would like to stress once again that it is, of course, extremely annoying for those who do not drive any damage. It is annoying for any taxi driver who knows about a higher premium, but that is particularly true for those who do not have any or little damage. But the reality is that we have to insist that taxis simply cause three times as much damage as the entire population of vehicles. Then it is also reasonable that you make a distinction, because what would be the alternative? The alternative would be to say to all carriers: it is annoying, but your premium goes up because it is the case that taxi drivers drive three times as much damage. I don't think that's reasonable. I believe that the solution must be found in prevention. This is good for society as a whole, and that is also good for taxi drivers and for the premium. What I would like to say, after all the positive encouragement given by Mr Öztürk, is that we can naturally join in the discussion that will undoubtedly take place between the industry and the insurers in order to see whether we can play an intermediate role in this. However, I would like to make this point very clear: taking into account the comments I have just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	When it comes to the problems of taxi drivers because of the fact that the insurance companies with their monopoly make it very difficult for taxi drivers, the Minister says: I am going to mediate. But the same minister puts nearly 1 billion euros in KLM. How can that be? How can it be that the Minister, when it comes to greater interests, does everything and tries to stretch all the rules, where necessary, but does not stand up for the little entrepreneur who stands up for this country day and night and transports all those people? Again, are you prepared to use funds where necessary to break the insurance monopoly and help the taxi drivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Öztürk insists, so... Look, if he had found that the cabinet in the case of Air France and KLM stretched the rules beyond the unreasonable, he should have voted against. But he didn't. What can I offer him in this particular case? I repeat, of course, like the whole Chamber, that these premiums have risen considerably and that that is complicated when you have done your job of operating a taxi. It is particularly complicated for those who do not suffer damage. I would also like to reiterate that we are joining the discussion and that we are looking at whether we can play an intermediate role in this. But I would like to point out once again the following. If I'm moving into the alternative, and that's real: other Dutch people are saddled with part of this premium, because we think it's too high, then I think that of the two flavors that are the less reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, and thank you, Mr Öztürk. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV for his question to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.... No, Mr Öztürk, you can't talk to the minister anymore; it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	Oh, excuse me! I was waiting for Mr. De Jong, but he wasn't going to ask me anything more. I see Mr Koolmees now too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	No, and Mr Öztürk thought: I am going to continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	No, Mr Koolmees was already ahead of diesel!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	It's okay, thank you. It's okay.
