ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the informal European summit on 9 May 2019. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and give Mr Asscher the floor on behalf of the PvdA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Where do we want to go with Europe? That question is before the informal summit today, but also before the forthcoming European elections. It is a good thing that we ask ourselves that question and do not allow ourselves to be restricted, after three years of 'to Brexit or not to Brexit', to the question of whether you should leave the Union or not. The question must of course be: how do we want the European Union to change? There are many economic arguments for cooperation in Europe. Yet that is not the core, because our prosperity is linked to our values: freedom, equality and brotherhood. That's more than just making money. The quality of our lives and of our society is also more than our gross national product. It depends on the need to know you're protected from the threats of this time, and to know that there is solidarity when you get sick or out of work, and to know that the way of life that we choose, that freedom, remains protected. If we want that to be guaranteed in the future, we need the European Union to do so and that European Union will have to change, precisely in terms of values. That is more than economics, because you can be economically hugely successful without respecting those values. Look how free one is in China or how much solidarity there is in the United States. On freedom, Europe should have the ambition to be the leader of the free world. That is to say: be strict against the violation of freedom by its own Member States. That is to say, to make the European model a condition. And so in trade agreements, protection of animal welfare, workers' rights and the environment are the norm. That is to say, defending freedom, including in other countries. Not only stop irregular migration, but export stability instead of importing instability. On equality, Europe should be much more able to opt for a more social Europe. It must be a European ambition to combat child poverty and youth unemployment. The business model of labour migration, which competes on labour costs between Europeans, needs to be abolished. It is time to deal with the structures used to set up workers against each other, with lower wage costs and the loss of solidarity in the countries as a result. On brotherhood and solidarity, we see that the undermining that is taking place by large companies needs to be tackled at European level. The fact that multinational companies use the European market to pay as little tax as possible but to benefit from that single market must be combated. We see that tax competition destroys more than it produces, also from a Dutch perspective. We are a little done with the arguments as 'we have to, because otherwise these companies will go to a European neighbouring country'. So it is time for Europe, too, if you want to guarantee brotherhood for the future, to go to minimum rates for the tax on profits. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this. It is also time that we in Europe launched a proposal this morning to tax the turnover of the huge digital companies that are now there. This tax is necessary to ensure that we finance the dikes, the armed forces, care and education for all. It is also necessary to tax capital more so that labour and wages can be less taxed and wages can rise again, something that many Europeans are longing for. The European Union must be more than a union of economies and must not have the ambition of being cheaper than China or more flexible than the United States, but better than both. And that can be done if we dare to opt for a changing union where values prevail, so that all people in Europe are sure that they are protected from the great threats of this time, that they can be themselves and choose their own way of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u4	I always find it a pleasure to listen to Mr Asscher, but when I hear what he is saying, I do wonder where the freedom for countries to choose their own policies has remained with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you so much for that nice introduction, thank you very much. That freedom remains very great. With digital taxes, for example, it is a shame that the Netherlands should now introduce its own digital tax. We propose that and hope for your support, but it would be better for those huge companies throughout Europe to pay a percentage of their turnover and then give that money back to the countries, so that we can make choices in it after a political debate. One will then say: we are lowering the tax here. We say: more money for the teachers. So that freedom is very great. Especially in those major issues such as security and dealing with migration and climate change, you need this cooperation with the other European countries very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u6	Working with other European countries is, I think, a great asset, but not if we actually let Brussels take over in many areas. It sounds so good to fight youth unemployment everywhere, but how do you see it? Should we do that again via Brussels? Or can we make our own decisions? In fact, shouldn't the aldermen who are much closer to that do so? What I see is that the European Union train gives aldermen and local administrators less room to make their policies, because the internal market must be one from Leiden to Lisbon and from Bratislava to Breda and we must not get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u7	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u8	So is the Labour Party prepared, if it is in favour of the freedom of Member States, to argue that you can then say: we are no longer participating in the internal market, because it is against our democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u9	This is a very long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u10	But also a very good question. I think we are much more in agreement than the questioner seems to suggest. The essence of your speech is that there must be more than just the market. That was my introduction, too. On the contrary, I would like it very much, and I think Brussels can help with that, especially locally. Addressing youth unemployment locally? I'd love to! Let Europe's resources be made available for this. Build more affordable properties? It would be wonderful if, instead of being limited by market thinking to build affordable housing, municipalities from Europe would be supported to build extra affordable housing, as the SP now does in Amsterdam. This is a problem in all countries, and that is where Europe can protect Europeans. So it's completely the other way around. Don't say the market comes first. Of course, Europe is much more than market. It's about values, it's about freedom. It is precisely in order to keep space at national level that we need to change Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u11	And this was also a very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u12	I'm trying to mirror what Mrs. Leijten is doing. It doesn't always work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u13	I see the opposite in the vote of the Labour Party. If we propose simply to regulate it nationally, which we can do well, with respect for differences between countries and then to work together, but not to let Brussels dominate, then the Labour Party actually consistently votes against. I am about to table a motion calling for countries to be given the freedom to say: no, we are shutting down the market, because we want local and national democracy to go for the interests of the market. I hope that Mr Asscher will co-sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u14	Of course, I'm going to take a very close look at that motion. There is indeed a difference between the SP and the Labour Party. We are very much in favour of such a European tax on those tech companies. We believe that this is easier and better and will be able to provide money for our society. The SP was against it. I was so sorry to hear that. That led to a yellow card, as it is called in the football terms we have introduced here. I'm sorry about that, but it doesn't matter. In the end, I think that we in the Netherlands are aiming for a great deal of the same goals. We believe that Europe can help and that you need it, precisely in order to protect our values. The SP sees that differently, but I'm looking forward to that motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u15	The European proposal for this digital tax was simply not good enough. Then you certainly shouldn't be there for it. At that time, we proposed that it be dealt with nationally. Then the Labour Party voted against. If something that comes from Brussels is not good, you should be able to say it and do better at national level. That's the freedom you need. Then you're not against taxing tech companies. No, that's what we're here for. It is precisely your proposal that you tabled this morning that we have already had two votes on a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u16	Well, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u17	I thought, today, Mr Verhoeven won't be joining us, so it's probably going to be a little quieter between Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u18	I have never seen Mr Verhoeven sit so calmly, so don't challenge him, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u19	He's not in. Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr Verhoeven is enjoying his birthday today, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yeah, I know. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u22	A compliment to Mr Asscher for a strong and passionate plea for a strong Europe, a Europe of values that also works for all the inhabitants of our continent. I totally agree with him. At the same time, we see that in many Member States, the level of support for the European Union is not always the same, because Europe, Brussels, sometimes works too bureaucratic or is not sufficiently transparent. One of the things that annoys many people, including in the Netherlands, is the moving circus between Brussels and Strasbourg. In its election programme, the Labour Party is very clear about this: stop moving and let the European Parliament meet in Brussels. But the list leader of the Labour Party in Europe, Mr Timmermans, recently said: no, let us, above all, continue to meet in Strasbourg. My question to Mr Asscher is: what is the position of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u23	Once again, thank you again for Mr Jetten's kind introduction. You often see that everything behind the "but" gets a little less nice. But the question is correct. The Labour Party believes that the moving circus should stop and so does Frans Timmermans. In the debate to which Mr Jetten refers, he said: it is a bit gratuitous to argue for it if the Heads of Government do not make the same speech, and they usually do not dare to do so against France. I would therefore like to bounce back on the question: let us together, Mr Jetten, D66 and Labour Party, impose Mark Rutte in order to call for the removal circus to be stopped in Brussels. Then something happens, otherwise it's a little gratuitous. I agree with you 100% that this should stop: it is nonsense, it costs money and it is bureaucratic. But we can change it by forcing our government leader here to give more of yours than mine at this point together and to speak out against that moving circus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u24	I think that this House of Representatives has spoken out against that moving circus many times. I'd be happy to do that again today. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister if he wishes to speak in favour of it again. But still, I feel a little bit...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u25	He has never argued for this in the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u26	Then we're gonna give him an extra push for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u27	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u28	I do feel a little bit that list drivers who are Spitzenkandidat for the Social Democrats in Europe find it difficult to just tell an honest story about what they think about this moving circus, to please everyone in Europe for the next job in Brussels. That is one of the reasons why support for Europe in a Member State such as the Netherlands sometimes lags behind. So I would very much like Mr Asscher to remind us once again of the PvdA's electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u29	Now, in Mr Jetten's introduction, there is a bit of un-D66-like populist fringe. 'A job in Europe' is a bit shabby and also below the level that I expect from Mr Jetten, whom I consider to be very high, by definition. What's going on? The leader of the Labour Party in Europe and the Netherlands has indicated that they are in favour of stopping the moving circus. But he said that it was very easy to talk if the Heads of Government did not even dare to talk about it in Europe. I think that criticism is justified. We can all say it easily, but we also know that the Prime Minister is going to answer later, and that is why he is not going to start talking to Macron about it. That's what's going on here, and that's what we can influence here. I think it is wonderful that Mr Jetten has made such a clear statement on this: together we are going to force the Prime Minister to raise this point at the European Council next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. It cannot be more symbolic: on 9 May, the Day of Europe, the high lords and ladies of the European elite meet in a picturesque village in Romania, the most corrupt country in the European Union, which is currently changing its laws, which means that politicians convicted of fraud and corruption go free. A good place to talk to the legs on the table about the future of the European Union. It can't be more symbolic, but it can't be more cynical. And something crazy is happening here. Because exactly two weeks later, the elections are for the European Parliament. People will then decide what future they want for European cooperation. Does the Prime Minister recognise that it is bizarre that the future is being cooked up before the population can indicate what it really wants? And when you think about the future, you also have to think about what it looks like now and look at the past. Is the European Union, as it now operates, good for people, animals and the environment? Or is it just about economy, trade and power? Is this a partnership that is good for stability in countries that are members? Who benefits and who delivers? Not on monetary gain, but above all on cohesion in societies, on fundamental issues such as the rule of law, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of organisation. Does this European Union give freedom to the people who work in the care, at the town hall, to people's representatives in this national parliament? If I answer these questions, the European Union will fail. We see for the first time that a country is leaving this cooperation, if it succeeds in getting out of the knuckles of the European Union. But we also see animals being transported throughout the European Union in a way where everyone is shooting tears in their eyes, but nobody seems to be able to do anything about it. Countries such as Latvia, Lithuania and Romania want their youth back, which is being used here as cheap labour. And Western countries are wondering why wages remain so low. In the field of youth care and home care, the short term is now due to the calls for tenders, not the long-term relationship, which is so important. Care is being marketed. One cannot protect the land from investors who ruin the housing market. The dogma of the freedom of capital prevents local representatives and directors from protecting the environment. Our capital city Amsterdam is going to fight the interference that Brussels is cooking up and this government says: we do want it. Services of public interest, such as public transport and energy, are brought to the market, because everything must be a single internal market from Bratislava to Breda and from Leiden to Lisbon. The idea that the European Union is a single market and that there is such a thing as a single people is not enough for us. It ignores the beautiful differences between countries: differences in history, language and culture. If we respect everyone's history, language and culture, then we must shake off that forced unity, because people feel lost and orphaned by that forced unity. They think that the power in Brussels can't be broken, but that's appearance. We can certainly opt for a European cooperation with respect for each other's differences. The SP would like to make it possible for countries to choose not to participate or not to participate in previous European agreements and to restrict the internal market if it harms local democracy. Is the Prime Minister willing to bring that in? I'll come back to Sibiu, that picturesque village in Romania. What exactly is that supposed to mean? The aim of the summit is to set the strategic agenda for the next five years. All plans, from the labour market to the military and from the euro area to the climate, have only one direction: more European deepening, and more direction and power in Brussels. There will be a final declaration, with intentions to be completed at the following summits. They are always called 'Guidelines' and 'Leadlines', but we all know that such a final declaration has great significance. Who's gonna draw up the final statement? Is that Romania? Is that the European Commission? What will the Netherlands bring in? And more importantly, will the Netherlands sign at the cross? Or do we say that we leave that final statement for a moment, because we are going to listen to the people first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to determine a course of action, that is what the Heads of Government are about to do. First, your objective must be clear. For the European Union, that is to guarantee the freedom, rights and security of life of citizens. The European Union is not there for politicians or businesses, but for citizens. That must be central to Sibiu. A solid rule of law is the foundation for citizens' freedom. But the rule of law comes down in the row of Dutch priorities. We do want to safeguard European values abroad, and I assume that means that outside the European Union, but that everything is wrong within the EU, remains somewhat underexposed. That is a pity, especially now that Romania is the host country. There are persistent concerns about the corruption and independence of judges in that country. I'm also worried about Hungary. Only nine other Member States argue with us for a hearing with Hungary, the next step in the Article 7 procedure. That says something about the rise of the wrong kind of solidarity. This is actually as damaging as the wrong type of populism that the Prime Minister is still concerned about. They keep each other out of the wind and they cover each other's misbehavior. This is bad for the citizens of the countries concerned and for the credibility of the European Union. My question to the Prime Minister is what he is going to do to change our friends in the European Union. And do not democracy and the rule of law in the European Union simply belong to the list of Dutch priorities for the strategic agenda, which will be drawn up in June? The citizens of the European Union must be protected not only from the arbitrariness of their government, but also from the whims of the market: a social Europe - Mr Asscher just spoke about it extensively. It is a theme that is not very common in the speeches made by the Prime Minister in Berlin, Strasbourg, Zurich. Why not? That's how I ask him. Doesn't he think it's important? One of the five priorities of the Netherlands is a strong and sustainable economy, which offers protection. How does the Prime Minister see this protection? The Netherlands is now focusing, as it seems, on completing the internal market, particularly through the further liberalisation of services. But sitting there, and the Prime Minister will agree with me, is also negative. A strong and sustainable economy offering protection also includes a social agenda: equal pay for equal work, minimum wage agreements, benefits, a fair tax system. Such a strong economy also means that we are more prepared than we are now for the new industrial revolution, where the US and China are miles ahead of the European Union. Germany and France have jointly drawn up a manifesto for a European industrial policy to change. The Netherlands signed a much vaguer Finnish letter, which stagnates in general about strengthening the internal market. What does the cabinet think of the French-German proposals? Finally, a strong and sustainable economy also involves reducing our energy dependence on countries such as Russia and Saudi Arabia. We were just talking about the Spitzen candidate of the European Social Democrats, but I found it remarkable that the Spitzen candidate of the European Christian Democrats, Manfred Weber, promised this week, when he becomes President of the Commission, to do everything possible to block Nord Stream 2. That's a big deal. Would the Prime Minister care to comment on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. European integration is a great success, because thanks to the European Union, we have been living in peace and security for decades with enormous prosperity. But to tackle the challenges of today's world, we need to make the Union stronger and better. Mei is an important month. We will then elect a new European Parliament and in Sibiu, Romania, Heads of Government will discuss their priorities for the future of the European Union. As far as D66 is concerned, there are five priorities on the table. The first priority is climate and nature. By 2050, the whole EU must rely on clean and CO-free energy. And much earlier, we need to levy a CO tax at European level. When I think of climate, I think of nature. There are still no binding agreements to stop the extinction of plants and animals. We see precisely that these binding agreements are the strength of the Paris Agreement. Next year the UN summit on nature will take place in Beijing, China. Is the Prime Minister prepared to work for a successful summit in Beijing from the European priority of a cleaner world? Is he also willing to make Beijing the Paris of nature? The second priority is migration. D66 wants a humane European asylum policy that provides a refuge for people fleeing war. This includes proper protection of our external borders, fair distribution of refugees across all Member States and joint measures for legal labour migration. Thirdly, I want a Europe with a strong geopolitical position. The Prime Minister already spoke fine words about this during his speech in Zurich. But that's not enough. Because between a wavering America and an assertive Russia, the EU must be able to operate decisively on the world stage. This means that we also need a European military force. Fourthly, Europe must be at the forefront of digital innovation. The US and China are way ahead of us. D66 therefore believes it is important for the EU to provide a broad range of technical start-ups. At the same time, we need to remain front-runners when it comes to protecting our privacy and we need to take harder action against the tech ics. Mr. Chairman. Fifthly, I want all Member States within the Union to respect democracy, the rule of law and our fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he intends to work on these five priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u36	That's a nice speech. Does Mr Jetten agree with the Labour Party that it is time for them to pay taxes when dealing with this problem? Unfortunately, this has not been achieved at European level, but is it not time to work together in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u37	I believe that it is indeed time for such a digitaks, preferably at European level, so that these big techs cannot play the Member States against each other in terms of: whether or not there is a tax or how high is that tax? But if it does not succeed at European level in the coming years, I think it would be wise if the Netherlands, perhaps together with a few other EU Member States, were to work on such digitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think it's a nice list, too. The D66 initiative to promote such a European nature policy in China is a good one. My question concerns the fair distribution of refugees. Migration is indeed a priority, including for the cabinet. But you can see in recent years that the reverse is always happening and that the Netherlands is not at the forefront when it comes to the fair distribution of refugees. In fact, we often say: we do not participate. It was once but never again, when we did it once. How does Mr Jetten qualify the policy of the Netherlands in relation to what he would actually like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u39	I think we have taken some good steps over the last few years, such as cooperation with Turkey. We were very critical of that deal, but you will see that in the end all sorts of terrible routes across the Mediterranean have been slowed down. We are also seeing a significant drop in unspoiled boats and human smugglers off the Libyan coast. This has been better dealt with by international cooperation. I agree with Mr Van Ojik that, once people actually reach the European continent, the distribution of refugees is still not good. In some Member States, we have to wait endlessly for the asylum procedure to start once. They often don't know what they're up to. It's gonna have to be much better in the years to come. I also think that we have learned too little from the last refugee crisis. If there is a new flow of refugees now, for example, I wonder how quickly Frontex, who is monitoring our external borders, can intervene and whether Brussels should first call off all the Member States with the question: can we please have more resources or people? On these issues, I would say: give the European Commission more flexibility and control in order to better protect the external borders and to be able to intervene more quickly if we are not able to manage such a refugee crisis properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u40	I also ask this because it is sometimes easy to do so, and I am absolutely not saying that Mr Jetten is doing so in order to say that this should be regulated at European level. For example, when it comes to the inclusion of refugees floating on ships in the Mediterranean, Member States have their own responsibility. The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany can say that we want to take in a proportionate proportion of these refugees. Waiting for a Europe-wide agreement to be reached by the European Commission with support in Europe is waiting until you weigh one. Hence my question. Shouldn't we just say as the Netherlands: we take on some of that responsibility, regardless of whether we can agree on a distribution key in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u41	If Mr Van Ojik asks me whether the Netherlands should set an example, my answer is absolutely yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned the five priorities that are important for D66 for the next five years in Europe. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to that. I also think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to have a discussion with our Finance Minister about the attitude of the cabinet in Europe. The Minister of Finance has recently tended to put a brake on all the proposals on the table. A little constructive way to use the Dutch negotiating position in Brussels. Being critical is of course good, but being stubborn is not. Minister Hoekstra is a brake on the European budget, while the cabinet still has very big plans for the Union. This is what we read in the state of the Union, which we have just discussed here. In order to achieve these ambitions, the EU budget must be sufficient, the Commission must be able to use it flexibly and we must start reforming. You cannot do that with a seven-year budget, a budget where the money still goes too much to the old-fashioned economy such as agricultural funds, and too little to innovation. It is good to see that the Prime Minister, with the enthusiasm of a convert, is committed to a strong Europe, but then we really must tell the whole story. If we want to achieve something with Europe, we will have to invest in it. Then we will also have to be prepared to take steps forward in this European cooperation once in a while. Just saying no in Brussels doesn't help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr Jetten is talking about being critical: that is allowed. He's also talking about being obstinate: that's not allowed. Apart from the difference in nuance, does he not think that our Finance Minister should stand up for the interests of the Netherlands and our citizens when it comes to whether a euro area budget should be added to the multiannual budget? The French and the Germans still want that. It will also be discussed at the summit in June. Do you think the Minister of Finance should not defend our interests? Of course, Europe is here. We are a member of it, and we must remain a member of it. But do you not think that our Minister should send a signal to large countries that are trying to recycle that euro area budget, while the Prime Minister took the position in December of 'no euro area budget outside the multiannual budget'? Do you not think it is logical that our finance minister, as some sort of foreboxer, should help the Prime Minister to maintain that position in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u45	It is, of course, the task of all the ministers who travel to Brussels to represent the Dutch interests there. If, for example, a country such as Italy fails to comply with all the budgetary rules, then the Netherlands must also give a firm opinion. But I'm more concerned with what attitude you're achieving the greatest effect. I believe that Clingendael, one of the leading international institutions, warned us last week that every time you travel to Brussels with a 'no, no, no' attitude and at some point become the chairman of the 'no' group, you will have no impact. Paris and Berlin are moving towards a euro area budget. They are moving forward towards a larger budget. If we want to influence this as the Netherlands and if we want to help determine where these funds are going, then we must take a constructive attitude. Then we must ensure that we, as the Netherlands, are in between Paris and Berlin, especially when the British are soon out of the Union. The present, very negative, stubborn attitude does not help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u46	This brings me to the pressing question to Mr Jetten whether he thinks that the euro area budget should be excluded from the multiannual budget, which is not the position of the Dutch cabinet. Or does he think that this budget can be accepted, and that it can start as a mouse but can later become an elephant, while our finance minister has got that elephant like a mouse in the multiannual budget? What is your position? Is there going to be a euro area budget outside the multiannual budget, as France and Germany want, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u47	The discussions on how to best shape that will be held in the coming period. The House of Representatives has given a clear mandate to the cabinet, but my plea to the cabinet is: with the present stubborn attitude you are not representing the Dutch interests, because the large Member States are pounding on and we are on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr Van Rooijen. This is your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'll ask the question again. Can you answer yes or no to the question of whether you want to have a euro area budget outside the multiannual budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u50	I think we should start within the multiannual budget. However, it is important for the European Union to be able to act faster in the event of a subsequent economic crisis and to ensure that such a crisis has much less impact and that we further strengthen the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'm going to a slightly bigger perspective anyway. I support the first sentence that Mr Jetten said here as a whole. When it comes to peace and security, we owe a great deal to the European Union. But he also noted in an interrupting question to Mr Asscher that the European Union's support is beginning to crumble in many countries. In my opinion, people like Guy Verhofstadt, who advocate an ever-expanding European Union, are almost a greater threat to acceptance in many countries than people who advocate, for example, some form of exit in many countries. A simple question to Mr Jetten is then: whose side are you on? Is that the side of Mr Verhofstadt or the side of a very large part of the Netherlands, which is in favour of making a pass on the spot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u52	I don't quite see that contradiction. In my view, it became clear today that a very large majority of Dutch people fully support membership of the European Union. That's what you've been seeing in other countries, too, growing tremendously lately. I think we all want Europe to work better. When I look at Brussels, I think it would be good if, for example, we could send individual European Commissioners home if they were not doing their job properly. Mr Mulder and I have tabled a motion on this subject in an earlier debate. We can give the European Parliament more power so that it can control the European Commission stronger and more decisively. I believe that this kind of improvement by the European Union will help to increase the support of the people of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u53	Then maybe I didn't explain that contradiction properly. What many Dutch people do not want is the further transfer of sovereignty. We welcome the cooperation that is now in place in Europe. When, for example, D66 comes up with a proposal on a federal police, a European FBI, or a call for us to think about a European army or an extra budget, we must certainly also talk about the sovereignty of our State. That's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u54	This is actually the most important level of discussion on Europe in this month's European elections. I believe that you are strengthening national sovereignty with better European cooperation. Crime doesn't stop at borders. Climate change doesn't stop at borders. Refugees cannot be stopped by a Mediterranean. As a small country, we cannot handle this alone. If you want to strengthen the sovereignty of the Netherlands, you need more intensive European cooperation in some areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr Jetten has just said that his attitude is damaging the negotiating position of the Netherlands. This is about his own finance minister in this coalition. You can't solve that by telling the Prime Minister, "Go talk to him." Those two are talking to each other all the time. We can assume that the Minister of Finance is doing so on behalf of the Prime Minister. What exactly should change in the attitude of the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u56	As far as I am concerned, that would be: constructively-critically, so do not start with a no in advance, but come up with constructive proposals on how to do it. I'm here to make that appeal to the Prime Minister. I'm sure he'll reflect on that in a minute. In other debates, of course, we are also critical of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u57	I find that a little easy when you put on those big pants. If you say that the Minister of Finance is damaging the negotiating position of the Netherlands, if you quote reports in that connection and say that it has to be otherwise, then you cannot say: I am curious what the Prime Minister thinks of that and we will talk to the Minister of Finance in other debates. No, then you have to think about what has to be different. Otherwise, it would be very strange if you shot your own finance minister here and sent him to Europe. What else can we do? Or were the words used by Mr Jetten in retrospect perhaps a little too big?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u58	No, this debate is about Europe's priorities for the coming years. That is what the forthcoming summit in Sibiu is about. I have mentioned a number of very large themes. Mr Asscher mentioned them himself in his speech. We both see a task for Europe to address major issues such as climate, security and a social Europe. As a Dutch government, you have a role to play in this. We are often critical and often not entirely in line with what is being conceived in Paris and Berlin. My appeal to the cabinet, especially when the Brexit is a fact, is that, as a crucial link between northern and southern Europe, we should be constructively critical and that we should make proposals on how we see it. Let me give you one example. In the discussions on the budget of Europe, we are shouting very loudly: no, that budget must not go up at all. But we do have a huge list of ambitions for Europe. In the meantime, the rest of Europe is talking about how that budget is being filled in and what is being spent, because we are standing on the sidelines calling no. I want the Netherlands to sit at that table, talk along and make sure that the money in the budget goes to the right subjects and not to those centuries-old agricultural subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr President, for the last time. I believe that we agree on the question of whether the Netherlands should always be constructive. However, I respond to Mr Jetten's criticism of his own finance minister, the minister of his own coalition, of his own cabinet. Mr Jetten says that the Minister of Finance is damaging the position of the Netherlands by being obstinate. In my view, it is then one of two: whether you are forcing us to act differently, we can think of a majority in the Chamber for that, or whether you apparently think that the Minister is not good, that he is not fit for his work and is apparently a less diplomatic negotiator. Otherwise, it's not that big a deal. My question is, therefore, what concrete changes need to be made to the attitude, views and voting behaviour of the D66-supported cabinet. Otherwise, I find it very cheap to criticize here, which actually has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u60	To be honest, I find it a little faint that Mr Asscher is now all sticking value judgments to the Minister of Finance. In my speech and in my reply to Mr Asscher, I merely said that the attitude can be more constructive and that in my opinion you achieve more for the Netherlands. That is a call I make to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. We do not only do this in this debate, we do so in every debate where the Dutch commitment is discussed in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think we know D66 as a europhile party. Mr Jetten also does not mind if he is called "eutrophy," but is what he is proposing sensible? If you look at research, recently from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, you will see that the Dutchman is very supportive of the European Union and thinks it is inevitable, but he does not want to pay too much for it. Does Mr Jetten's plea to increase the budget now help support the EU in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u62	I think we do not need the European Union on many issues, but we cannot, as the Netherlands, be alone in strengthening our economy, tackling climate change and tackling the migration crisis. A lot of Dutch citizens feel the same way. They look at the world and see an aggressive Russia. They see that China is gaining enormous economic influence and that Trump is wavering about how to deal with NATO. Many Dutch people believe that, if we want to preserve and strengthen our sovereignty, this can only be done through intensive European cooperation. If you have great ambitions, which the cabinet has also laid down in the State of the Union, then you must also be prepared to invest in them. And let us be clear: if you compare the European Union's multiannual budget with the Dutch budget, it is really not a huge amount. Especially after the British have left, we can live up to our ambitions for a social and just Europe with a little extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u63	It was actually a rhetorical question, because it doesn't help the support. As regards the question of whether the Netherlands is effective: this report, which we in the Chamber asked for and which I was allowed to accompany with Mr Leijten, says that the Netherlands is not very empathetic, but it is effective. If the headline would have been "The Netherlands sympathetic, but not effective," wouldn't we have been dancing the dolls here? The Netherlands must go on like this, mustn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u64	You certainly do not have to be sympathetic, but there are clear warnings in it: as the Netherlands, we should not be President of the 'no' group in Europe and we should maintain that constructive and critical attitude. That's a warning I wanted to give the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u65	I always heard Mr Jetten of D66 say that you need Europe to fight climate change and protect nature. In itself, I welcome the proposal to introduce stricter international agreements for nature, but this Europe is making trade deals that go directly against all climate objectives. Then D66 says: we think that is a good plan from the European Commission. The European Commission says, "Let it flow across all European fields." Then D66 says that we support it. I support the idea of doing more for nature, because that is a child in the discussion about the future of the earth, but what does D66 really do for it, other than saying that we need to have international agreements in 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mrs Ouwehand knows that D66 is also extremely critical of the use of satsumas. In a number of free trade agreements currently under discussion, such as the Convention with Canada, environmental, nature and animal welfare standards are already higher than in other trade agreements. Is it good enough? No, I'm sure it's not, but it's going the right way. My plea for an international convention for the protection of nature can help greatly in dealing with plastic soup, in replanting forests in Europe and beyond, and also in preventing the loss of all kinds of plant and animal species. We in the Netherlands can set a good example in our own country and we can work with the European Member States to protect Europe, but we also have to make binding agreements with the rest of the world so that we can appeal to large other countries on their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u67	Here's D66 doing two things. There are already international agreements on nature. That is the Convention on Biodiversity in the UN context. In 2010, the decline of plant and animal species would have stopped. They didn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u68	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u69	What does politics do? Then she takes on a new goal: 2020. They're not gonna make it. What's D66 doing now? 2030. In the meantime, D66 agrees with all the bad proposals made by the European Commission: ten years to go and a treaty with Canada, which means that this House's motion to stop imports of tar sand oil, the most polluting fuel in the world, cannot be implemented because the European Commission simply overruled it. That's bad for the climate and bad for nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u70	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u71	D66 supports this. What will change with D66 if D66 believes that we need to protect nature and the climate better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u72	The intention is to help the Convention on Biodiversity, to which Mrs Ouwehand referred, in Beijing at another UN summit. Until now, these agreements have always been non-binding. The countries do not really need to report on it and they are not called upon to do so if they do too little. The beauty of the Paris agreement, the agreement on climate change, is that we have made binding agreements in it. Let us learn from this and make the same agreement package for nature and biodiversity, so that we can appeal to other countries for their responsibility and we can also be taken into account if the Netherlands itself or the European Union itself is left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u73	Still, about that Clingendael report. I read that, too. That is not so much about the content of the Dutch position as about the strategy to get what you want. Now I have the next question to Mr Jetten. He referred to that report. Is his criticism particularly concerned with the Dutch strategy, rather than calling it "no" on the sidelines, but constructively at the table, or is his criticism about the content of the Dutch position? I would like to add my voice to Mr Asscher's question. In that case, it is also a matter of fundamental content, for which D66 is, of course, partly responsible. I had the impression that these two, the content and the strategy, perhaps in Mr Jetten's first contribution were a bit confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u74	With this question by Mr Van Ojik, I think I may have misunderstood Mr Asscher's question just now. I am indeed concerned about the strategy. As far as the content is concerned, we here in the Lower House decide which assignments we give to the cabinet in the commitment to European summits. It is then up to the cabinet to come up with a strategy to promote and defend these Dutch interests as effectively as possible. My appeal to the cabinet is: choose a more constructive attitude, in order to better manage the substantive proposals of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u75	This is enlightening, but this is without prejudice to differing views on the substance of the issues, such as the size of the EU budget, whether there are own budgetary resources, migration and climate policy. Is Mr Jetten saying that the line advocated by the Brussels cabinet is the line in which he is very much in agreement with the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u76	Partly. We have, of course, made agreements with each other, including in the coalition agreement, on the commitment of the Netherlands towards Europe. It is already much more pro-European than that of the previous cabinet. So that is a step in the right direction. But I am, of course, a member of the most pro-European party in the Netherlands and I would like to move on. I would like to move on to European defence cooperation. We call for a European FBI that can tackle international crime harder. I am well aware that there is not always a majority in this Chamber, but that does not prevent me from continuing to argue for this strong European cooperation. Then, of course, there will come a time when we will find a majority in this Chamber together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u77	All this calls for more European cooperation often comes across to me as: away with ourselves. The question I want to ask is actually a bit of an investigation: what does the D of D66 stand for now? The Amsterdam City Council unanimously adopted a motion, including the D of D66.......................................................................................................................................................................................... This would harm the interests of companies, which, incidentally, sponsor the D66 European party. What does D66 say here? Are you on the side of Amsterdam? Do you really think that they should be allowed to regulate the internal market, because it is good for their people? Or are you on the side of the government, which says: everything for the internal market; local democracy no longer matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u78	I myself come from local democracy. I've been a city councilman for years. As far as I am concerned, it is one of the most important levels of administration, a government that is close to the people. So you have to give municipalities as much power as possible to act properly, especially in a very tight housing market. I know the example of Amsterdam that Mrs Leijten cites, not good enough to answer specifically. I'm gonna go check that out in a minute. But I do think that Mrs Leijten poses one of the major challenges for the next few years. Because that single market, which the SP is always very much opposed to, has brought us a great deal of prosperity. So we shouldn't put it in the dirt. I think we should also save the internal market a little bit from ourselves. Market forces are not an end in themselves, but a means of ensuring that companies compete, that start-ups have the opportunity to intervene and that we can increase prosperity for all of us. If this market is out of control, if it does not work for the people every now and then, if we see a lot of people in Europe who are lagging behind and if economic growth is not seen in the wallet at home, then we have to have the debate with each other. How can we make sure that the internal market is sometimes somewhat restricted, so that it does work for the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u79	That is exactly the debate I am having with you. That is precisely the motion I am about to put forward, namely that we in Europe must enter into the debate on the fact that this internal market is damaging local democracy. 'Cause what's this motion about? It's about Amsterdam wanting to be about the interior of his city. Amsterdam wants to decide whether the next Nutella shop will be opened for tourists, or whether a butcher or baker can just sit there. Large companies know how to use these internal market rules to destroy entire inner cities, not only the housing market but even the layout of the shopping street, at the European Court of Justice. And what does this Dutch government do? It supports a proposal which will make it even more difficult to defend local democracy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u80	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u81	...against big companies that are destroying the community. Then I would like D66 to be on the side of Amsterdam, rather than on the side of the big companies. What does D66 say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u82	I will take Mrs Leijten's motion seriously in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The identity of the new Europe cannot and must not remain an economic and technical undertaking. It needs a soul, a consciousness of historical affinities and responsibilities in the present and in the future, and a political will to serve the same human ideal." These are the words of Robert Schuman, the spiritual father of Europe. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the era of the single market and the rapid enlargement to the east, it sometimes seems as if Europe has lost that soul, as if Europe is merely an economic and technical enterprise. The forthcoming meetings at the European Summit will discuss and decide on how to proceed with the European Union after the British have left. When we talk about that future, it is essential for Europe to find that soul, for our cooperation to be shaped primarily on the underlying values that form the basis of it: freedom, equality, solidarity and peace. But those values are under pressure. The most obvious is that it is visible in those Member States where the rule of law is even affected. The defence and promotion of these values therefore precedes the five priorities set by the cabinet as far as the Christian Union is concerned. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? In the crisis surrounding Greece and the euro, drastic measures have been taken to save our single currency. Shouldn't saving our common values be the same priority? If the Prime Minister agrees, what is the most effective way to protect and restore the rule of law in Europe? Mr. Chairman. The soul of Europe can be made visible in organising the internal market. How do we interpret freedom and solidarity? First of all, I want to know what is actually meant by deepening and strengthening the single market. For example, the cabinet has already identified the problem of barriers to the procurement of care by European procurement rules. Surely it cannot be the intention that municipalities should have to award European care that they need close by? Are there any such rules that the cabinet would like to see better enforced and implemented by the new Commission? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on this. Is this the internal market in services that the cabinet envisages? Do the European rules really need to be applied so rigidly, or is there room for own considerations? What is the relationship between freedom and solidarity? Then the united labour market. This leads to the repression of the Dutch and exploitation of Eastern Europeans in particular. For employers they are still more advantageous than Dutch employees because of all kinds of constructions. How does this relate to the principle of fair competition between workers? Is this the internal market we want? Then there is the euro area budget. Minister Hoekstra recently said that the Netherlands will not participate in the euro area budget if it does not meet the agreed conditions. And rightly so, because that is what we agreed in the coalition agreement: no further steps towards a transfer union. Those steps are likely to be taken now. So I ask the Prime Minister: are we just going to threaten not to participate in such a euro area budget, or are we really not going to participate in it? Mr. Chairman. The attacks on Sri Lanka have once again shown that Christians are a specific target of violence and persecution. It also shows the importance of respect for religious freedom, worldwide. Europe has a role to play in this respect. We are very interested in the implementation of the motion that called on the government to commit itself to extending the mandate of the EU Special Envoy for Religious Freedom. Does the Prime Minister have eyes on that yet? Finally, Mr President. Freedom, equality, solidarity and peace are the values that underpin our European Union. They are also of origin Christian values, in which the Christian Union feels at home. The Netherlands was one of the first six countries to form the basis of the current European Union. I call on the Prime Minister to recall these values to his colleagues at the forthcoming informal summit when we talk about the future of our Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Maeijer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u86	I hear Mr Drost say at the beginning of his speech that the forthcoming summits will decide on the future of the Union, that is, our future. Do you agree with me that it is very strange and absolutely not desirable that a statement should be adopted at the summit in two weeks' time, signed or at least supported on behalf of the Netherlands for a piece about our future, without any knowledge in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u87	That wouldn't be a good thing. I don't think this is the situation either. In a number of weeks, on 9 May, Europe Day, there will be an informal summit, where informally, with the legs on the table as someone has called it, there will be talk of all kinds of things that concern Europe. Here and now we talk about it in the Lower House, on behalf of all the Dutch. Then the Prime Minister comes back. A new summit is scheduled for June, the formal summit. In between, we will have to consider what was discussed in Sibiu. We will therefore talk about how to proceed in June and beyond. By the way, we still have the European elections. Perhaps it will still affect the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u88	That's right. However, I think you are forgetting an important step, namely that a statement will be drawn up at the summit in Sibiu, as in the annotated agenda, including on behalf of the Netherlands. So again my question: do you think that's a good thing? We have not been able to take notice of it. Nor do I expect us to see that statement in the debate today. So we're just not gonna see it. Afterwards, the Prime Minister returns with a statement on behalf of the Netherlands on the future of the Union, on our future, even before the European elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u89	Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister himself to consider the value of that statement on 9 May. We have just expressed our commitment. If all this is measured in broad terms in that letter, we will probably be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u92	I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a summit without a Brexit, a summit where the Prime Minister and his colleagues can take a look at a future beyond a two-week deadline. The meeting in Sibiu on 9 May was once again marked "informal summit" because no decisions were taken. But you bet your ass there's gonna be picket posts; poles, not poles. So the 50PLUS Group will also be hitting poles in this debate, also in the run-up to the European elections in May. In order to come straight to the door with a question to the Prime Minister: is the enlargement of the European Union planned on 9 May and later on 20 and 21 June, perhaps with an extra informal summit in June? I think that is quite logical when it comes to the future of the Union. 50PLUS considers that a European Union with the current Member States is enough for the time being. It must no longer be possible for countries that are not yet ready for membership to be admitted in the hope that they will gradually meet all the criteria. This is all the more so because EU countries also have the right to join the euro if the eligibility criteria are met. Mr. Chairman. I have said it on behalf of 50PLUS before: the European Union is not ready for further enlargement in its present size as an organisation. The inadequate functioning of the European Union is becoming increasingly clear when European action is needed, for example in dealing with immigration flows and financial crisis situations, or in taking action against Member States that are not so close to the rule of law and our values. Only if the EU can act quickly and uniformly on behalf of all the Member States can we consider further enlargement with solid, stable and democratic countries. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there will be no enlargement over the next five years and ongoing talks with candidate countries will be suspended. Is the Prime Minister prepared to commit himself to this in the coming weeks? I'd like a clear answer. The strategic agenda 2019-2024 will be formally adopted in June. This is an important guideline for the new European Commission to be formed. The Commission is facing a Europe where, according to Eurostat, by 2025, more than one fifth of the population are over 65 and more than half older than 50, i.e. 50-plus. That is why 50PLUS calls for a special Commissioner for Ageing to be set up in the new European Commission. It must review all European legislation and other policies in the light of the consequences of and for the ageing population, now and in the future. If the Prime Minister is prepared to commit himself to this, I ask him. In this way, the cabinet can make it clear that it must be about people in the European Union, not just about the market and the currency. This is in line with the government's view that the Union should focus on delivering concrete results for citizens on issues that they consider important. This is a good starting point, but according to 50PLUS the effects of this need to become much clearer in the policy. The Dutch must actually experience that the Union is primarily there for them and not just to make it easier for businesses to do business. Finally. Tonight at 6 p.m., the French President Macron is holding an extensive press conference. According to well-informed circles, he will announce, among other things, now that pensions will be indexed in France: réindication, i.e. reindexation. In a country with a deficit of more than 3%! It is an index of pensions up to €24,000 per year. That's twice our AOW. Perhaps our Prime Minister can explain to Macron why in our country, in our financially much stronger country, pension reductions threaten 5 to 10 million participants, young and old, up to 10%; not a reduction in taxation, but a reduction in pensions. Macron also withdrew the increase in the tax on pensions in December under the opposition of the yellow hoops. He will undoubtedly rely on strong leadership tonight. Here, it would be a strong leadership of our Prime Minister if he made a hard effort to get the pension discounts off the table. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr President, thank you very much. The future of Europe has been given considerable consideration in recent years. The European Commission has come up with a roadmap for a "more united, stronger and more democratic Union', and I quote a qualification "in which, of course, the Union was at the centre'. Serious plans for the future of the European Union have also been presented in several Member States and by many political parties. However, this often does not focus on an expanding Union, but rather on the Member States. The SGP has joined that line. The Member States are not there for the Union, but the Union is there for the Member States. We have also laid this down in an own-initiative paper, which the Prime Minister has also been able to take note of. We have uncovered a number of fundamental looming errors, including the phrase 'an ever closer Union' in the Treaty on European Union and in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Partly on the basis of this, integration has been deepened, strengthened and accelerated in recent years, while many citizens within the European Union did not feel at home and felt alienated. The danger is that this integration pressure will not glue actual fault lines within the European Union, but rather strengthen them. My first question to the Prime Minister is therefore: is he prepared to submit to the Council a proposal for revision of the Treaties and for the deletion of that phrase 'an ever closer union' from the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? I look forward very much to the Prime Minister's reply and I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to zoom in on one other point, also in view of the time, namely climate policy and, in addition, agriculture. The cabinet in Brussels is committed to zero CO emissions in 2050 and 55% reduction in 2030, with in our observation blinkers on all the issues surrounding the climate agreement. Is the feasibility and affordability of this in the picture for our society? A towering ambition without this insight creates heels in the sand and that really doesn't help. You are lagging behind when it comes to sustainable energy production, at the same time raising the European bar and then wanting to be a European leader: that is what is happening. That is why we are calling for more realism in this respect, also in relation to the commitment of the United States and China on this issue. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. By the way, I still have a slightly bitter aftertaste in my mouth because of the planned ban on pulse trawling. How is it possible, in your mind, to ask that Brussels stripes away fossil fuels with one hand and tears up a pulse beam exemption by the other hand? Can you believe that? The Chamber has requested the Prime Minister's commitment to that pulse corrugation exemption. My question is: what exactly has the Prime Minister done for the purpose of this pulse corrugation exemption and what is he still doing? Finally, one of the European priorities is to make agriculture more sustainable. A major threat to this is the undermining of the playing field by concluding trade agreements with countries with far fewer sustainability requirements. My question to the Prime Minister: is he prepared to send a critical signal on this issue at the informal summit? That is also a little in line with what Mrs Leijten has said on this point in relation to those trade agreements. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr. Chairman. The European Parliament's election recess has begun, and that is good news, because after the honourable Members have just killed Dutch pulse fishing in the last few weeks, there is no interference of EU politicians with defence, migration and our social policy. During the last session we were treated to his performance of the unofficial EU folk song, played on his harmonica, with a great sense of symbolism and show by an EP member. On 9 May, it will be another symbolic day: Europe Day. Some in the European Parliament, including Dutch parties, would like to make this a real holiday. And, of course, on that day, that is no coincidence, there is also a European summit in Romania. At the time of the election of the new European Parliament, the Heads of State or Government will soon discuss the future of the European Union, our future. The European Commission calls this summit "a crucial moment" where the Heads of Government "will launch a new dawn" where they will pave the way for a stronger, more united democratic Europe. Mr. Chairman. That little cat bell of no A4', which has been sent to the Chamber over this summit, suggests that it will be a glorified city trip with a good lunch. Which summit are you actually invited to, I ask the Prime Minister. All madness, Mr President, it is vagueness again, because the Commission believes that this meeting must be the culmination of a so-called reflection process on the future of the Union. That was in the wake of the referendum on the Brexit, with a real Commission set up by that same Commission #EUroadtoSibiu, which of course does not know anyone at all. A process the outcome of which was already determined in advance, because reflection or reflection is not devoted to the urophils. Arrogance, on the other hand. It is not appropriate, but rather proposals for giving up the right of veto, extending the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and an even more extensive multiannual budget to help finance their expansion drive. And recently Macron has also made a big deal of money by pleading for a European climate bank, a European health authority and a European social safety net. D66 was there to applaud and the VVD refused to oppose in principle. Mr. Chairman. So there is a lot at stake, because this undermining process has been going on for years. Among other things, with its own flag, currency, national anthem and the European Public Prosecutor's Office, it all seems that we are moving towards a United States of Europe, in which the Netherlands will be nothing more than a province. Undoubtedly, no doubt! We are about to hear from the Prime Minister that it is only an informal summit, without decision-making, and that there are no documents yet. So we can all have a good recess later. And then, at the end, there is another statement, with the Prime Minister's signature and approval underneath it, about the future of the Union, about our future, which haunts us for a long time, because with every signature we have almost lost a piece of sovereignty. We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u98	Last interruption, Mr Asscher. Mr Omtzigt is yet to arrive and Mr Anne Mulder is yet to arrive...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u99	You invite them all, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u100	It seems that you have offended Mr Mulder when I hear him like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u101	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u102	I don't know what happened either. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maeijer talks about arrogance and what is not right. I think it's her party that's proposing to do a nexit. Now 86% of the Dutch are against it. Isn't it a little arrogant of the PVV to risk all those jobs, just to keep saying that that's such a great idea, while you can see what's going on across the Channel? And the Dutch don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u103	Sure. I am talking about arrogance, about Brussels arrogance. Because about three years ago, there was a referendum on a Brexit, where the majority of the British population voted in favour. And instead of a pass in place and instead of some reflection or some reflection, proposals have only been made for more European Union. I mean, you're all talking about support here, but I think the urophils themselves are the biggest problem for that support they want. So certainly arrogance, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mrs. Maeijer is not going to answer my question. It is the PVV that, together with Forum, which is never there, proposes to do a nextit in the Netherlands; at least, Forum A versus Forum B... Here they are for a nextit. We now know that it costs an incredible amount of jobs, b that it turns out to be much harder than was claimed by the Brexiteers, and c that 86% of the Dutch do not want it. My question to the PVV is: are you now willing to listen to what ordinary Dutch people want, namely another, better European Union, and not that next?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u105	The PVV is for a nexit, and I also see that there is no majority for that at the moment, but perhaps it will be in the future. It doesn't affect my party's position on that next. We will continue to argue in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mr. Chairman. The question is, then, what approach does Prime Minister Rutte intend to take to that summit? The PVV has some suggestions for him. The Prime Minister could go there with the message that the Netherlands is not cooperating in giving up any right of veto, and that we will oppose any further step in framing the European superstate. Or to put the fist on the table for our fishermen: The Netherlands does not accept a ban. Or with the message that we need to cut our payments. Or the Prime Minister could take an advance on the enlargement debate, whether or not to open accession negotiations with countries such as Albania and Macedonia, and say that the Netherlands does not agree with any step in this direction. Or he could go there with the intention not to join and not sign a statement about our future, which the Chamber has not even seen. Or, even better, with the message that we are leaving the Union. I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you, Mr President. We have one Earth, and we have to do it with it. I can just predict that all the people in this world actually want that earth to remain viable for humans and animals. We can also assume that people like having something to say about their own decision-making about how their society is organized. If you look at the two important wishes of people now and in the future, we have to conclude that Europe is in deep contempt on all two points, a 3.5, I would say. The European Commission's aggressive trade policy is in no way compatible with any climate goal. So when it comes to the future of Europe, I ask the Prime Minister to call for a trade break. When you ask people on the streets what's the biggest problem of our time, no one ever says: there's too little trade. No, people are worried about climate change. If you continue to make deals with Brazil and Canada, which allow all kinds of highly polluting products to enter the European market, you know that Europe's climate plans are simply killing our aggressive trade policy. Mr. Chairman. A Europe officially enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, which is the Constitution of Europe, which has the sole aim of increasing production in agricultural policy, is not going to do well with its own climate objectives. A new common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027 is currently being discussed, and if you do not link it to the goals of combating global warming and protecting nature, we will wake up on 1 January 2028 with a huge amount of climate damage, because there is a lot of subsidy to the dairy farmer, one of the world's biggest warm-ups, and cause enormous natural damage. Then you have only two years left to achieve the goals for climate and nature by 2030. That's just not wise. So not 365 billion to that common agricultural policy anyway, and certainly not if you have not first tested how this policy can stop global warming and protect nature. The Prime Minister has called on all Dutch people to sow flowers for butterflies and bees if you have a garden or balcony.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u110	Seeing is buzzing!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u111	"Sowing is buzzing." Very good, we all have to do that. Of course, it is a bit crazy for this cabinet to support the European Commission at the same time, which says that we are leaving Bayer Monsanto's super-toxic Roundup all over Europe. There was a citizens' initiative. More than a million European citizens have begged the European Commission to stop this poison. What does the European Commission say? No, that's what we wipe our Brussels buttocks with. What did the Cabinet do? It supported the European Commission, with the support of both D66 and Forum for Democracy. The Democracy Forum supported Bayer Monsanto and the authorisation of arthropods and D66 does the same. Where are your ideas for a more democratic Europe? I don't understand. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Ukraine deal, and it's such a pretty joke. The Animal Party warned that the Association Agreement with Ukraine would ensure that battery eggs and puffs would flood the European market under European standards. No, no, no, no, no. We got hoarded. What happened? We are flooded with battery eggs and puffy chickens from Ukraine. Now everybody's mad. The European Commission went on to renegotiate because, apart from closing that deal, it had also made the mistake of releasing a whole category, which, of course, made smart guys say: oh, I'm leaving a piece of wing on the sternum and then I can export it to Europe unlimited. The Party for Animals has called on the Cabinet to ensure a reduction in imports. Minister Kaag said that this is not necessary and the motion tabled was rejected. The provisional agreement has been concluded and now we read in the paper that the Minister for Agriculture is furious about that agreement. I can imagine that, but you have to tell the European Commission in advance: we do not agree with this. Is the Prime Minister going to announce at the informal summit or in any way that the Netherlands is not in agreement with this agreement and that this agreement should be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u114	I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr. Chairman. On 9 May, Europe Day, there will be a summit on the future of Europe: symbolically very strong, but in substance it is all very limited. The disagreement within the European Union has been greater than ever since Schuman's declaration. I also find it a little ironic that Romania is in the middle of a debate. Romania, which has really taken zero action against corruption throughout its presidency and has not made any bridges between East and West. The Brexit crisis has not been resolved and the budgetary crisis with Italy continues. What is the commitment of the Netherlands in that statement, which we have indeed not yet seen a concept of? May I make the first proposal? Transparency. Together with the co-rapporteur, Mrs Leijten, I have been committed to this in Europe for two years. Twenty European Parliaments have said that this process should be much more transparent. There are now legal texts that we do not see. And when we see them, they're hired and then they have a direct effect in the Netherlands. This does not fit in with the basic principles of democracy. The Prime Minister is laughing at this or his texts, but we are going to have these texts later, because that can be done now, but can I guarantee that this transparency initiative will be one of the Union's priorities in the Sibiu Declaration or in the June Declaration? What are we going to do with the treaties, I ask Mr Bishop. Are we going to open them all up or are we going to get another spaghetti of European passer-by rules, delegated acts and inserts? Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. Spacious postponement is fine, but there is a report in the European Parliament which states that British MEPs cannot be forced to resign when Britain steps out of the Union in a hard Brexit. But then we have a mega problem. Because then we think we can appoint three new MEPs, and the British are not leaving. In fact, then, there is no decision-making in the European Parliament. I would like to make it clear that if there is a hard Brexit, all those British MEPs will leave at that time and, if not, what consequences this will have for Dutch law. Soon we will have a European election and we will not know how to interpret the results. That would be extremely clumsy. And are the preparations for the Brexit still good and continue? Because everything was prepared, but the Marechaussee couldn't handle Schiphol at Easter and the NVWA, with the ICT system that doesn't seem to work, couldn't cope without the Brexit in recent weeks. Could they have handled the Brexit? This is a serious question: how is Brexit preparation? The ECB last reviewed the policy in 2003. It's been a long time. The American central bank, the Canadian central bank, all evaluate what happened to the crisis and what they did to themselves. It is also up to the banks themselves to do so. Is the Prime Minister, also following the advice of former director of De Nederlandsche Bank Hoogduin, prepared to put on the European agenda that the ECB will review its own policies to see what lessons can be learned there? So not that we do that, but that they do that themselves? Mr. Chairman. Climate policy requires a national energy and climate strategy this year. Does it now assume 49%, such as the concept or 40% of European rules, or 55% if the Netherlands succeeds in raising it? When will that decision be made? I would like to see a timeline from when we decide. If we submit a certain percentage, we're stuck with that percentage. In that timeline, I would also like to see when the public consultation is mandatory under the directive and how energy poverty is dealt with. Because there must be a paragraph on that point. I'd like a response when we get those plans and what percentage we're going to choose. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u116	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u117	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u118	Let's see!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u119	Oh, my gosh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u120	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u121	Well, Mr. Chairman, you presided over this meeting! So...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u122	And what did Mr Omtzigt not say? That might be at least as interesting. GroenLinks has always been very critical of Nord Stream. We were overtaken this week by the Spitzen candidate of the European Christian Democrats, who said: if I become President of the European Commission, we are going to block Nord Stream. I was wondering what the CDA would say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u123	I'm gonna go get the wildcard, Mr. Chairman. I have not prepared myself well for the Nord Stream question and I am going to answer you in the second term, instead of making a whole speech here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u124	Mr Omtzigt is well aware that in European decision-making you are always asking, asking, asking, to which you get the answer: wait a minute, this is premature and then you are too late. So I'm a little surprised that the CDA is not using this debate to call on the Prime Minister to oppose the provisional agreement on Ukrainian chicken exports. Because we read in the media that at least one member of the cabinet is angry about it. That is strange in itself, because we had called on the cabinet to oppose that deal before the decision was taken, which was not necessary at the time. However, if the CDA is concerned about that, I would say: take the moment now and call on the Prime Minister to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u125	I think it's a good question to know what the government's up to. Then I will respond in second term to what the government intends to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u126	Then we wait for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u127	One question which Mr Omtzigt has undoubtedly prepared for is the following. 41 CDA leaders said yesterday in a manifesto that they are actually in favour of a euro area budget and also for a shock fund, a stabilisation fund within it. I would like to hear from Mr Omtzigt of the CDA whether the CDA supports and continues to support the Minister for Finance of the CDA and the Cabinet. And what does he think of that manifesto of those 41 prominent people who want a completely different course?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u128	I fully support the cabinet and in particular Mr Hoekstra, Minister of Finance, in this and call on him not to be more constructive, as someone else has done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u129	Does Mr Omtzigt think that on 9 May the Prime Minister can join a statement that we have not yet seen about our future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u130	That depends on the explanation. I thought that was a very fair question, and I am therefore very curious to hear that statement. Reference was made to the Rome Declaration, drawn up in March/April 2017. In the first part of that statement, if that is such a statement, I can imagine everything: we have been together and we think the Union is important. We agree, and you won't. However, I would like to know whether there are any substantial things in that statement. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what bandwidth he thinks he can sign such a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u131	Even more so: the first part of that statement to which you yourself referred, the Rome Declaration, indeed contains a lot of woolly texts. Then a few promises are made in one and a half A4. The annotated agenda refers explicitly to the Rome Declaration: it would become the same kind of symbolic statement. I thought it was strange to see that this annotated agenda is not even an A4 yet, and that symbolic statement almost four A4s. So it's not that short and concise. But if we reflect on that statement, do you think that's a good idea? Because I do not have the impression that we are going to see that statement next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u132	As long as that statement continues to explain what we have always said, namely that the euro area needs to function better and migration policy needs to be correct, that is possible. But I do want to know if new things will be added to that. The only thing I have asked for is transparency. That is why I think it is important for the Prime Minister to indicate how we could see that statement so that we can find some of it before it is signed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u133	I'm sorry, Mrs. Leijten. You've made up all your interruptions. You're very sorry about that, aren't you, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u134	Yes. She can have mine?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u135	No, no, no. Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. No, Mrs. Leijten. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to give everyone the same space. Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. No, Mrs. Leijten. I'm sorry. No, I'm not. That's the deal we made with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u136	I put a question to Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yes. It's kept up to date. That goes for everyone. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr President, thank you. On 9 May there will be an informal summit in Sibiu, Romania. That's been said. This summit is about the strategic agenda of the new European Commission for 2019-2024. No decisions are being taken now, but apparently there will be an explanation. I wonder what that's like. Is it true that no decisions are being taken now, but that they will be taken at the European Summit on 20 and 21 May? I hear it must be June. I made a mistake. We are talking about 20 and 21 June for the Acts. Then this European summit, and I believe that decisions are taken on the future of the European Union. Mr. Chairman. The European Union is important for our prosperity and for our security. We must preserve and improve them. Especially in an unstable world with China, the Middle East, Putin and, in his own way, President Trump of America, it is important that we all form a block. You can see that the support for the European Union is strong in the Netherlands. Mr Asscher mentioned that. The Dutch don't want a nexit. They want to stay in it. The Dutch see that it is inevitable and that we benefit from it. But the enthusiasm is not very great. We do not sleep in blue pajamas with twelve gold stars on them, and certainly not, as I say to Mr Jetten, if we have to pay more. So keep an eye on that support. We have already discussed the Dutch priorities for the coming years. We have done so in the debate on the State of the Union. The cabinet then set out its priorities: an effective migration policy and climate policy, and ensuring that we improve the internal market, because that makes us earn a lot of money in the Netherlands, about a month's salary. We take that for granted, but it is not that obvious. So let us improve the internal market so that we can all earn more and also divide more. It is also important that we have the institutions in order. I tabled a motion on this in the debate on the State of the Union. That motion dealt with the enforcement tasks of the European Commission. The European Commission operates politically and says, for example, when it comes to the Stability and Growth Pact, which is about the euro: France is France and that country gets away with it. But now we have seen Italy, so in short: these enforcement tasks must be removed from the Commission. How will the cabinet commit itself to this? Is the Prime Minister going to bring this up at the summit in Sibiu? We know what we do want, but are there any things we don't want? My group sees further European integration on a number of issues. QMV, majority decision-making, is being introduced for more and more areas, perhaps also in the area of social security. Does the Prime Minister see that happening? The VVD is not waiting for European WW benefits. I'd like a response. How are you effective in the European Union? We have already discussed this with Mr Jetten. The Clingendael report shows that we are doing well; perhaps not empathetic but good. We're in. We are not waiting, but we are taking the initiative, for example when it comes to the Turkey deal and the euro. It's in Clingendael's report. But now the British are leaving. We can no longer sit comfortably in that triangle France, Germany, United Kingdom. Maybe we should do more work ourselves, be more on top of it. Can the Prime Minister comment on this, given that Clingendael report, which is also positive about the Prime Minister himself? We must not forget that Prime Minister Rutte is leaving, because then the influence of the Netherlands will decrease. So much for the compliments. But what does that mean? Can we continue on the current road? Or should we take over the role of the British, permanent inhibitors, in any other way? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u139	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Mrs. Ouwehand has a question. Let's see what's going on, or else I'll have to deal with you too. Yes, Mrs. Ouwehand, you have another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulder has been able to prepare, because I would like to put the same question to the CDA. The VVD says all the time that it is such a shame that these chicken products come from the Ukraine on the Dutch market. But in the meantime, the cabinet has just agreed to that agreement. Now there's a preliminary agreement. I understand the VVD is angry. Does the VVD call on the Prime Minister to say: we didn't think it was such a good idea; we want to get rid of that agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u141	I wouldn't say that soon. If you have an agreement, you have to stick to it. But if some crazy shit happens because of that chord, that might be a reason to say something about it. But you have to keep your end of the bargain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u142	That's right. I think Mr Mulder does not know, but he does know my question. The Animal Party asked the Cabinet in time: hey, this agreement is coming up and it's not such a good idea, so let's not do it. The VVD voted against it. In other words, because of the mandate that was there, it became common, and we saw it coming: that import continues to exist. Then why is the VVD angry in the media after all? Is that to spawn the peasants? Because when you're angry, you have to say in time, "We don't want this"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u143	You should definitely do that. But we must also keep to the agreements that were made at that time. But I'm curious how the Prime Minister's going to react to this in a moment. And do we want to spawn people? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr Mulder referred to Mr Jetten as a Eurofiel. We have Eurocritical and Eurofelt. What exactly does Mr Mulder and the VVD agree with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u145	You actually have two types of parties that can get rid of the support base under the European Union. These are, first and foremost, the parties that are for a nexit. One is here, the other isn't. That's no use to you. I have just told you how much we benefit from the European Union, so you certainly should not get out of it. It'll cost you a month's salary. The second club, which can otherwise undermine the support base, is the club that wants to go on with that train by increasing the budget. I have just said what the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau says: the Dutchman wants to stay in it, but it is not that enthusiastic. That is precisely where the VVD lies: between the parties who simply want to get out, with all the consequences, and those who want to continue with more and more European integration. Pragmatically, Europe must solve the major cross-border problems, and we must keep our hands on the cut: there is the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u146	Well, that kind of confuses me, doesn't it? Then how do you explain the voting behaviour of your own VVD in the Chamber? I have a motion against extending the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Who are against this? D66 and the VVD. Then we have a motion calling for no veto to be given in any area. Against: D66 and the VVD. I can name a few more. Emergency braking procedure: VVD counter, D66 counter. Stopping the introduction of any new own resource: against the VVD, D66. So you are somewhere in the middle between Eurocritical and Eurofelt, but you are voting completely eurofelt. So I really don't understand it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u147	Now Mrs. Maeijer's incredibly inadequate. Last year in October, November, it tabled a motion to maintain unanimity on taxation and social security. He has wholeheartedly supported the VVD. I do not understand why Mrs Maeijer is so keen to push me to other parties, while we support her motions. She's doing herself a little injustice, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u148	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u149	That is one motion the VVD voted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u150	But it's a very important one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u151	Well, that's a very important one. Give it up for the VVD, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u152	I'm complimenting you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u153	I had two more. One concerned, in general, giving up the right of veto. That's what the VVD votes against. And the VVD is also voting against the motion on combating the surrender of the right of veto to foreign policy. You are voting completely europhile. It is quite wrong that you are somewhere in the middle between Eurocritical and Eurofelt. The VVD is simply Europhile and if it is not, Mr Mulder, you need to change your voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u154	Apparently, Mrs. Maeijer doesn't want me to support her motion, because then she won't be able to use it against me anymore. We did that: we supported her motion. I can't help it, but it is. Mrs Maeijer's motions are typical of a party that wants to get out: just everything against, against, against, against, veto, veto, veto and that's it. No, you have to be in between. We owe a great deal to the European Union. We need to improve it. Then you put yourself outside of every discussion by using a veto on everything, just as she says. For example, foreign policy. It can be useful if you want to take sanctions against a large country, which cannot block it from one country in the European Union. Then we have a strong foreign policy and we all have a block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u155	I thought it was a good question from Mrs Maeijer. Where's the VVD? But I understand now that the VVD wants to eat off both sides. Mr Mulder says: we are in favour of tackling the major cross-border problems facing the world, but by hand. Yeah, that's how I can do it. It's not the same thing. It costs money to tackle these major cross-border problems in Europe. I'd like to hear how the VVD intends to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u156	In the European budget, around 1,000 billion in seven years, a large part of the money still goes to agriculture and cohesion. It's really an agenda from the eighties. That's where you have to take the money. So not to increase the budget, but to set better priorities. I find it so disappointing in the European Union that it is always en-en-en, while the Dutch commitment is: less there and then you can do something about these big cross-border problems. It doesn't even have to cost so much. We're standing right there in the middle. Not black and white Europe is fantastic or we have to get out, but right in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u157	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u158	Solving major cross-border problems and hand-on-hand. And if you're gonna spend extra money somewhere else, you're gonna have to cut back elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u159	I come to the question where D66 and the VVD stand, because that's what it's about. Can you answer my question as to whether you support the position of the Minister of Finance in the euro area budget, or whether you call it stubborn and whether you are thereby clarifying within the coalition where CDA and VVD stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u160	I think the Minister of Finance, Minister Hoekstra, is doing well. He's busy in Europe. He created a coalition. He doesn't start saying no, no, no, but he's looking for supporters. I think it's a very good approach to finding supporters to achieve your point of view. I think we are also going to invite this Hanzeliga to the House of Representatives, the parliaments of those countries. These seem to me to be very good initiatives. Building coalitions makes you effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u161	Short and clear. So you support the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u162	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u164	That is also what I say as neutral chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u165	Good. A nice detail. Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u166	The Prime Minister has indicated that he needs ten minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u167	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-6.u168	Fifteen minutes. Then we can continue right after that. I hear protest! I can see it; there's a need for a little longer. Then I suggest we suspend for half an hour.
