ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is oral Question Time, and today we begin with Mr Markuszower's question on behalf of the PVV to the Minister for Legal Protection about the TBs who were arrested for trafficking in firearms. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We live in a country where our ministers seem to say out loud: anything must be possible in the Netherlands. The Minister for Legal Protection and his colleague for Justice and Security must, of course, catch criminals and lock them up as long as possible and make society as safe as possible. But these ministers barely pick up criminals. And if they do catch them, they'll get very low penalties. But that is not the end of the misery for the Netherlands, because once under the supervision of Sander Dekker it is only a real celebration for the bad guys. Today's question is about Herman D. That Herman D. is a very scary dangerous criminal with a criminal past from here to Tokyo, and he's only 24. Herman D. out of nowhere stabbing three innocent people in a nightclub. Three men are stabbed in the neck, chest and shoulder. One of the victims had an arterial hemorrhage and was almost dead. You'd say, "Now the Minister of his chair, now the Public Prosecutor's Office is going to work, now the judges are going to protect society and put this ticking time bomb under lock and key for as long as possible." But no, none of this. Herman D. only gets ten months in prison and a very light form of tbs. In fact, this means that only a few months after his assassination of three innocent civilians Herman D. ends up in a Michael Panhuis clinic. Those are clinics where anything can and can be done. How can it be that after the murder of Anne Faber with a criminal under the supervision of this minister, weapons could be traded from the clinic through three phones and a laptop? My second question is: can the Minister rule out the use of firearms traded under the supervision of the Minister on agents and on civilians?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. On Friday, April 12th, the police reported that an investigation resulted in a number of arrests in connection with firearms trafficking. It's true that one of the detained suspects was staying at the forensic psychiatric ward in Heiloo. The person in question was there in the context of a posting imposed by the criminal court with conditions. So that's a little different from making sure that he's available with coercion. One of the conditions imposed on him was the inclusion in an FPA, where both the clinic, probation and the Public Prosecutor's Office are supervising. That's the way things are going there. There's a criminal investigation going on right now. This means that I must exercise some restraint when it comes to the facts. In addition, there is a precise factual account that is always drawn up by the most involved organisations in this type of incident, in this case the probation and the fpa. During last week's work, your Chamber asked me to write a letter explaining these facts before the summer recess. My proposal would be to follow up on this. I therefore take into account the results of the fact-finding complex that is currently being prepared, as far as it is permitted by the criminal investigation that is ongoing and that I do not wish to harm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	A very official answer, but not really an answer. I asked two questions and got zero answers. It goes even further. It's worse than that. In the debate on how it could happen that Michael Panhuis got so many freedoms that he could kill Anne Faber, I warned the minister. I told him that if he doesn't close down the failing clinics, fire the failing treatment staff, send the failing prison directors and parole officers out, in short, if he doesn't improve the sick culture in his organization, the Netherlands will be confronted with this kind of misery and danger much more often. Even today, the non-answers I have just received show that the Minister is not prepared to pass a large broom through his organization as soon as possible. Even worse: apparently, the Minister has no idea what is going on in his prisons and clinics. I just heard that like us, he had to learn from the media what went wrong in his clinics. Then perhaps the Minister will soon put some patches on his failing policy or, as I hear today, not even that. He's waiting for a story of fact or something to be written. Maybe that'll come in a few months. Just a quick question. Can the Minister promise that he will today withdraw all the engagements and all the freedoms of dangerous criminals until further notice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. One specific question. Where there is danger and great risk, people should not be given any freedoms at all. So there's no question of moving in. It's a suspect in the arms trade who was in an FPA. In general, that is a clinic where there are more freedoms. For example, possession of phones and computers and their use are part of the freedoms that someone has. It's not a convict sitting at the end of his sentence. We're dealing with TBs with terms and conditions. Unlike a prison sentence, this is not a deprivation of liberty but a restriction of freedom. That is without prejudice to the fact that I, too, would like to know what happened in this case. That's why I'm waiting to see what both the clinic and the parole board come up with. This can be another reason to follow up and do a follow-up study. I think that Mr Markuszower's conclusion that supervision here would have been inadequate is a little premature. We don't know that. In the clinic, certain freedoms can be revoked if things have gone wrong or if someone has not complied with agreements or rules. In fact, it is possible to see if someone should go to a heavier level. Only, if you want to do that, you have to go back to court. It's not like an inmate can get someone from an fpa to an fpk or an fpc. You have to go back to the judge who imposed the terms. In order to know exactly what happened here, we must first look at what happened here and wait for the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	My conclusion is, of course, not premature at all. Under the supervision of this minister, large criminals are provided with illegal weapons. At the taxpayer's expense, Herman D. uses his prison as his office, but you, Minister Sander Dekker, give him a laptop and three phones. He deals in weapons. And then the minister here in this Chamber says that my conclusion is premature! In any case, my conclusion today is that your labby policy puts the Dutch at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have a follow-up question for Minister Dekker. Of course, I too am surprised that someone has access to three telephones. Even more worrying is that I don't know if this is an incident. Can the Minister give us a guarantee that this is an incident? I'm afraid he can't, and so my question is: what is the Minister going to do to do further research, not only in Heiloo, but also in other places? And when is he going to inform us about the results of that investigation, which hopefully leads to a strengthening of supervision? That would be the least of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	The last one before the summer. In any case, I would like to put on the table what we can share with you within the limits of the criminal investigation. The first is about the regime within a forensic-psychiatric department. That's a half-open clinic where there are also justitiables, and by the way people with closed ibs. Depending on the stage of treatment, they are given certain freedoms. For part of the day they are also present outside the clinic. This means that there is no very strict regime in this kind of institution, such as in the prison system or in closed TBs institutions, where you can say that you do not want phones or computers inside. Because once again, this is a half-open clinic and the patients, the justitives who sit there for much of the day are also not physically present in the clinic, but outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	When I read this, I found it shocking that it is still so grossly underestimated what danger people can pose. This must be discussed with both the judiciary and the prosecutors, because this undermines the whole sense of security in our rule of law, including with regard to people who are punished. Can I ask the Minister to include in the investigation how someone has been given a suspended sentence and done something, but that these conditions are not even imposed? Then we're not doing very well in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	This must certainly be taken into account. How'd that go? Have the conditions been met? If not, what have we done, according to probation and the Public Prosecutor's Office, to take appropriate measures, for example by asking for a higher level of security? We now assume that none of that has happened. My point is: let's just put it right here, because that is a premature assumption. I would very much like to enter into this discussion with you, but on the basis of a complete overview of the facts, so that we can take a good look at what probation, Public Prosecutor's Office and clinic have done here and whether that has been sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Minister uses the term "half-open clinic." A half-open clinic does not justify the full free use of data carriers such as telephones and so on. We are concerned about the safety culture in the institution in question. Is the Minister prepared to have an independent investigation, such as an inspection or another forensic investigation, into how this could have happened in the clinic in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	That depends. By default, we ask the organisations involved in this type of incident first to map and investigate this themselves. Then the inspection will check it out. If the facts give rise to this, the inspection may, if necessary, decide to fly itself in. It may also be very good that all kinds of measures have been taken and that the inspection actually says that there has been a proper act, not saying that there is no very serious criminal offence. In this case, a suspect who was in that clinic was arrested, but it may well be that the persons involved in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the probation were indeed doing well during the journey. Then it may be that the inspection does not give rise to further investigation. I would like to take it one step at a time: first ensure that the clinic, the inspection and the parole board gather that together and then leave it to the inspection whether it is responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	Of course, arms trafficking is always a criminal thing, but when it comes to someone who is in the clinic as a result of committing a criminal offence, there is something else going on: then it is also a long nose to the rule of law. Does the Minister also want to see whether there could be any more serious criminal circumstances and whether it still calls for tightening up of our rules, since from a clinic after committing a criminal offence that kind of activity has been carried out? Does he want to look at that aspect too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	Sure, because that is also one of the things that will have to happen. Quite apart from the question of whether or not this suspect is eventually prosecuted and is sentenced to the offence for which he was arrested, he also has to go through a route in which, if he has not complied with the conditions, there is clearly a case in a clinic where you are dealing with things that are not allowed to act in criminal matters, then that certainly has a consequence for the previous sentence he has to serve, in the sense of an increase in sentence as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you.
